L/Lv. 0« 



Annual Report of the Board of Regents 

of the 



SMITHSONIAN 



INSTITUTION 




PUBLICATION 4354 



Shmving the Operations^ Expenditures^ and Condition of the 
Institution for the Year Ended June 30 

1958 



UNITED STATES 

GOVEKNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON : 1959 



For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. GoTernment Printing Office 
Washington 25 D.C. Price $3.75 cent* 



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, December 31, 1958. 

To the Congress of the United States : 

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the 
United States, I have the honor, on behalf of the Board of Regents, 
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi- 
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended 
June 30, 1958. I have the honor to be, 
Respectfully, 

Leonard Carmichael, Secretaiy. 



CONTENTS 



Page 

List of officials v 

General statement 1 

The Establishment 4 

The Board of Regents 5 

Finances 5 

Visitors 6 

Lectures 7 

Bio-Sciences Liformation Exchange 7 

Summary of the year's activities of the Institution 7 

Reports of branches of the Institution: 

United States National Museum 12 

Bureau of American Ethnology 46 

Astrophysical Observatory 82 

National Collection of Fine Arts 95 

Freer Gallery of Art 110 

National Air Museum 126 

National Zoological Park 140 

Canal Zone Biological Area 180 

International Exchange Service 187 

National Gallery of Art 196 

Report on the library 210 

Report on publications 215 

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents . 223 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



The sun's energy, by Farrington Daniels 237 

Sun, sea, and air, by Roger Revelle 251 

Rocketry, by Donald Cox and Michael Stoiko 261 

Fresh water for arid lands, by David S. Jenkins 285 

The abundance of the chemical elements, by Hans E. Suess 307 

Earthquakes and related sources of evidence on the earth's internal 

structure, by K. E. Bullen 319 

The Darwin- Wallace centenary, by Sir Gavin de Beer 333 

Does natural selection continue to operate in modern mankind? by 

Theodosius Dobzhansky and Gordon Allen 359 

The ecology of man, by Paul B. Sears 375 

The sea otter, by Karl W. Kenyon 399 

Screwworm eradication: Concepts and research leading to the sterile-male 

method, by E. F. Knipling 409 

Narrative of the 1958 Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition, by 

Waldo L. Schmitt 419 

m 



IV AjSTNUAL report SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Page 

Tools makyth man, by Kenneth Oakley 431 

The backwash of the frontier: The impact of the Indian on American 

culture, by A. Irving Hallowell 447 

The restored Shanidar I skull, by T. D. Stewart 473 

Acculturation in the Guajira, by Raymond E. Crist 481 

The Braced-up Cliff at Pueblo Bonito, by Neil M. Judd 501 

A century of American Indian exhibits in the Smithsonian Institution, 

by John C. Ewers 513 

The childhood pattern of genius, by Harold G. McCurdy 527 

The New England porringer: An index of custom, by Anthony N. B. 

Garvan 543 



LIST OF PLATES 



Secretary's Report: 

Plate 1 6 

Plates 2-5 70 

Plates 6, 7— 110 

Plate 8 134 

Plates 9, 10 166 

Plates 11-14 198 

Rocketry (Cox and Stoiko): Plate 1 278 

Fresh water for arid lands (Jenkins) : Plates 1-5 294 

Abundance of chemical elements (Suess): Plates 1-4 310 

Ecology of man (Sears) : Plates 1-10 390 

Sea otter (Kenyon): Plates 1-6 406 

Screw-worm eradication (Knipling): Plates 1-6 414 

Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition (Schmitt): Plates 1-10 422 

Backwash of the frontier (Hallowell): Plate 1 447 

Plates 2-8 454 

Shanidar I skull (Stewart): Plates 1-13 478 

Acculturation in the Guajira (Crist): Plates 1-8 486 

Braced-up cliff at Pueblo Bonito (Judd): Plates 1-6 502 

American Indian exhibits (Ewers): Plates 1-8 518 

New England porringer (Garvan) : Plates 1-8 550 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

June 30, 1958 

Presiding Ofliccr ex offlcio.—BwmnT D. Eisenhower, President of the United 

States. 
Chancellor.— EAnj. Waeken, Cliief Justice of the United States. 
Members of the Institution: 

DwiGHT D. Eisenhower, President of the United States. 

Richard M. Nixon, Vice President of the United States. 

Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States. 

John Foster Dulles, Secretary of State. 

Robert B. Anderson, Secretary of the Treasury. 

Neil H. McElroy, Secretary of Defense. 

William P. Rogers, Attorney General. 

Abthtjr B. Summerfield, Postmaster General. 

Fred A. Seaton, Secretary of the Interior. 

Ezra Taft Benson, Secretary of Agriculture. 

Sinclair Weeks, Secretary of Commerce. 

James P. Mitchell, Secretary of Labor. 

Marion B. Folsom, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, 
Regents of the Institution: 

Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor. 

Richard M. Nixon, Vice President of the United States. 

Clinton P. Anderson, Member of the Senate. 

Leveeett Saltonstall, Member of the Senate. 

H. Alexander Smith, Member of the Senate. 

0\'ERTON Brooks, Member of the House of Representatives. 

Clarence Cannon, Member of the House of Representatives. 

John M. Vorys, Member of the House of Representatives. 

John Nicholas Brown, citizen of Rhode Island. 

Arthur H. Compton, citizen of Missouri. 

Robert V. Fleming, citizen of Washington, D.C. 

Crawford H. Greenewalt, citizen of Delaware. 

Caryl P. Haskins, citizen of Washington, D.C. 

Jerome 0. Hunsaker, citizen of Massachusetts. 
Executive Committee. — Robert V. Fleming, chairman, Clarence Cannon, Caryl 

P. Haskins. 
Secretary. — Leonard Caemichael. 

Assistant Secretaries. — J. L. Keddy, A. Remington Kellogg. 
Administrative assistant to the Secretary. — Mrs. Louise M. Pearson. 
Treasurer — T. F. Clark. 

Chief, editorial and publications division. — Paul H. Oehser. 
Librarian. — Ruth E. Blanchard. 
Buildings Manager. — L. L. Oliver. 
Chief, personnel division. — J. B. Newman, 
Chief, supply division. — A. W. Wilding. 
Chief, photographic laboratory. — F. B. Kestner. 



VI AiSn^UAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Director. — A. Remington Kellogg. 
Administrative Assistant. — Mrs. Mabel A. Byrd. 
Registrar. — Helena M. Weiss. 

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 

Director. — A. Remington Kellogg, acting. 

Department of Anthropology : F. M. Setzler, head curator. 

Division of Archeology: W. R. Wedel, curator; Clifford Evans, Jr., Ralph 

S. Solecki, associate curators. 
Division of Ethnology: S. H. Riesenberg, acting curator; R. A. Elder, Jr., 

assistant curator. 
Division of Physical Anthropology: T. D. Stewart, curator ; M. T. Newman, 

associate curator. 
Department of Zoology : Herbert Friedmann, acting head curator. 

Division of Mammals: D. H. Johnson, curator; C. O. Handley, Jr., H. W. 

Setzer, associate curators. 
Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; H. G. Deignan, associate 

curator. 
Division of Reptiles and Amphibians: Doris M. Cochran, curator. 
Division of Fishes: L. P. Schultz, curator; E. A. Lachner, W. R. Taylor, 

associate curators. 
Division of Insects: J. F. G. Clarke, curator; O. L. Cartwright, R. E. Crabill, 

W, D. Field, associate curators; Sophy Parfin, junior entomologist. 
Division of Marine Invertebrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; F. M. Bayer, 

T. E. Bowman, C. E. Cutress, Jr., associate curators. 
Division of Mollusks: H. A. Rehder, curator; J. P. E. Morrison, associate 

curator. 
Department of Botany (National Herbarium) : J. R. Swallen, head curator. 
Division of Phanerogams: L. B. Smith, curator; R. S. Cowan, E. C. Leonard, 

Velva E. Rudd, E. H. Walker, associate curators. 
Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator. 
Division of Grasses: J. R. Swallen, curator. 
Division of Cryptogams: C. V. Morton, acting curator; P. S. Conger, M. E. 

Hale, Jr., associate curators ; R. R. Ireland, Jr., assistant curator. 
Department of Geology : G. A. Cooper, head curator. 

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: Q. S. Switzer, curator; R. S. Clarke, 

Jr., P. E. Desautels, E. P. Henderson, associate curators. 
Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: G. A. Cooper, 

curator ; R. S. Boardman, P. M. Kier, associate curators. 
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle, 

P. P. Vaughn, associate curators. 

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 

Director. — F. A. Taylor. 
Assistant Director. — J. C. Ewers. 
Administrative assistant. — W. E. Boyle. 
Chief exhibits specialist. — J. B. Anglim. 

Zoological exhibits specialist. — W. L. Brown. 

Exhibits specialists. — B. S. Bory, R. O. Hower, B. W. Lawless, Jr. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT VII 

Depaetment of Science and Technology : R. P. Multhauf, head curator. 
Division of Physical Sciences: R. P. Multhauf, curator. 
Division of Mechanical and Civil Engineering: E. S. Ferguson, curator; 

E. A. Battison, associate curator; R. M. Vogel, assistant curator. 
Division of Transportation: H. I. Chapelle, curator ; K. M. Perry, associate 

curator. 
Division of Agriculture and Wood Products: W. N. Watkins, curator; E. C. 

Kendall, associate curator. 
Division of Electricity: W. J. King, Jr., acting curator. 
Division of Medical Sciences: G. B. Griffenhagen, curator; J. B. Blake, 

associate curator. 
Department of Abts and Manufactures : P. W. Bishop, head curator. 
Divisi&n of Textiles: Grace L. Rogers, acting curator. 
Division of Ceramics and Glass: P. V. Gardner, acting curator. 
Division of Oraphio Arts: Jacob Kainen, curator; A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., 

associate ciirator ; F. O. Griffith, III, assistant curator. 
Division of Industrial Cooperation: P. W. Bishop, curator. 
Department of Civil History : A. N. B. Garvan, head curator ; Mrs. Margaret 

C. Clark, assistant curator. 
Division of Political History: W. E. Washburn, acting curator; Mrs. Mai*- 

garet B. Klapthor, associate curator ; C. G. Dorman, Mrs. Anne W. 

Murray, assistant curators. 
Division of Cultural History: C. M. Watldns, curator; G. C. Lindsay, asso- 
ciate curator ; Rodris C. Roth, assistant curator. 
Division of Philately and Postal History: F. J. McCall, acting cui-ator. 
Division of numismatics: Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, curator; Mrs. Elvira 

Clain-Stefanelli, assistant curator. 
Department of Armed Forces History : M. L. Peterson, head curator. 

Division of Military History: E. M. Howell, acting curator; C. R. Goins, Jr., 

assistant curator. 
Division of Naval History: M. L. Peterson, curator. 

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

Director. — F. H. H. Roberts, Jr. 
Anthropologist. — H. B. Collins, Jr. 
Ethnologist. — W. C. Sturtevant. 

River Basin Surveys. — F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director; A. L. Stephenson, Chief, 
Missouri Basin Project. 

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

Director. — F. L. Whipple. 

Associate Directors. — J. A. Hynek, T. E. Sterne. 

Assistant Director. — J. S. Rinehart. 

Astrophysicists. — R. J. Davis, E. L. Fireman, L. G. Jacchia, Max Krook, F. B. 

Riggs, Jr., C. A. Whitney. 
Mathematician. — R. E. Briggs. 

Table Mountain, Calif., field station. — A. G. Froiland, physicist. 
Division of Radiation and Organisms : 

Chief.— W. H. Klein, acting. 

Plant physiologists. — V. B. Elstad, Leonard Price, Mrs. Alice P. Withrow. 

Electronic engineer. — J. H. Harrison. 

Instrument maker. — D. G. Talbert. 



VIII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 

Director. — T. M. Beggs. 

Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service. — Mrs. Anuemarie H. Pope, Chief. 

FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Director. — A. G. Wenley. 

Assistant Director. — J. A. Pope. 

Associate in Near Eastern art. — Richard Ettinghausen. 

Associate in technical research. — R. J. Gettens. 

Associate curators. — J. F. CaMll, H. P. Stem. 

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM 
Advisory Board: 

Leonard Carmichael, Chairman. 

Maj. Gen. Reuben C. Hood, Jr., U.S. Air Force. 

Rear Adm. R. E. Dixon, U.S. Navy. 

Lt. Gen. James H. Doolittle. 

Grover Loening. 
Director. — P. S. Hopkins. 
Head curator and historian. — P. E. Garber. 
Associate curators. — L. S. Casey, W. M. Male. 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

Director. — T. H. Reed. 

Associate Director. — J. L. Grimmer. 

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA 
Resident Naturalist. — M. H. Moynihan. 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 
Chief. — J. A. Collins. 

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

TrUrStees: 

Earl Wakren, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman. 

John Foster Dulles, Secretary of State. 

Robert B. Anderson, Secretary of the Treasury. 

Leonard Carmichael, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

F. Lam MOT Belin. 

Duncan Phillips. 

Chester Dale. 

Paul Mellon. 

Rush H. Kress. 
President. — Chester Dale. 
Vice President. — F. Lamont Belin. 
Secretary-Treasurer. — Huntington Cairns. 
Director. — John Walker. 
Administrator. — Ernest R. Feidleb. 
General Counsel. — Huntington Caibns. 
Chief Curator. — Perry B. Cott. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



rx 



Honorary Research Associates, Collaborators, and Fellows 

Office of the Secretary 

Jolin E. Graf 

United States National Museum 

MUSEUM OF natural HISTORY 



Anthropology 



Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood. 
N. M. Judd, Archeology. 
H. W. Krieger, Ethnology. 



Paul Bartsch, Mollusks. 

J. Bruce Bredin. 

M. A. Carriker, Insects. 

C. J. Drake, Insects. 
Isaac Ginsberg, Fishes. 

D. C. Graham. 

Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., Marine 

Invertebrates. 
A. B. Howell, Mammals. 
Laurence Irving, Birds. 
W. L. Jellison, Insects. 



Mrs. Agnes Chase, Grasses. 
E. P. Killip, Phanerogams. 



R. S. Bassler, Paleontology. 
R. W. Brown, Paleobotany. 
Preston Cloud, Invertebrate 

Paleontology. 
C. Wythe Cooke, Invertebrate 

Paleontology. 



Betty J. Meggers, Archeology. 

W. W. Taylor, Jr., Archeology. 

W. J. TobiB, Physical Anthropology. 



Zoology 



Allen Mcintosh, Mollusks. 
J. P. Moore, Marine Invertebrates. 
C. F. W. Muesebeck, Insects. 
W. L. Schmitt. 

Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology. 
C. R. Shoemaker, Marine Invertebrates, 
li. E. Snodgrass, Insects. 
T. E. Snyder, Insects. 
Alexander Wetmore, Birds. 
Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson, Copepod 
Crustacea. 



Botany 

F. A. McClure, Grasses. 
J. A. Stevenson, Fungi. 

Geology 

J. B. Knight, Invertebrate Paleon- 
tology. 

J. B. Reeside, Jr., Invertebrate Paleon- 
tology. 

W. T. Scballer, Mineralogy. 



MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 

Arts and Manufactures 
F. L. Lewton, Textiles. 

History 



Elmer C. Herber. 

F. W. MacKay, Numismatics. 



Carroll Quigley, Political History. 
P. A. Straub, Numismatics. 



J. P. Harrington. 
Sister M. Inez Hilger. 



Bureau of American Ethnology 

M. W. StirUng. 
A. J. Waring, Jr. 



X ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Astrophysical Observatory 
C. G. Abbot. 



Oleg Grabar. 

Grace Dunham Guest 



Frederick C. Crawford. 



W. M. Mann. 



C. C. Soper. 



Freer Gallery of Art 



Mas Loehr. 
Katherine N. Rhoades. 



National Air Museum 

I John .1. Ide. 

National Zoological Park 

I E. P. Walker. 

Canal Zone Biological Area 
I James Zetek. 



ASTROPHYSICAL 
OBSERVATORY 

CAMBRIDGE, MASS 



on] 

AIN, 



UPPER 
ATMOSPHERE 



SATELLITE 
TRACKING 
PROGRAM 



CANAL ZONE 

BIOLOGICAL 

AREA 



INTERNATIONAL 
EXCHANGE 
SERVICE 



METEORITICS - 



RADIATION & 
ORGANISMS 
WASHINCrON.OC 



.OCY 



'ARTMENT OF 
'IL HISTORY 



POLITICAL 
HISTORY 



CULTURAL 
HISTORY 



'HILATELY 1 
iflSTAL HISTORY 



DEPARTMENT OF 

ARMED FORCES 

HISTORY 




1 








MILITARY 
HISTORY 


- 










NAVAL 
HISTORY 


- 










AIR FORCE 
HISTORY 


J 



SMITHSONIAN 
MUSEUM 
SERVICE 



BIO-SCIENCES 

INFORMATION 

EXCHANGE 



SERVICE 
DIVISIONS 



3 



PHOTOGRAPHIC 
LABORATORY 



EDITORIAL & 
PUBLICATIONS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

ORGANIZATION CHART 



OFFICE 

OF THE 

SECRETARY 



BuntAU OF 
ETHNOLOGY 












^3 






oA-^.< Q.^^^^ 









OBSERVATORY 



E3- 









H 






Oi - 

is t.- 



..J, 



Report of the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution 

LEONARD CARMICHAEL 

For the Year Ended June 30, 1958 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Gentlemen : I have the honor to submit a report showing the activ- 
ities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches 
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958. 

GENERAL STATEMENT 

The 112th year of the Smithsonian Institution, whose activities are 
recorded in this report, has demonstrated anew that James Smithson's 
scientifically and philosophically oriented mind conceived an effective 
enterprise when he specified that the establishment he founded and 
endowed should devote itself to "the increase and diffusion of knowl- 
edge among men." These two related objectives still guide and 
inspire the varied and constructive activities of his Institution. In- 
crease of knowledge well describes the scientific and scholarly research 
that is effectively carried on by Smithsonian staff members. Diffusion 
of knowledge aptly summarizes the development of public museum 
displays, the presentation of lectures, the conduct of a great official 
correspondence about science and related matters, and the issuing 
of scientific and popular publications by the Institution. 

During the year here reported upon 10,365,872 individuals visited 
the Smithsonian, if all its branches are considered. This is a truly 
amazing and significant fact, for probably no other museum group 
anywhere, comparable at all to the Smithsonian Institution, has ever 
been visited by so many people in a single year. It is interesting to 
note, however, that a growth in the recognition of the importance of 
national museums seems to characterize not only America but also 
many of the other nations of the world at the present time. As the 
United States becomes more certain of its established place in the 
world, its citizens seem to become increasingly interested in the unique 
type of knowledge about American natural resources and American 
civilian, military, and technological history that can be acquired at 
their Smithsonian. Our records show that the Institution now has 



2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

nearly 51 million cataloged objects in its collections. In number of 
items, therefore, as well as of visitors, the Smithsonian Institution is 
certainly one of the largest museum complexes, if not the largest, on 
the face of the globe. 

The fact that the Smithsonian possesses such great collections and 
also attracts such armies of visitors makes it very important that the 
public displays of its museums be prepared and presented in the most 
interesting and instructive manner for the benefit of all who come 
through its doors. It is a pleasure, therefore, to report that real 
progress was made during the year in the renovation of exhibits in 
the older buildings of the Smithsonian. Detailed planning has also 
been carried on in preparation for the construction of the great ex- 
hibits that must be ready for immediate installation when the struc- 
ture of the Institution's new Museum of History and Technology 
building is completed in 1961. 

Since the Institution's program of modernizing exhibitions began 
about 5 years ago, more than a dozen new exhibit halls have been 
opened in our older buildings — the First Ladies Hall, two halls por- 
traying North American Indians and Eskimos, the Hall of Latin 
American Archeology, Birds of the World, North American jSIanmial 
Hall, Everyday Life in Early America, the Hall of Power Machinery, 
the Hall of Health, the Printing Arts Hall, the Hall of Gems and 
Minerals, and the Halls of Naval and Military History. These new 
halls represent notable accomplishments and have attracted wide and 
favorable notice, not only from the general public but also from 
museum technicians and specialists in visual education here and 
abroad. 

This current improvement of Smithsonian museum miits is thus 
really part of a new worldwide regard for the educational function 
of museums. This growth is attested by the reports of the Inter- 
national Museums Office in Paris. Hardly a nation can be named 
that is not now engaged in new developments of buildings or displays 
in its national museums. It is interesting that such projects are 
being carried out on a large scale in Russia and its satellite states as 
well as in western nations. 

This new emphasis upon the preservation for posterity and the 
effective display of objects that represent the resources and the phys- 
ical development of each nation may well have been fostered by 
mankind's recognition of the destruction of its heritage that was 
brought about by two world wars. In this sense every great museum 
stands as a tribute to mankind's faith in the continuity of human 
achievement. Each such institution attests a recognition that the 
future is best when it is solidly grounded upon a knowledge of past 
achievements. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 3 

The objective of the new museum development at the Smithsonian 
is to displaj^ examples of the mineral and biological resources of our 
nation and of the world and to epitomize the human achievements 
that have made our country great and strong. 

More than 60 years ago a notable museum scholar, George Brown 
Goode, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, defined 
a museum as "an institution for the preservation of those objects which 
best illustrate the phenomena of nature and the works of man, and 
the utilization of these for the increase of knowledge and for the 
culture and enlightenment of the people." This fundamental con- 
ception has not changed with the years. But methods and techniques 
for meeting this objective do change. Dr. Goode further stated, 
"The museum of the past must be set aside, reconstructed, transformed 
from a cemetery of bric-a-brac into a nursery of living thoughts. 
The museum of the future must stand side by side with the library 
and the laboratory ... as one of the principal agencies for the en- 
lightenment of the people." What could better describe what has 
been going on in the Smithsonian's museums during recent years? 
Those who have these renovations in charge are trying to give the 
Smithsonian educational exhibitions that are appropriate and ade- 
quate to the mental outlook of a 20th-century America. 

In the Smithsonian's new Museum of History and Technology 
building, now under construction, there will be displayed from our 
vast collections the truly breathtaking story of the rise and inter- 
related growth of the civilian, military, and technological aspects of 
American life. In this building the relationship of pure and applied 
science will be presented in an effective way, patterned to some extent 
upon the manner in which this relationship is so well displayed in a 
number of great European museums. In the new Smithsonian build- 
ing, however, the strands that have been woven together in the mak- 
ing of our modern American civilization will be shown in a way that 
it is hoped will be unique and particularly appropriate to the special 
genius of our country. 

The existing exhibits of the Smithsonian Institution and the new 
exhibits now being planned can be thought of as significant not only 
in the Imowledge but also in the motivation that they may instill in 
many of the millions of high-school visitors who come to the Smith- 
sonian each year. In a free society, boys and girls are not drafted 
and forced to study mathematics or physics or any other subject that 
may be required by the state. Our society depends upon the slower, 
but certainly in the long run the sounder, technique of first arousing 
the students' interest and then providing them with needed edu- 
cational opportunities. Certainly great museums, such as those 
directed by the Smithsonian, are able in an important way to inspire 



4 ANNUAL REPORT SIVHTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

and provide educational motivation for not a few of its millions of 
visitors each year. Because of the present importance of interesting 
enough talented students in scientific studies to assure that our country 
will remain scientifically and technologically strong, it is especially 
fortunate that at just this time the work of the Smithsonian is be- 
coming so effective in displaying the essential relationship between 
pure and applied science and in demonstrating how research has led 
to progress in many fields in recent years. 

It should be recorded also that forward steps were made during the 
year in planning new wings for the Natural History Building, as 
authorized by Congress last year. 

As the detailed statements of the various bureau directors of the 
Smithsonian presented in this report demonstrate, the Institution 
is by no means exclusively concerned with museum displays. This 
year's record of publications indicates that the Institution is now, as 
in past years, playing a vital role in the communication of scientific 
information to the laboratories and research centers of the nation and 
the world. This year also the Smithsonian has issued some popular 
works based upon its collections for the information of a broader 
public. 

One of the most dramatic aspects of the work of the Institution 
during the time covered by this report is that of the Smithsonian 
Astrophysical Observatory. Fmids have been provided for some of 
the work of this bureau by grants from foundations and from the 
committee in charge of the International Geophysical Year. As a 
result of the use of these special funds, it has been possible to estab- 
lish Smithsonian Institution observing centers for artificial satellites 
in the following locations: Argentina, Australia, Florida, Hawaii, 
Japan, India, Iran, Curasao, New Mexico, Peru, South Africa, and 
Spain. The observations at these centers have also been made more 
adequate by the installation in each of them of a newly devised type 
of astronomical camera or recording telescope that has unique fea- 
tures. Information obtained from these stations is communicated to 
the headquarters of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory at 
Cambridge, Massachusetts. At this center calculations are made that 
have allowed the Institution to describe the orbits of all the major 
artificial satellites and to make accurate predictions concerning the 
characteristics of their motions. 

As noted below in special sections, this report year has indeed been 
one of progress in many aspects of the work of the Institution. 

THE ESTABLISHMENT 

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 
1846, in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, of 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 5 

England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of 
America "to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of 
knowledge among men." In receiving the property and accepting 
the trust. Congress determined that the Federal Government was 
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore, 
constituted an "establishment," whose statutory members are "the 
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the 
executive departments." 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS 

There was no change during the current year in the membership 
of the Board of Regents. The roll of Regents at the close of the fiscal 
year was as follows : Chief Justice of the United States Earl War- 
ren, Chancellor; Vice President Richard M. Nixon; members from 
the Senate: Clinton P. Anderson, Leverett Saltonstall, PI. Alex- 
ander Smith ; members from the House of Representatives : Overton 
Brooks, Clarence Cannon, John M. Vorys; citizen members: John 
Nicholas Brown, Arthur H. Compton, Robert V. Fleming, Crawford 
H. Greenewalt, Caryl P. Haskins, and Jerome C. Hunsaker. 

The informal dinner meeting of the Board, preceding the annual 
meeting, was held on the evening of January 16, 1958, in the main 
hall of the Smithsonian Building. Here various exhibits were dis- 
played showing phases of present-day projects. Dr. G. Arthur 
Cooper spoke on brachiopods as a key to the past. Dr. Anthony N. 
B. Garvan talked about colonial silver. Dr. Ralph S. Solecki spoke 
on "The Discovery of the First Neanderthals in IMesopotamia," and 
Archibald G. Wenley compared the Far Eastern collections in the 
Freer Galleiy of Art with those abroad. 

The regular annual meeting of the Board was held on January 
17, 1958. The Secretary presented his published annual report on 
the activities of the Institution together with the 1957 annual report 
of the United States National Museum. Dr. Robert V. Fleming, 
chairman of the executive and permanent committees of the Board, 
gave the financial report for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1957. 

FINANCES 

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian pri- 
vate funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee of 
the Board of Regents, page 223. 

APPROPRIATIONS 

Funds appropriated to the Institution for its regular operations for 
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958, totaling $6,102,319 were obligated 
as follows : 



6 



AlSn^fUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 



Management $82, 411 

United States National Museum 2,491,164 

Bureau of American Etiinology 61, 197 

Astrophysical Observatory 384, 237 

National Collection of Fine Arts 51,346 

National Air Museum 139, 646 

Canal Zone Biological Area 35, 128 

International Exchange Service 77,386 

Buildings Management Service 1, 888, 183 

Other general services 765, 995 

Additional costs due to increase in pay scales. Act of January 20, 1958 

(P.L. 85-462) 125, 626 

In addition, the sum of $800,000 was appropriated for the prepa- 
ration of plans and specifications for the additions to the Natural His- 
tory Building. 

Besides these direct appropriations, the Institution received funds 
by transfer from other Government agencies as follows : 

From the District of Columbia for the National Zoological Park $840, 650 

From the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, for the 
River Basin Surveys 175,624 

VISITORS 

Again this year an all-time high was reached in the number of 
visitors to the Smithsonian group of buildings on the Mall. The 
total was 6,423,771, about 582,000 more than the previous year. April 
1958 was the month of largest attendance, with 864,451 ; August 1957 
second, with 765,129 ; July 1957 third, with 763,817. Largest attend- 
ance for a single day was 69,349 on April 27, 1958. On the same day — 
the first Sunday of the Churchill exhibition of paintings, 42,524 came 
to the Natural History Building alone. Table 1 gives a summary of 

Table 1. — Visitors to certain Smithsonian "buildings during the year ended 

June 30, 195S 



Year and month 



1957 

July 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December 

1958 

January.- 

February.- 

March.- - 

-A.pril 

May 

June 

Total 



Smithsonian 
Building 



123,261 
120, 842 
47, 693 
37, 482 
41,119 
28, 066 

26, 645 
19, 599 
30, 522 
106, 023 
119,713 
108, 843 



Arts and 
Industries 
Building 



364, 045 
370, 605 

139, 838 
116, 432 
104, 186 

69, 904 

67, 466 
51, 369 

140, 041 
392, 292 
330, 738 
251. 939 



815,808 2,388,855 1,401,772 



Natural 
History 
Building 



150,915 
157, 392 
76, 094 
78, 094 
80, 824 
56,043 

61.422 
46, 272 
102, 677 
236, 505 
210, 515 
144, 359 



Aircraft 
Building 



109, 751 
99, 085 
55, 156 
27, 893 
34, 724 
25, 075 

21, 269 
15, 737 
37, 494 
115,032 
89, 134 
75, 312 



705, 662 



Freer 
Building 



15, 845 
17,205 
7,687 
5,902 
5,971 
3,813 

4,853 
3,517 
6,209 
14, 539 
12. 107 
14, 026 



111,674 



Total 



76.3. 817 
765, 129 
327, 068 
265, 803 
266, 824 
182, 901 

171,665 
136, 494 
322, 943 
864, 451 
762, 207 
694, 479 



5, 423, 771 



Secretary's Report. 1958 



Plate 1 




SECRETARY'S REPORT 7 

the attendance records for the five buildings. These figures, when 
added to the 913,482 visitors recorded at the National Gallery of Art 
and the 4,028,620 estimated at the National Zoological Park, make a 
total number of visitors at the Institution of 10,365,876. 

LECTURES 

The annual James Arthur Lecture on the Sun, customarily held 
in the spring, was postponed this year until fall. The 25th Arthur 
Lecture, therefore, will be recorded in next year's report. 

Dr. Rodney S. Young, curator of the Mediterranean Section of 
the University Museum at Philadelphia and professor of classical 
archeology at the University of Pemisylvania, delivered a lecture 
on "Recent Discoveries at Gordion" in the auditorium of the Natural 
History Building on the evening of February 27, 1958. This lecture 
was sponsored jointly by the Smithsonian Institution and the Archeo- 
logical Institute of America. 

Several lectures were also sponsored by the Freer Gallery of Art 
and the National Gallery of Art. These are listed later in the reports 
of these bureaus. 

BIO-SCIENCES INFORMATION EXCHANGE 

The current interest in and growing support of research in the 
bio-sciences have resulted in a considerable growth in the activities 
of the Bio-Sciences Information Exchange. This agency, which 
operates within the Smithsonian Institution under funds made avail- 
able to the Institution by other agencies, remains the most compre- 
hensive clearinghouse for current research in the life sciences. 
Through its extensive and detailed system of indexing it acts as a 
rapid means of communication among research workers. 

The active research projects registered with the Exchange now 
number more than 17,000. For each project the investigator has 
prepared a brief summary of his current problem. These smnmaries 
are made available upon request and without charge to staff members 
of research institutions. The Exchange also functions to prevent 
unknowing duplication of research support by the national govern- 
mental and nongovernmental granting agencies. In carrying out 
this responsibility a vast amount of data on the support of research 
in the life sciences has been accumulated. Information of this type 
is continually used by granting agencies in planning their current 
and future activities. 

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR'S ACTRITIES 

National Museum. — Accessions to the national collections during 
the year brought the total catalog entries in all departments to nearly 

492520—59 2 



8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

51,000,000. Some of the outstanding items received included: In 
anthropology, casts of the newly discovered Neanderthal skeleton 
from Iraq, a selection of ethnological objects from Palau and others 
from the Orient and Ethiopia, and a large series of artifacts deriv- 
ing from excavations of the River Basin Surveys; in zoology, a collec- 
tion of mammals from Panama, birds from Ghana, Rhodesia, and 
Yukon Territory, a cast of the recently discovered living coelacanth, 
the Carl J. Drake collection of over 100,000 Hemiptera, the Tippmann 
collection of nearly 98,000 wood-boring beetles, the Buys collection 
of over 12,000 leafhoppers, the Osburn collection of about 3,500 
Bryozoa, and a large lot of mollusks collected on the Smithsonian- 
Bredin Pacific Expedition; in botany, a collection of nearly 11,000 
lichens from eastern and southern United States and 15,000 phan- 
erogams from Brazil; in geology, 10 new meteorites and many rare 
and fine minerals and gems, 21,000 fossil crinoids, and 330 specimens 
of middle Eocene vertebrates from southeastern Wyoming; in armed 
forces history, several rare firearms and a group of naval ordnance 
materials recovered from a 1595 wreck off Bermuda; in science and 
technology, a foot- power milking machine, 1,400 important wood 
samples in the form of walking sticks, several interesting electronic 
items, an 1844 steam pump, and the "transparent woman" exhibited 
in the new Hall of Health ; in arts and manufactures, a model of the 
Hargreave spinning jenny and ceramic and glass items from the 
Aaron Straus collection; and in civil history, a valuable collection 
of Lincoln memorabilia, the inaugural dress of Dolley Madison, fur- 
nishings and fittings of the Stohlman Confectionery Shop of George- 
town, D.C. (dating from about 1900), and 5,801,500 United States 
obsolete revenue stamps transferred from the Internal Revenue 
Service. 

Members of the staff conducted fieldwork in Iraq, Japan and Oki- 
nawa, Africa, Panaina, Europe, and many parts of the United States. 

Under the exliibits-modernization program three new halls were 
opened to the public during the j^ear — the Hall of Health, the Hall 
of North American Indians and Eskimos, and the Plall of Military 
History. 

Bureau of American Ethnology. — Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., 
was made Director of the Bureau on January 1, 1958, filling the posi- 
tion made vacant by the retirement of Dr. M. W. Stirling. The 
staff members continued their research and publication activities: 
Dr. Roberts continued as Director of the River Basin Surveys, Dr. 
Collins continued his Eskimo and Arctic studies, Dr. Sturtevant 
carried on ethnologic fieldwork in South Carolina, New York, and 
Florida, and Mr. Miller renewed his excavations at Russell Cave, 
Alabama. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 9 

Astropliysical Observatory. — The work of the Smithsonian Astro- 
physical Observatory continued along four principal lines — solar 
astrophysics, upper atmosphere, meteors, and the satellite tracking 
program. The last-named operation was, of course, fully activated 
following the Russian launching of the first artificial earth satellite 
on October 4, 1957. The division of radiation and organisms con- 
tinued its researches on photomechanisms in plants. 

National Collection of Fine Arts. — The Smithsonian Art Commis- 
sion accepted for the Gallery 1 bronze, 2 oil paintings, 1 watercolor 
on ivory, and the Gothic libraiy and 18th-century French Renais- 
sance drawingroom from "Miramar," Newport, R.I. The Gallery 
held 13 special exhibitions during the year, and the Smithsonian 
Traveling Exhibition Service circulated 96 exhibitions in 264 mu- 
seums and galleries. 

Freer Gallery of Art. — Purchase for the Freer Gallery collections 
included Chinese bronzes, ivory, jade, painting, and pottery; Jap- 
anese painting, wood sculpture, and pottery ; Egyptian glass ; Persian 
metalwork, pottery, and manuscript; and Mesopotamian pottery. 
The Gallery continued its program of illustrated lectures in the audi- 
torium by distinguished scholars in eastern art, the 1957-58 series 
numbering 6. 

National Air Museum. — Good progress was made toward locating 
a site for a new building for the museum. During the year 193 
specimens in 52 separate accessions were added to the aeronautical 
collections, including a "Falcon" GAR-1 guided missile, a Verville- 
Sperry "Messenger" airplane of 1920, the Herrick "Vertoplane" of 
1937, a bronze statue of Brig. Gen. William Mitchell, and a "Van- 
guard" rocket-powered satellite vehicle. 

National Zoological Park. — The Zoo accessioned 1,411 individual 
animals during the year. The net count at the close of the year was 
2,316. Noteworthy among the additions were a pair of trumpeter 
swans, three Tasmanian devils, a pair of great black-casqued horn- 
bills, and a linsang from Malaya. A snow leopard was born in 
captivity, an extremely rare event. Visitors totaled more than 4 
million. 

Canal Zone Biological Area. — Of the approximately 570 visitors 
to the island during the year, 43 were scientists, students, and ob- 
servers using the station for special researches, particularly in wild- 
life observation, plant and insect studies, and photography. 

International Exchange Service. — As the official United States 
agency for the exchange of governmental, scientific, and literary 
publications between this country and other nations, the International 
Exchange Service handled during the year 1,094,798 packages of 
such publications, weighing 743,329 pounds. 



10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

National Gallenj of Art. — The Gallery during the year received 
1,730 accessions by gift, loan, or deposit. Ten special exhibitions 
were held, and 18 traveling exhibitions of prints from the Rosenwald 
Collection were circulated elsewhere. Exhibitions from the "Index 
of American Design" were given 26 bookings in 9 States. Nearly 
44,000 persons attended the general tours conducted by Gallery per- 
sonnel, and over 8,000 attended tours and lectures by special appoint- 
ment. The Sunday afternoon lectures drew a total attendance of 
about 13,000 persons. The Sunday evening concerts in the east 
garden court were continued. 

Library. — The library received a total of 53,274 publications during 
the year; 128 new exchanges were arranged. Outstanding among 
the gifts were a large collection of philatelic items and nearly 2,700 
books and reprints on Diptera. At the close of the year the holdings 
of the library and all its branches aggregated 974,893 volumes, in- 
cluding 586,722 in the Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Con- 
gress but excluding unbound periodicals and reprints and separates 
from serial publications. 

Publications. — Eighty-one new publications appeared under Smith- 
sonian imprint during the year. (See Keport on Publications, p. 215, 
for full list.) Outstanding among these were: "Araucanian Child 
Life and Its Cultural Background," by Sister M. Inez Hilger; "The 
Medical and Veterinaiy Importance of Cockroaches," by Louis M. 
Koth and Edwin R. Willis; "Geology of Barro Colorado Island, 
Canal Zone," by W. P. Woodring; "The History of Entomology in 
World War II," by Emory C. Gushing; "Life Histories of North 
American Blackbirds, Orioles, Tanagers, and Allies," by Arthur 
Cleveland Bent; "Studies in Foraminifera," by Alfred E. Loeblich, 
Jr., and collaborators; "The Bromeliaceae of Colombia," by Lyman 
B. Smith; "Archeological Investigations at the Mouth of the Ama- 
zon," by Betty J. ISIeggers and Clifford Evans; "Orbital Data and 
Preliminary Analyses of Satellites 1957 Alpha and 1957 Beta," by 
various authors ; and Ars Orientalis, volume 2. Three popular pub- 
lications were issued. In aU, 530,662 copies of printed matter were 
distributed. 

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF 

John E. Graf, Assistant Secretary, retired on December 31, 1957, 
after more than 26 years with the Institution, first as Associate Direc- 
tor of the United States National Museum and since 1945 as Assistant 
Secretary of the Institution. 

On February 4, 1958, Dr. Remington Kellogg was appointed As- 
sistant Secretary of the Institution. Dr. Kellogg has been a member 
of the Smithsonian staff since 1928 — since 1948 as Director of the 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 11 

United States National Museum. He is continuing his directorship 
of the Museum. 

Frank A. Taylor was made Director of the Museum of History and 
Technology on April 16, 1958, having served from 1932 to 1948 as 
curator of the division of engineering, from 1948 to 1955 as head 
curator of the department of arts and industries, and then as Assist- 
ant Director of the United States National Museum. 

Dr. Matthew W. Stirling retired as Director of the Bureau of 
American Ethnology on December 31, 1958. He had headed the 
Bureau since 1928, prior to which he liad served the Institution in the 
National Museum's department of anthropology. Dr. Frank H. H. 
Roberts, Jr., Associate Director of the Bureau and since 1946 director 
of the River Basin Surveys, was appointed tlie new Director to suc- 
ceed Dr. Stirling. 

Dr. Theodore H. Reed was made Director of the National Zoolog- 
ical Park effective March 12, 1958. He was first appointed to the 
staff in July 1955 as chief veterinarian, a position he held until No- 
vember 1956, when he became Acting Director upon the retirement 
of Dr. William M. Mann. Also on March 12, J. Lear Grimmer, As- 
sistant Director of the Park, was made Associate Director. 

Philip S. Hopkins, professor of aviation and head of the depart- 
ment of aviation at Norwich University, Northfield, Vt., was ap- 
pointed Director of the National Air Museum effective October 28, 
1957. At the same time Paul E. Garber, head curator of the Air 
Museum, was given the title head curator and historian to reflect an 
extension of his duties. 

Jeremiah A. Collins was appointed Chief of the International Ex- 
change Service on March 10, 1958, succeeding Dan G. Williams, eJr., 
who transferred to the Department of Health, Education, and 
Welfare. 

On August 12, 1957, Dr. Martin H. Moynihan was appointed Resi- 
dent Naturalist of the Canal Zone Biological Area. 

Miss Ruth E. Blanchard, former chief of the catalog section, was 
made chief librarian of the Institution on September 23, 1957, filling 
the position made vacant by the retirement of Mrs. Leila F. Clark 
on August 31. 



Report on the United States National 
Museum 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the f ollowmg report on the condi- 
tion and operations of the United States National Museum for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1958 : 

COLLECTIONS 

Because of the reorganization of the Museum effected at the be- 
ginning of the year (as described on p. 43), it was necessary to re- 
assign some of the specimens among the now eight departments of 
the Museum. This accounts for lower totals in some instances. 
Specimens were added to the national collections and distributed 
among the departments as follows: Anthropology, 4,373; zoology, 
525,458; botany, 57,795; geology, 43,275; armed forces history, 1,283; 
arts and manufactures, 230 ; civil history, 5,858,683 ; and science and 
technology, 3,457. Most of the specimens were received as gifts from 
individuals or as transfers from Government departments and agen- 
cies. The Annual Report of the Director of the Museum, published 
as a separate document, contains a detailed list of the year's acces- 
sions, of which the more important are sununarized below. Catalog 
entries in all departments now total 50,963,147. 

Anthro'pology. — One of the most unique accessions received in the 
department of anthropology is a set of casts of the restorable parts 
of a Neanderthal skeleton from northern Iraq. The skeleton casts 
of this newly discovered fossil man represent the work of two men in 
the department: Dr. Ralph S. Solecki, recently appointed associate 
curator in the division of archeology, who made the discovery in his 
excavation of Shanidar Cave in northern Iraq; and the curator of 
physical anthropology, Dr. T. Dale Stewart, who went to Baghdad, 
restored the original skull and long bones, and made plaster replicas. 
These casts, the first to reach this country, were donated to the na- 
tional collections by the Directorate General of Antiquities, Iraq. 

The division of ethnology received a special selection of objects 
from Palau in the Caroline Islands through Dr. Delmas Nucker, High 
Commissioner, Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. Tliis accession 
includes a model abai or men's house, wooden bowls, tortoise-shell 
money, and native implements. From the Aaron and Lillie Straus 
12 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 13 

Foundation, Inc., of Baltimore, the etlmological collections were en- 
riched by 148 objects consisting of glass snuff bottles, carved minerals, 
and ivory netsukes from China and Japan. The division received as 
a gift from Mrs. Elizabeth George a collection from Ethiopia of six 
large contemporary oil paintings depicting scenes of battle and of 
daily life, an Abyssinian manuscript Bible, silver buttons, and other 
objects illustrating Ethiopian craftsmanship in embossing, etching, 
and silver-wire filigree. 

Of outstanding interest among the year's accessions in archeology 
were two prehistoric specimens from Peru — one, a wooden doll 
dressed in native textiles, from the Central Coast, and the other, a 
gold mummy mask of the Chimu Period (ca. A.D. 1100), presented 
by Mrs. Virginia Morris Pollak. A large series of pottery, stone, 
bone, and other artifacts from the Black Widow site, and a smaller 
series from the Buffalo Pasture site in Stanley County, S. Dak., repre- 
sent the results of River Basin Surveys excavations at two sites that 
will be destroyed by the lake created by the Oahe Dam a few miles 
north of Pierre. These two collections tlirow important light on the 
native village Indian culture of the Upper Missouri region in the 
16th and I7th centuries. Mention should also be made of a large, 
well-docmnented collection of archeoiogical material from 23 States 
and the District of Columbia presented by Eichard Gates Slattery. 

Zoology. — The most important collection of mammals received dur- 
ing the year comes from Panama, where Dr. C. O. Handley, Jr., asso- 
ciate curator, collected over 1,300 specimens in cooperation with the 
Gorgas Memorial Laboratory. Valuable cetaceans were received 
from three different sources: An embalmed pigmy sperm whale 
{Kogm) from the Marine Institute of the University of Georgia, the 
skull of an Alaskan beaked whale (Ziphius) from Dr. Robert Rausch, 
and the complete skeleton of another kind of beaked whale (Mesop- 
lodon) from Florida salvaged b}'^ John L. Paradiso, museum aide. 

Among birds received during the year the following lots are the 
most important : 193 specimens from Ghana, collected and presented 
by D. W. Lamm, form the Museum's first sizable collection from that 
part of western Africa; 200 skeletons of Rhodesian birds, received 
from the Smithsonian Institution, through Dr. A. Wetmore, has 
added importantly to our skeletal material; 358 birds from Yukon 
Territory, received by transfer from the Arctic Health Research Cen- 
ter, through Dr. Laurence Irving, enhances the usefulness of the divi- 
sion's Arctic American material. 

Important type specimens received in the division of reptiles and 
amphibians include 6 paratypes of Cuban frogs, in exchange from 
the Museum of Comparative Zoology; 2 paratyjjes of lizards from 



14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1058 

New Guinea and Borneo obtained as an exchange from the Chicago 
Natural History Museum; 17 paratypes of Mexican reptiles and am- 
phibians from the University of Illinois Museum of Natural History ; 
a valuable lot of 128 reptiles and amj)hibians from Formosa collected 
by Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2, and the Museum's first ex- 
ample of a leatherback turtle from Cuba, presented by the Museo 
Ignacio Agramonte. 

Among fishes received is a cast of the recently discovered living 
representative Latimeria chalumnae of the otherwise wholly fossil 
coelacanths purchased from the Museum National d'Histoire Natu- 
relle, Paris. This interesting specimen was placed on exhibition. 
A collection of 15,897 fresh-water fishes from West Virginia was 
presented by Dr. F. J. Schwartz ; another lot of 3,398 fishes, mostly 
seahorses, was received from Dr. Kirk Strawn; and 1,185 Australian 
fishes were received in exchange from Prof. L. R. Rivas of the Uni- 
versity of Miami — an important addition to the Museum's Australian 
collections, since it included numerous species not previousl}^ rep- 
resented here. The New York Zoological Society presented 73 holo- 
types and 62 paratypes of tropical fishes, through Dr. William Beebe. 

Insect material constitutes the bulk of the year's accessions numeri- 
cally. The largest single lot is the famous Carl J. Drake collection 
of Hemiptera, worldwide in scope and comprising over 100,000 speci- 
mens and containing more than 1,000 types. The valuable and im- 
portant Tippmann collection of wood-boring beetles, Cerambycidae, 
comprising 97,830 specimens, was purchased with assistance of a grant 
from the National Science Foundation. This material, with 611 holo- 
types, 1,415 paratypes, and cotypes, is a useful supplement to the 
specimens already in the collections since it originates largely from 
regions not heretofore represented. Other important accessions of 
insects are the John L. Buys collection of 12,128 leafhoppers 
(Homoptera), presented by Mrs. Buys, and the David Dunavan col- 
lection of 4,386 North American beetles, presented by Mrs. Dunavan. 

The Raymond C. Osburn collection of 3,572 bryozoans, including 
145 type lots, together with extensive manuscript notes and microfilm 
of Dr. Osburn's library catalog and bibliography, was presented by 
Mrs. Osburn to the division of marine invertebrates. This accession 
is an important enrichment of the Museum's facilities in this area of 
research. Other notable accessions include 4,956 miscellaneous in- 
vertebrates from the Palau Islands received from the George Vander- 
bilt Foundation and the Office of Naval Research, through Dr. F. M. 
Bayer; 10,991 specimens from waters off Surinam, transferred from 
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; 2,850 crustaceans, largely cope- 
pods, chiefly from Africa, containing 2 holotypes and 388 paratypes, 
presented by Dr. A. G. Humes; 685 crustaceans, including the holo- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 15 

type and 16 paratypes of one species, given by Dr. James E. Lynch; 
2,341 polychaete worms and crustaceans from Lake Pontchartrain, 
La., a gift from Dr. Kezneat M. Darnell. 

The largest important accession acquired by the division of mollusks 
is the collection totaling 14,350 specimens made mainly by the curator, 
Dr. Harald A. Rehder, on the Smithsonian-Bredin Expedition to the 
Society, Tuamotu, and Cook Islands. Other notable accessions are 
1,600 specimens of marine mollusks from the Palau Islands received 
from the George Vanderbilt Foundation and the Office of Naval Re- 
search through Dr. F. M. Bayer ; 3,550 marine shells collected by Dr. 
Cadet Hand on Kapingamarangi Atoll, Caroline Islands, under the 
auspices of the Pacific Science Board ; and 2,034 specimens from the 
Samoan Islands, Palaus, and New Guinea, received from the Academy 
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service transferred to the Museum 113 cephalopods from the Gulf 
of Mexico through Harvey R. BuUis, Jr., and 311 land and fresh- 
water mollusks of South America were received in exchange from the 
Chicago Museum of Natural History. 

Botany. — The largest gift to the department of botany consists of 
10,847 lichens, constituting the personal herbarium of Dr. Mason E. 
Hale, Jr., associate curator of the division of cryptogams ; most of the 
material is from the eastern and southern United States. Another 
notable gift received from Dr. Jose Cuatrecasas, resident investigator 
of the department, comprised 1,165 specimens of his own collections 
from Colombia, mostly a comprehensive collection of the Hepaticae 
(liverworts). These are being studied by Prof. Margaret Fulford, a 
principal specialist on the Hepaticae. Other gifts include 162 speci- 
mens from William O. Douglas, Associate Justice of the Supreme 
Court, representing his personal collection of Himalayan plants, and 
1,735 plants of the Philippine Islands collected by Dr. Jose Vera 
Santos and presented by the University of the Philippines. To be 
mentioned especially are the 117 samples of diatoms from the Ant- 
arctic collected by the British Australian-New Zealand Antarctic Ex- 
pedition and presented by the University of Adelaide in Australia. 

Dr. Lyman B. Smith, curator of phanerogams, collected 15,133 
specimens in southern Brazil. Other botanists and institutions in 
Brazil have been collaborating with Dr. Smith in his study of the 
Brazilian flora and have contributed specimens as follows : 422 from 
Father Raulino Reitz, 378 from the Instituto Agronomico do Norte, 
Belem, 163 from Dr. Amaro Macedo, and 90 from Sr. G. Hatschbach. 
Dr. Egbert H. Walker, associate curator of phanerogams, obtained 
291 plant specimens on his field trip to Okinawa in connection with 
his current studies of the flora of the Ryulcyu Islands. In helpful as- 
sistance to Dr. Walker's w^ork, Kagoshima University, Kyushu, Japan, 



16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

sent in exchange 578 specimens collected by Prof. S. Hatusima, and 
Dr. J. T. Conover, University of Texas, presented his personal col- 
lection of ferns of Okinawa, numbering 668 specimens. 

Other important exchanges include: 2,675 Cuban plants, mostly 
from the now historic collections of Brother Leon and Brother Cle- 
mente, received from the Colegio de la Salle, Havana ; 2,697 specimens 
from Arctic Alaska, received from Stanford University; 1,132 from 
Canada and Alaska from the Botany and Plant Pathology Labora- 
tory, Department of Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada; 300 from the 
Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria ; 1,157 from the Univer- 
sity of Michigan; 912, mostly bryophytes of Europe and Africa, from 
the Institute of Systematic Botany, University of Uppsala; 421 from 
the collections of Dr. Bassett Maguire and his associates in the "Gua- 
yana Highlands" of Venezuela, received from the New York Botanical 
Garden ; and 574 plants of New Guinea, received from the Common- 
wealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Canberra, 
Australia. 

Two noteworthy lots were acquired by purchase: 631 plants from 
the Transvaal, Africa, from the collection of Dr. H. J. Schlieben ; and 
281 Colombian plants of the A. E. Lawrance collection. 

Geology. — Among the fine and rare minerals received in the divi- 
sion of mineralogy and petrology are native silver, Honduras, from 
the New York and Honduras Rosario Mining Co. ; amethyst, Korea, 
from Jolin B. Jago; and pyrolusite, Ghana, from Marcel D. Acrouet. 
Newly described mineral species received as gifts include ajoite, Ari- 
zona, from Miss Mary Mrose, and santafeite. Grants, N. Mex., from 
the New Mexico Bureau of Mmes and Mineral Resources. 

Outstanding minerals obtained through exchange are : A very large 
scheelite crystal from Arizona; a fine helvite crystal from Sweden; a 
crystal of columbite from Virginia; an exceptionally large ilvaite 
crystal from Idaho; wulfenite from Arizona; and aragonite from 
California. 

Noteworthy additions to the gem collection were purchased through 
the Chamberlain fund for the Isaac Lea collection. These include 
a garnet from Idaho weighing 25.7 carats; a figure of the Chinese 
god of longevity carved in tigereye; a nephrite jade vase; and a fine 
series of small Montana sapphires of various colors. A large and 
ornate jade was received as a gift from Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather 
Post May. 

Outstanding additions to the Roebling collection by purchase and 
exchange include these items : Native gold, Washington ; azurite and 
cerussite, Australia; becquerelite, kasolite, soddyite and schoepite, 
Belgian Congo; spodumene, Brazil; Imebnerite, Colorado; magnesite 
and strontianite, Austria; wulfenite, Arizona; uraninite, Colorado; 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 17 

and a specimen of the Kimble County, Tex., meteorite was added as 
an exchange. 

Several outstanding specimens were purchased through the Can- 
field fund as additions to the Canfieid collection. Among these are 
sylvanite, Colorado; chrysocolla and quartz, Arizona; scheelite, 
Korea ; apophyllite and amblygonite, Brazil. 

Received in exchange are nine meteorites new to the collection: 
Vengerovo, Krymka, Orlovka, Chebankol, Nikolskoe, Petropavlovsk, 
and Hressk from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; Richland, 
Navarro County, Tex., and Fayetteville, Washington County, Ark. 

Significant among new material received in the division of inverte- 
brate paleontology and paleobotany are : 10 specimens of rare Missis- 
sippian goniatites from Chris E. A. Alter; 103 of Lower Cretaceous 
Foraminifera from Trinidad, B.W.I., presented by Dr. Hans M. 
Bolli; approximately 10,000 of invertebrate fossils from Silurian 
formations on the Island of Gotland, from Dr. A. J. Boucot; about 
100 of Tertiary echinoids and other Cuban fossils from the Cuba 
California Oil Co., Havana, through P. B. McGrath; 2 type speci- 
mens of Ordovician starfish from Dr. Howard R. Cramer; 2 type 
specimens of Cretaceous crabs from North Dakota given by Dr. F. D. 
Holland, Jr. ; 2,000 Pliocene mollusks from St, Petersburg, Fla., from 
Charles Locklin; and the type specimen of an enormous spiriferoid 
brachiopod, Dimegelasma^ from the Mississippian of Nevada from 
Dr. Joseph Lintz, Jr. 

Funds from the income of the Walcott bequest permitted the pur- 
chase from Mrs, Raymond R. Hibbard of 300 rhomboporoid Bryozoa 
from the Middle Devonian Hamilton gi-oup of New York State and 
38 Pliocene brachiopods from Sicily, from Guiseppe Bonafede. 

The crinoid collection of Harrell L, Strimple, Bartlesville, Okla,, 
was purchased mider the Springer fund. This yielded about 21,000 
specimens and represents more than 20 years of collecting by Mr, 
Strimple, who has made a specialty of Upper Paleozoic crinoids. 

Notable among the exchanges are 306 Paleozoic and Mesozoic in- 
vertebrate fossils, from the University of Bristol, through Dr. W. F. 
Whittard. 

The significant accession for the year in the division of vertebrate 
paleontology came as a gift through the income of the Y\^alcott fund 
bequest, which permitted Dr. C. L. Gazin, curator, and Franklin 
Pearce, exhibits specialist, to collect 330 specimens from Middle 
Eocene beds of southwestern Wyoming. These include skull and 
jaws of the primate Notharctus tenehrosus and skeletons of the 4-toed 
horse Orohippus. the primitive tapir Helaletes^ skulls of assorted 
rodents, and the large titanothere Palaeosyops. Another gift from 
the Walcott fund consists of portions of four tritylodont (mammal- 



18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

like reptile) skeletons and a protosuchian crocodile collected by Dr. 
David Dunkle, curator, and Dr. G. S. Lewis of the U.S. Geological 
Survey from Triassic rocks in the Navajo Eeservation, Arizona. 

An exchange with the Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle, 
Paris, brought examples of six genera of ray-finned fishes, new to 
the collection, from the Triassic of Madagascar and casts of impor- 
tant types in the French museum. An important skull of Eryops from 
the Permian (Dunkard formation) of southwestern Pennsylvania 
was donated by William E. Moran. 

Armed Forces history. — ^Among the material accessioned in the 
division of military history, the notable items are : A rare Committee 
of Safety rampart rifle made at the Eappahannock Forge and a 
model 1869 pistol with Allin conversion, one of three known speci- 
mens, from the Department of the Army, and the famous Frankfort 
Arsenal cartridge collection from Col. Berkeley R. Lewis. 

Of much importance is a collection of naval ordnance materials 
recovered from the wreck of an unidentified ship which sank on the 
reefs of Bermuda about 1595. This rare material of the sixteenth 
century included expanding bar shot of lead and wrought iron, spiked 
shot that carried tow soaked with tar, which when lighted by the 
explosion of the charge in the gun formed an incendiary shot; solid 
iron shot of various sizes, musket balls, and the breechblock of an 
iron swivel gun. 

A built-up model of a warship of the late seventeenth century was 
received as a loan from Edwin A. Link. It is believed that the model 
itself dates to that period, and it forms a rare and desirable addition 
to the exhibition series. Received from the Department of the Navy, 
also as a loan, through the Naval Historical Foundation, was a fife 
rail which stood by the foremast of the sloop-of-war Hartford^ flag- 
ship of Admiral Farragut during the actions at Mobile Bay and on 
the Mississippi River in the Civil War. 

Science and technology. — An unusual specimen acquired by the 
division of agriculture and wood products is a Mehring foot-power 
cow milker donated by Earl J. Waybright. This type of milking 
machine was made and sold from the 1890's into the 1920's and pro- 
vided an inexpensive device that lightened and speeded up the task 
of milking for the man with a small herd. 

The outstanding accession to the section of wood products is a 
group of 1,400 interesting woods of the world, in cane form, known 
as the Rudolph Block collection of walking sticks. Mr. Block was 
long known as a writer of fiction and articles under his pen name of 
Bruno Lessing, and in his travels he gathered woods from the im- 
portant worldwide forest regions. These canes represent the gems of 
the wood world and were presented by the Yale University School 
of Forestry. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 19 

Most of the accessions received in the division of electricity are 
in the field of electronics. Deserving particular mention are the 
experimental electron tubes of Drs. Langmuir and Hull donated by 
the General Electric Kesearch Laboratoiy. Union College gave ex- 
amples of early electronic equipment. Bowdoin College sent the 
core of an electromagnet made by Joseph Henry, while Williams Col- 
lege presented a very early cathode-ray tube. Maj. J. Vanderhoef 
(USMC, ret.) contributed an unusual example of a Vibrofiex 
key and a number of Japanese electron tubes. Through the Hazel- 
tine Research Corp., Dr. Alan Hazeltine donated the original experi- 
mental model of the neutrodyne circuit. 

The division of mechanical and civil engineering received for its 
horological collection two notable clocks: one, an elaborate astronom- 
ical clock of 1764, made in South Tyrol, and the other, a 17th-century 
Dutch pendulum clock built by Johannes Tegelbergh of The Hague, 
presented by Mr. and Mrs. Dillard B. Laseter. 

The machinery collections obtained from the Worthington Corpo- 
ration Henry R. Worthington's first double-acting, direct-acting 
steam pump, built in 1844. A fine highly finished quadruple-expan- 
sion marine steam engine, built in 1906 by the Dodge Brothers, was 
received from the University of Micliigan. The Boeing Airplane 
Co, sectioned for display purposes a small gas turbine, which was 
transferred to the Museum by the Department of the Navy. 

The most significant accession acquired in the division of medical 
sciences is the transparent manikin of a woman which shows by 
electronic devices, light, and sound the location of the major organs 
of the human body and explains their functions. This exhibit was 
obtained from the Deutsches Gesundheits Museum. A collection of 
gas-oxygen machines, inhalers, and hypodermic syringes was donated 
by W. Harry Archer, D.D.S., an authority on Horace "Wells, pri- 
mary discoverer of anesthesia. Another outstanding acquisition is 
a group of unusually rare ceramic drug jars donated by the Bristol- 
Myers Co. The collection included a 13th-century Rhages (Persia) 
albarello and a 13th-century Rakka (Mesopotamia) albarello, as well 
as a 15th-century Hispano-Moresque majolica drug container and 
an early 16th-century Faenza (Italy) dragonspout ewer. 

The division of physical sciences acquired specimens to fill the 
gaps in its collection of scientific instruments. Among these is a set 
of apparatus for demonstrating the mechanical powers presented by 
Middlebury College, a fine vacuum pum.p from Bowdoin College, an 
18th-century chemical furnace from Williams College, the famous 
set of tuning forks from the United States Military Academy, and a 
fine Oertling assay balance from Wlieaton College. 

Outstanding accessions in the division of transportation are rare 
builders' half-models, including an Eastern Shore of Maryland fish- 



20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

ing launch, dated about 1913, donated by James B. Richardson, and 
the model of a motor garvey from southern New Jersey, donated by 
the builder, W. R. Main. Other specimens of note are a working 
scale model of an Italian coal-fired locomotive with tender, flatcar, 
extra assemblies, and spare parts, donated by Richard D. Boutros, 
and the Bayly gig, which has been on loan by the heirs of the Bayly 
and Orem families for a number of years. 

Arts arid manufactures. — A significant acquisition in the division 
of textiles is a reconstructed model of John Hargreave's spinning 
jenny. This model, which demonstrates Hargreave's original con- 
ception, was built in the Exhibits Laboratory by Robert Sampson 
from the specifications in Hargreave's patent of 1770. An interest- 
ing collection of handwoven fabrics made in the South during the 
Civil War was presented by Mrs. N. C. Browder. A beautiful and 
rare cashmere shawl with a turquoise center was presented by Miss 
Sabra O. Burgess, and four silk shawls were given by Miss M. Agnes 
Neill. 

The division of ceramics and glass acquired a rare pressed-glass 
ornamented pane believed to be the earliest marked piece of Wheeling 
lacy glass manufactured by J. & C. Ritchie, Wheeling, W. Va. This 
specimen was purchased with funds provided by W. Daniel Quattle- 
baum of California. Fifty ceramic and glass items from the collec- 
tion of the late Aaron Straus, Baltimore philanthropist, were given 
by the Straus Foundation. 

The important accessions in the division of graphic arts are a gift 
by Capt. Emerson E. Morris of 10 etchings by Pierre van der Borcht 
(1545-1608) ; a color lithograph, "Go and Catche a Falling Starre" 
by June Wayne, presented by the Society of Washington Print- 
makers ; and 12 pictorial photographs by Clarence John Laughlin of 
New Orleans, one of this country's outstanding photographic artists, 
received as a gift from the Eickemeyer endowment fund. A box- 
type camera by one of America's earliest daguerreotype photogra- 
phers, Henry Fitz, Jr., was received as a gift from Mrs. Willard H. 
Howell. A camera of the pioneer western photographer James Fen- 
nemore was presented by Senator Barry M. Goldwater of Arizona. 

Civil history. — The most significant acquisition in the division of 
political history is the collection of Lincoln memorabilia presented 
by his great-grandson, Lincoln Isham. Mary Todd Lincoln's silver 
tea and coffee service, President Lincoln's watch, his silver cutlery, 
and presentation revolver are some of the items in the collection. 
Additional important pieces of White House china were received. A 
salad plate and three oyster plates from the state service used during 
the administration of President Rutherford B. Hayes were given by 
Col. Theodore Barnes, and a dinner plate from the state service of 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 21 

President Benjamin Harrison was presented by Mrs. Samuel 
Schwartz. The First Ladies collection was enhanced by the loan of 
the inaugural dress of Dolley Madison from the William Rockhill 
Nelson Gallery of Art, Kansas City. 

The division of cultural history acquired the furnishings and fit- 
tings of the Stohlman Confectionery Shop originally installed in 
Georgetown, D.C., in 1900. This remarkable accession with its ice- 
cream parlor, its ornate cabinetwork, candy jars, fancy ice-cream 
molds, and coimtless other minutiae will serve to document a pic- 
turesque phase of late Victorian urban life. A complete set of orig- 
inal furnishmgs from a 19th-century parlor in a Thomaston, Maine, 
house was donated by the Misses Helen R. and Elizabeth W. New- 
corabe. The carpet, mirror, sofas, and side chairs will make it pos- 
sible to reproduce authentically the parlor of a rural Victorian 
gentleman. 

Among the outstanding accessions received in the division of 
numismatics are 22 die proofs of vignettes used for Canadian cur- 
rency, donated by the British American Bank Note Co., Ottawa; 
664 Chinese cash pieces transferred by the Library of Congress; 1 
Continental $60 note, issued September 1778, donated by Consul J. 
Warner; 4 Byzantine gold solidi and 2 modern Greek gold coins, 
given by M. Tambakis. Senator Harry Byrd donated three $1,000 
bonds and five $500 bonds issued by the Confederate States of Amer- 
ica in 1861 and 1863. A rare copper plate made by Charles Toppan 
& Co. and used about 1835 by the New Haven County Bank for the 
printing of $10, $20, $50, and $100 notes was presented by the New 
Haven Bank, Conn., through Comptroller W. F. Hasse, Jr. Showing 
his continued interest in the growth of the national coin collections, 
Paul A. Straub donated a group of rare Holy Roman Empire gold 
coins struck in Hungary and Carinthia, and an unusual Prussian 
taler struck in 1719 in the name of Frederick Wilhelm I. 

The division of philately and postal history received an excep- 
tionally large accession through the transfer of 5,801,500 United 
States obsolete revenue stamps from the Internal Revenue Service. 
Former Postmaster James A. Farley converted a loan of 8,835 speci- 
mens to a gift. A rarity, the United States 24-cent airmail stamp 
with inverted center, was donated by the Raymond H. Weill Co. Sid- 
ney N. Shure of Chicago presented the first issue of Israel complete 
in sheets. An airmail collection of Albania and Bulgaria, a stamp 
collection of Czechoslovakia in 17 volumes, and a S-volume collec- 
tion of Rocket Mail were presented by Tom Lowenstein. An official 
presentation booklet of stamps of the United Nations for use in the 
European Office (Swiss overprints) was donated by John M. Harlan, 
Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. 



22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

EXPLORATION AND FIELDWORK 

Documentary research revealed the existence of an 18th-century 
courthouse on the south bank of Potomac Creek across from Marl- 
borough Town, Va. To verify the 1743 land survey and to locate 
and determine the type of structure, F. M. Setzler, head curator, de- 
partment of anthropology, directed archeological excavations on the 
Williams site south of Stony Point. During the week of August 
19-23, 1957, in collaboration with C. Malcolm Watkins, acting curator 
of cultural history, and Prof, Oscar Darter of Mary Washington 
College, Fredericksburg, Va., he exposed the brick foundation of a 
T-shaped building, which in general outline and size resembled the 
1730 type of courthouses, such a,s those now extant in Hanover, King 
William, and Charles City Counties, Va. This project is one phase 
of a research program begim in 1956 at Marlborough Town. 

During the period October 7 to November 22, 1957, Head Curator 
Setzler excavated the Welcome Mound along the Ohio River in West 
Virginia. Tlie excavation of this large prehistoric Indian mound 
was made possible through the generous cooperation of the Colum- 
bia-Southern Chemical Corporation, on whose property the mound 
was located. The company furnished laborers, bulldozer, an en- 
gineer, and laboratory facilities. The mound measured 110 feet in 
diameter and 20 feet in height. Even though the quantity of arti- 
facts was limited, the quality exceeded objects from other mounds 
of this cultural horizon. On the basis of potsherds and projectile 
points, Welcome Momid is classified as a middle Adena site represent- 
ing a period of approximately 500 B.C. The most important artifact 
recovered was a carved effigy tubular smoking pipe in the form of a 
shoveler duck's head and neck, found at the right knee of one of the 
adult skeletons. Two others wore buried at the base of the mound. 
In the mouth cavity of one of these skeletons the canine tooth of a 
mountain lion was found. Based on evidence from other Adena 
mounds, this tooth could indicate that the body had been interred 
wearing a mountain-lion facial mask. In connection with this archeo- 
logical research program, Mr, Setzler visited the Ohio State Museum, 
Columbus, and the University of Kentucky Museum, Lexington, from 
April 28 to May 4, 1958, to examine and study the collections of 
archeological material excavated from other Adena mounds in those 
States. He also examined collections from other prehistoric cultural 
levels looking toward the future modernization of the Museum's ex- 
hibition halls pertaining to American archeology. 

From October 9, 1957, to January 14, 1958, Dr. T. Dale Stewart, 
curator of physical anthropology, was in Baghdad, Iraq, lestoring, 
studying, and making casts of the Neanderthal skeleton that had been 
discovered in Shanidar Cave, northern Iraq, by Dr. Ralph S. Solecki 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 23 

in 1957 prior to his joining the Museum's staff as an associate curator 
in Old World archeology. Dr. Stewart, invited by the Iraqian Gov- 
ernment to repair and restore the skull and postcranial skeleton, not 
only found it more complex than anticipated but also discovered that 
owing to an injury of the brachial plexus the right shoulder and arm 
of the 45,000-year-old Neanderthaler had been paralyzed. This 
paralysis caused the right humerus to atrophy. The distal end and 
forearm were missuig. After completing this difficult task of restor- 
ing a badly broken skull. Dr. Stewart m^ade a mold and plaster casts. 
He was permitted by the Iraqian Government to bring one of the 
casts to the Smithsonian Institution, the first to reach this country. 
On his return trip to Wasliington he visited with physical anthropolo- 
gists in Turkey, Rome, France, and England, all of whom were 
pleased to examine the cast of the Shanidar skull. 

In connection with his long-range research program of compara- 
tive studies of Micronesian material culture. Dr. S. PI. Riesenberg, 
acting curator of ethnology, spent two weeks examining and studying 
the Micronesian collections at the Peabody Museum, Salem, Mass.; 
Dartmouth Museum, Hanover, N. H. ; and Fairbanks Museum, St. 
Johnsbury, Vt. The Peabody Museum collections include some of 
the objects collected by the first Europeans to explore these islands. 
While in Chicago during Christmas week he made a similar survey 
of Micronesian artifacts at the Chicago Natural History Museum. 
This trip enabled him to interview several specialists in African eth- 
nology in respect to the appointment of an associate curator for his 
division. 

While attending meetings of the American Anthropological As- 
sociation in Chicago during Christmas week. Dr. Clifford Evans, as- 
sociate curator in archeology, examined the archeological collections 
excavated at Cuenca in the highlands of Ecuador by Dr. Donald 
Collier and found pottery types similar to those excavated on the 
Rio Babahoyo along the coast of Ecuador. From May 11 through 
17 Dr. Evans visited Peabody Museum, Cambridge, Mass., the 
American Museum of Natural History, and the Museum of the 
American Indian, New York City, to compare the pottery he and Dr. 
IMeggers excavated on the Rio Napo in Ecuador, and from sites on 
the middle Amazon excavated by Peter P. Hilbert, with that from 
sites in eastern Peru. This constitutes one phase of a long-range 
program of archeological research in South America. 

Dr. M. T. Newman, associate curator of physical anthropology, 
spent two days at Pennsylvania State University, State College, Pa., 
conferring with Drs. H. Schraer and P. Baker of the Bone Density 
Research and Evaluation Center in connection with the data he 

492520 — 59 3 



24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

accumulated at Hacienda Vicos, Callejon de Huaylas, North Central 
Sierra, Peru, 

The Museum's new associate curator in Old World archeology, Dr. 
Ealph Solecki, attended an interdisciplinary symposium at the Uni- 
versity of Chicago's Oriental Institute from May 8 to 11. This 
meeting emphasized the contributions that can be made by zoologists, 
agronomists, geologists, and other specialists in solving problems 
arising from the excavation of Neolithic and Paleolithic archeologi- 
cal sites. The Shanidar Cave, in Iraq, excavated by Dr. Solecki, pro- 
duced evidence of a very stable animal population over a period of 
100,000 years. He reported that the evidence from Shanidar Cave 
showed that the earliest animal and plant domestication probably 
took place within the past 12,000 years. 

Assistant Curator of Ethnology R. A. Elder, Jr., spent a day in 
February and one in April selecting and transporting an unusual col- 
lection of Asiatic and Far Eastern objects from Baltimore, Md., do- 
nated to the national collections by the Aaron and Lillie Straus 
Foimdation, Inc. 

C. V. Morton, acting curator of cryptogams, again participated 
in the American Fern Society field trip, and from August 21 to 25 
collected ferns from Stanford University north along the Redwood 
highway to Eureka, Calif. He also attended the meetings of the 
American Institute of Biological Sciences at Stanford University. 

From October 8 to December 28, 1957, Dr. Egbert H. Walker, 
associate curator of phanerogams, traveled to Japan, Okinawa, 
Taiwan, Thailand, Viet Nam, and the Philippines. He participated 
in the Ninth Pacific Science Congress in Bangkok, and enroute ex- 
amined, studied, and collected plants in Japan, Okinawa, and Taiwan, 
in preparation of a manuscript on the flora of Okinawa and the 
southern Ryukyus. 

Dr. Mason E. Hale, associate curator of cryptogams, spent several 
days in October examining collections of West Indian lichens at 
Harvard University, Wellesley College, Yale University, and the 
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Dr. Hale also col- 
lected lichens in Virginia, North Carolina, and the coastal plain of 
Florida. While in Florida during April he participated in the an- 
nual meeting of the Association of Southeastern Biologists at 
Tallahassee. 

In August 1957 and agaui in May 1958, Dr. Richard S. Cowan, 
associate curator of phanerogams, spent several days at the New 
York Botanical Garden checking manuscripts with plant collections 
and completing his portion of the Index Nomina Genericorum. 

In September 1957, Dr. Herbert Friedmann, acting head curator of 
zoology, attended the amiual meeting of the American Omitholo- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 25 

gists' Union at Cape May, N.J, In November he studied and de- 
scribed the African viduine weaverbirds at Yale University and 
the American Museum of Natural History in order to complete his 
manuscript on this group. 

On June 4, 1958, Dr. Henry W. Setzer, associate curator of mam- 
mals, returned from an extended field trip in North Africa. The 
first 2 weeks of May he spent excavating burrows of rodents in the 
vicinity of Wadi Natroun, Faiymn Province, and near the village of 
Abu Kawash. From May 17 to 24 he collected mammals in the 
vicinity of St. Catherine's Monaster}^ in southern Sinai. The last 
week was spent in the Delta and eastern desert region. 

From January 15 to March 15, 1958, Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., 
associate curator of mammals, continued his mammal survey of 
Panama, which yielded over 700 specimens of mammals. Several 
species new to Panama were collected, and evidence was obtained to 
show that there is more mingling of South and Central American 
faunas in the istlunus than was heretofore suspected. In November 
1957 Dr. Handley studied the greater and lesser pigmy sperm whales 
at the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard and at the Ameri- 
can Museum of Natural History. In September 1957 he spent 2 
weeks with museum aides J. L. Paradiso and B. R. Feinstein collect- 
ing small manmials along the Clinch Momitain range in southwestern 
Virginia. In March 1958 Mr. Paradiso roughed out and shipped to 
the Museum from Vero Beach, Fla., the skeleton of a beaked whale. 

From July 5 to August 4, 1957, Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke, curator 
of insects, visited Europe principally to pack and ship a large col- 
lection of insects assembled by Eng. F. Tippmann in Vienna, 
Austria. In England he conferred with the entomologists at the 
British Museum. In January 1958 Dr. Clarke spent 2 days at St. 
Lawrence University, Canton, N.Y., where he acquired the John 
Buys collection of leafhoppers (Cicadellidae), which contains speci- 
mens from Formosa and new forms from Honduras heretofore not 
represented in the Museum. On May 5, 1958, he returned from an 
extensive collecting trip on the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Ex- 
pedition. He accompanied the leader of the expedition, Dr. "Waldo 
L. Schmitt, former head curator of zoology, and now research associ- 
ate. This expedition was made possible through the continued gen- 
erosity of Mr. and Mrs. J. Bruce Bredin, of Greenville, Del. For 6 
weeks the scientists were enabled to collect zoological specimens among 
the Leeward Islands of the Lesser Antilles. 

Two and a half weeks were spent by Dr. R. E. Crabill, Jr., associate 
curator of insects, studying type specimens at Harvard and collect- 
ing mj^riapods and spiders in Massachusetts, Vermont, and the Lake 
Placid section of New York. 



26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Dr. L. P. Schultz, curator of fishes, spent 2 weeks in November 
1957 repacking and sliipping the Col. John K. Howard collection of 
fishes at the University of Miami, Fla. Enroute Dr. Schultz visited 
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service laboratories and university lab- 
oratories in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. 
From April 7 to 11, 1958, Dr. Schultz attended a symposium in 
New Orleans, La., on the attacks made by sharks. 

Dr. Alexander Wetmore, research associate, represented the Smith- 
sonian Institution at the Pan African Ornithological Congress, held 
at Livingstone, Northern Ehodesia, from July 15 to 20, 1957. Over 
200 persons were in attendance, including delegates from several coun- 
tries of western Europe and from the United States, in addition to 
those engaged in investigations in this field in the various countries 
of Africa. The occasion was especially important as it was the first 
meeting of the kind on that continent. Enroute to the Congress 
there was opportunity to cross through the Wankie Game Eeserve 
and afterward to spend 6 days observing the birds and mammals of 
the Kruger National Park. Following this Dr. Wetmore visited 
scientific institutions and laboratories in Johannesburg, Pretoria, 
Durban, and Capetown, Union of South Africa, and had 3 days for 
observations near Dakar m Senegal. He returned to Washington 
via Lisbon on August 13. 

In January 1958 he returned to Panama to continue field investi- 
gations of the birdlife of the Isthmus. Through the kindness of 
H. V. T. Mais, agent for the Chiriqui Land Co. in Panama, and 
G. D. Munch, manager of the Bocas del Toro Division of that com- 
pany, arrangement had been made for quarters in Almirante, Prov- 
ince of Bocas del Toro, an area not previously visited. This is an im- 
portant region for study because of species of birds foimd farther 
north along the Caribbean that here enter Panama and reach their 
southern limits in this section. Field equipment was shipped on 
January 13 by Cessna-180 4-passenger plane since the airport serving 
Almirante at the town of Bocas del Toro was closed temporarily to 
larger aircraft. There is no true dry season in this section of Pan- 
ama, and rains came almost daily. Wliile the higher areas of level 
land had been cleared for cultivation, forest remained over extensive 
sections of swamp, and on the hills bordering small stream valleys, 
as well as on the large islands in Almirante Bay. 

Fieldwork continued here 2 months, with a trip each week up the 
line of railroad into the banana plantations that extend from the 
Changuinola River to Guabito on the Costa Rican border. Travel 
elsewhere from Almirante was mainly by dugout canoe powered by an 
outboard motor, with occasional trips with friends in other craft. T. 
W. Dunn was especially helpful through his knowledge of Almirante 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 27 

Bay gained through fishing excursions. And in the Changuinola 
area Koy Roig gave important aid. A nesting colony of red-billed 
tropicbirds on Swan Cay in the Caribbean outside the entrance of the 
pass Boca del Drago, and another of Audubon's shearwaters on Tiger 
Rock off Chiriqui I'oint at the end of the Valiente Peninsula, were of 
particular interest since tiiese are the only locations known for these 
birds in the western Caribbean. Through the help of Mr. Munch in 
providing a larger launch, collections were made for 2 days on the 
island Escudo de Veraguas 10 miles off the base of the Valiente 
Peninsula. A wren, a manakin, and a spiny rat obtained here are 
forms previously unknown to science, marked particularly by much 
larger size, compared to their relatives on the mainland. 

On return to tlie Canal Zone on March 10 Dr. Wetmore was occupied 
the following 2 weeks with further collecting in the savanna areas of 
Code and in the Province of Panama, including 3 days at La Jagua, 
east of Pacora, where the first cattle egrets to be collected in Panama 
were taken. This heron has been seen here for 2 years past and ap- 
pears now to be fully established. Work for the season ended with 
return by air to Washington on March 29. 

During September 1957 and again in May 1958 Dr. G. A, Cooper, 
head curator of geology, accompanied by R. E. Grant, research as- 
sistant, carried forward his long-range research program of solving 
the stratigraphic sequence in the Glass Mountains, especially Leonard 
Mountain near Marathon in west Texas. Last fall they were for- 
tunate in establishing a direct paleontological sequence as well as ob- 
taining evidence to show that the big limestones in the Leonard 
formation join the basal formation to become a single limestone east 
of Sullivan Peak. In May they traced this particular key bed across 
the mountain. An effort was made to collect special material for in- 
clusion in the modernization of an invertebrate paleontological ex- 
hibit hall. In November 1957 Dr. Cooper delivered his presidential 
address before the Paleontological Society in Atlantic City, N.J. He 
spent several days in Boston the latter part of March examining and 
studying Silurian, Devonian, and Recent brachiopods at Harvard 
University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 

From July 12 to August 9 Dr. C. L. Gazin, curator of vertebrate 
paleontology, and exhibits specialist F. L. Pearce prospected for and 
collected vertebrate fossils in the eastern, central, and western por- 
tions of the Bridger Basin around Green River and Lyman, Wyo. 
Good results were obtained between Smiths Fork and Blacks Fork. 
A rare skull and skeletal material of the Eocene horse Orohifpus 
were recovered. Dr. Gazin spent a week after August 9 at the Los 
Angeles County Museum studying the Eocene collections recently 
transferred from the California Institute of Technology. Early in 



28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

November 1957 he attended the annual meeting of the Society of 
Vertebrate Paleontology in Philadelphia, Pa., and the Geological 
Society of America meetings in Atlantic City, N.J. During the 
first week of December Dr. Gazin studied Eocene and Oligocene col- 
lections at Princeton, N.J., and the American Museimi of Natural 
History. In February 1958 he studied middle Eocene mammalian 
collections from the Green Kiver beds of northeastern Utah at the 
Carnegie Museum in Pittsburgh, Pa. 

During September 1957 E. P. Henderson, associate curator of 
mineralogy and petrology, accompanied by photographer Jack Scott, 
made an extensive trip in order to study the morphology and surface 
features of meteorites and to photogTaph large collections. They 
spent some time going west and also on their return east at the 
Battelle Memorial Institute in Columbus, Ohio, witnessing the cut- 
ting operation of the Grant, N. Mex., meteorite. Meteoritic iron 
requires much more time to cut than one anticipates. These cut sec- 
tions will enable the specialist to study the thermal penetration. 
Henderson and Scott examined and photographed the meteorites at 
the University of Kansas, Iowa State College and the State Univer- 
sity of Iowa, Chicago Natural History Museum, and Wooster and 
Marietta Colleges in Ohio. These studies are especially important 
now that manmade satellites are being placed in outer space. Mr. 
Henderson spent 2 days in May examining the meteorite collection 
in the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences. He also acquired 
new material for the Museum's collections. 

Dr. D. H. Dunkle, associate curator of vertebrate paleontology, 
spent 2 days in October 1957 studying various Mesozoic teleostean 
fishes in the Bayet collection of the Carnegie Museum in Pittsburgh. 
In March 1958 he devoted 2 days to the study of a restricted group of 
elopoid fishes from the Cope collection at the American Museum of 
Natural History. 

In the company of two paleontologists of the U.S. Geological 
Survey, Dr. Richard S. Boardman, associate curator of invertebrate 
paleontology and paleobotany, spent 6 days in the fall of 1957 collect- 
ing bryozoans, brachiopods, and corals from all the stratigraphic 
zones of middle Devonian rocks along the falls of the Ohio River. Dr. 
Boardman attended the annual meeting of the Geological Society of 
America in Atlantic City, and in March 1958 he purchased some well- 
documented rhomboporoid Bryozoa collected from the middle Devo- 
nian Hamilton rocks of the Buffalo, N.Y., area. 

Dr. Porter M. Kier, associate curator of invertebrate paleontology 
and paleobotany, spent several days in October 1957 examining and 
studying Paleozoic echinoid collections at Yale University and Har- 
vard University. Here he discovered several type specimens never 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 29 

before recorded and four specimens which represent a new genus. 
Dr. Kier also attended the meetings of the Geological Society of 
America in Atlantic City. 

In October 1957 Dr. Peter P. Vaughn, associate curator of verte- 
brate paleontology, spent 3 days collecting t^trapods and the skulls 
of the rare nectridian Diploceraspis from the upper Mississippian 
formation near Greer, W. Va., and the Dunkard series, lower Per- 
mian formation of northern West Virginia and southwestern Pennsyl- 
vania. In November 1957 and again in February 1958 he spent 
several days at the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard 
University and the American Museum of Natural History examining 
and studying fossil amphibians, reptiles, and Permian vertebrates. 
From March 15 to May 17, 1958, Dr. Vaughn, accompanied by ex- 
hibits worker John E. Ott of the division of vertebrate paleontologj^ 
and ranger naturalist R. Donald Widman of the National Park 
Service, carried forward an extensive paleontological research pro- 
gram in Oklahoma, Texas, New Mexico, and Colorado. Their prin- 
cipal objective was collecting fishes, amphibians, and reptiles in the 
Permian beds. Several hundred pounds of fossils reached the IMu- 
seum as a result of their explorations. 

The administrative reorganization of July 1, 1957, created two 
units under the United States National Museum, namely the Museum 
of Natural History and the Museum of Plistory and Technology. The 
staff comprising the latter unit found it necessary to visit many of 
the museums, universities, and private collectors in order to exam- 
ine, study, purchase, and accept a variety of objects for the new 
museum. Every effort was made by the many recently employed 
specialists to acquire outstanding examples to illustrate their subject- 
matter fields. At the same time every opportunity was taken to per- 
fect their program of exhibition. Only the more important phases of 
this field work and travel program are here noted: 

The Director of the Museum of History and Teclniology, Frank A. 
Taylor, made three important trips in connection with the acquisition 
of objects and the use of inodern display methods as well as television 
facilities for the new museum under coiistruction. 

In keeping with the previous program of examining new exhibits 
and acquiring important apparatus to illustrate the development of 
the physical sciences. Dr. Robert P. Multhauf , head curator of science 
and technology, completed extensive field trips. From September 
15 to October 21 he visited various museums in Denver, Colo.; San 
Diego, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Oakland, Nevada City, Calif.; 
Ames and Iowa City, Iowa; Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind. ; 
and Marietta, Ohio ; and participated in a seminar on the history of 
science at the University of Wisconsin in Madison. In December 



30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

1957 he spent 2 days examining old chemical apparatus in the depart- 
ment of chemistry, University of Pennsylvania, with a view to ac- 
quiring the objects for the exhibits in the Museum of History and 
Technology. He also examined some of the rare physics apparatus 
at West Point and Columbia University. In January 1958 he ex- 
amined historic astronomical apparatus at Case Institute in Cleve- 
land. Since the College of William and Mary at Williamsburg was 
one of the lirst in this country to offer instruction in science, Dr. Mult- 
hauf spent 2 days there with Professor Pittman and President A. D. 
Chandler examining some of the old apparatus used in the teaching 
of physics. In April he visited Johns Hopkins University with a 
view to acquiring a balance and gas heating device associated with 
Ira Eemsen. In the department of mineralogy and geology he ex- 
plored the possibility of obtaining an early polarizing microscope. 

As consultant to the department of engineering for locating 19th- 
century chemical and physical laboratory apparatus to illustrate these 
disciplines in the new Museum of History and Teclmology, Dr. Derek 
J. Price again made numerous trips to museums, colleges, universi- 
ties, and laboratories. In September 1957 Dr. Price supervised the 
transfer of three machines pertaining to Henry Fitz, telescope maker, 
in 1850. These machines, together with his tools, speculum blanks, 
and many smaller items, should enable the Smithsonian to reconstruct 
in the Museum of History and Technology a vivid workshop of 
Henry Fitz. In the department of chemistry at Williams College 
he was pleased to find a rare cylindrical charcoal-burning chemical 
furnace made about 1830. This furnace is similar to those used 
centuries before. In the various colleges and universities visited 
Dr. Price made several detailed inventories of chemical and physi- 
cal apparatus which he regarded as worthy of consideration 
for plamied exhibits in the Museum of History and Technology. 

The curator of the division of mechanical and civil engineering, 
Eugene S. Ferguson, attended the annual meeting of the American 
Society of Tool Engineers, May 5-7, 1968. 

From March 24 to April 2 Howard I. Chapelle, curator of trans- 
portation, visited museums, collectors, and model-ship builders in 
Mystic and Essex, Conn.; Providence, E.I. ; Nantucket Island; and 
Salem, Quincy, and Boston, Mass. This trip will prove valuable 
in connection with the future exhibits of watercraft in the Museum 
of History and Technology. 

William N. Watkins, curator of agriculture and wood products, 
spent the last week of September and early October studying wood 
collections and logging dioramas at the College of Forestry, Syracuse 
University, and the Adirondack Museum at Blue Mountain Lake, 
N.Y. On February 24, 1958, Mr. Watkins conferred with Prof. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 31 

E.S. Harrar at Duke University School of Forestry, Durham, N.C., 
and studied microscopically many wood sections. 

Numerous trips were made by the acting curator of electricity, 
W. J. King, in an attempt to acquire original examples and models 
of early electrical equipment for the Museum of History and Tech- 
nology. In July he visited Great Barrington, IMass., to collect data 
on George Stanley and his 1886 installation of an AC power system. 
At Pittsfield he conferred with a descendant of S. F. B. Morse, the 
inventor of the telegraph. At Philadelphia he examined the 
Franklin Institute's stored collection of early electrical apparatus. 
In the fall and winter Mr. King spent some time in Philadelphia, 
New York City, and Schenectady, as well as at Princeton and Brown 
Universities. In May 1958 he spent several days in New York and 
New Jersey, especially at the R.C.A. plants and offices conferring 
with General Sarnoff and other members of his staff. Much time 
and study were devoted to identification of original electrical ap- 
paratus and going over notebooks of famous inventors such as 
Langmuir, Elihu Thomson, Morse, and Stanley. 

On October 2, 1957, George B. Griffenhagen, curator of medical 
sciences, accepted for the Smithsonian Institution a collection of 
rare antique drug jars donated by the Bristol-SIyers Co. in New York 
City. On January 10, while returning from New York, Mr. Griffen- 
hagen examined an early pharmaceutical tablet press which will be 
donated to the division by Wyeth Laboratories. From March 24 to 
27, 1958, he examined pharmaceutical and medical exhibits in Chicago 
and participated in the dedication of an 1890 drugstore restoration 
at the Wisconsin State Historical Society in Madison, Wis. In 
April he attended meetings of the American Institute of the History 
of Pharmacy and American Pharmaceutical Association Section on 
Historical Pharmacy in Los Aiigeles, Calif. 

During the past year, E. A. Battison, associate curator of mechan- 
ical and civil engineering, made several trips throughout the New 
England States, as well as New York and Pennsylvania, examining, 
collecting, and studying numerous private collections of clocks and 
watches ranging from the early handmade wooden clocks to the most 
recent electric watch. In addition to this special field, Mr. Battison 
examined and collected early machine tools, iron planer lathes, and 
locks. 

On ]May 12 and 13 Kenneth Id. Perry, associate curator of trans- 
portation, acquired a valuable collection of early marine engines, 
propellers, m.odels, harpoon heads, tools, and boat drawings assembled 
by Otis A. Palmer, East Moriches, Long Island, N.Y, 

From February 23 to March 1, E. C. Kendall, associate curator 
of agriculture and wood products, visited Hadley, Mass., Coopers- 



32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 58 

town, N.Y., and Kinzers, Pa., to examine and collect early examples 
of various types of farm machinery. 

At tlie invitation of Dr. J. Stainman, a practicing optometrist, 
Associate Curator of ]\Iedical Sciences Dr. Jolin B. Blake obtained a 
large collection of refracting instruments for the Smithsonian In- 
stitution on August 26, 1957. In September Dr. Blake spent several 
days in Boston and Salem, Mass., and New York City inspecting 
and studying collections relating to all phases of medical history. 
On October 10, 1957, he acquired a 35-year-old General Electric port- 
able X-ray machine in Baltimore, Md. On December 4 and 5 he 
examined, with a view to acquiring for the Museum of History and 
Technology, old dental instruments from the School of Dentistry 
at the Univei'sity of Pennsylvania. In New Yoik City and Long 
Island he obtained two cases of anesthesia material from the Wood 
Museum and Dr. W. H. Archer of Pittsburgh, Pa. From March 
16 to 22, 1958, he visited the Cleveland Health Museum and the Dit- 
trich Museum of Natural History examining a large collection of 
medical instruments ; and then proceeded to Chicago where he studied 
collections at the International College of Surgeons Hall of Fame, 
the Chicago Historical Society, and other museums. 

Robert M. Vogel, assistant curator of mechanical and civil en- 
gineering, spent considerable time throughout the year visiting the 
engineering schools in numerous universities and important engineer- 
ing plants inventorying and selecting examples of 19th- and early 
20th-century material for the planned exhibits in the new Museum 
of History and Technology. 

From October 25 to November 4, 1957, the head curator of arts 
and manufactures. Dr. P. Vf. Bishop, was in the vicinity of Pitts- 
burgh, Pa., Chicago, 111., and Dearborn, Mich., endeavoring to de- 
termine the type of engine used by Drake in his 1858-59 oil drilling. 
In Chicago, Dr. Bishop received excellent cooperation from the Ee- 
search Plant of Universal Oil Products in planning exhibit models 
showing various types of catalytic cracking units. In September 
he spent a day at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and 
another at Lakeville, Conn. 

The curator of graphic arts, Jacob Kainen, spent September 9 to 
13 in Cleveland looking toward the acquisition of early silk-screen 
stencil printing. He also continued his research on J. B. Jackson, 
going over references and prints by this artist. 

During December 11 to 14, 1957, Miss Grace L. Rogers, acting 
curator of textiles, studied various phases of the textile collection 
of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the exhibit at Amateur 
Needlework of Today, Inc., in New York City. She also conferred 
with the donor of an old Jacquard loom now being assembled. After 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 33 

several conferences Miss Rogers has received the cooperation of sev- 
eral wool, cotton, silk, and manmade-fiber institutes and associations 
in supplying material for the new textile exhibits planned for the 
Museum of History and Technology. In the latter part of March 
1958 Miss Eogers studied exhibit techniques and storage facilities 
at Winterthur Museum, Wilmington, Del. From May 4 to 7, 1958, 
she had the unique experience of examining a 3-story woolen mill just 
outside Excelsior Springs, north of Kansas City, Mo. This mill, 
known as the Watkins Woolen Mill, was closed in 1886, yet remained 
completely undisturbed up to the day of Miss Eogers' visit when 
the property was auctioned. She therefore had an opportunity to 
examine a middle 19th-century woolen mill even to the extent of 
seeing the original machines standing in the same position as they 
were in 1886, and in many instances the original leather belts were 
still attached to the main drive shafts. 

In September 1957 and again in March 1958 Paul V. Gardner, 
acting curator of ceramics and glass, visited museums and collector- 
dealers in New York City. He examined numerous collections of 
porcelain, glass, and enamels which will assist in identification of 
objects in his division; studied various methods of exhibition; and 
visited with philanthropical collectors who may present objects from 
their collections to the Smithsonian Institution. From May 21 to 27 
Mr. Gardner examined European porcelain and china-trade items 
at the Worcester Art Museum. He also visited collectors in Canton, 
Norwood, Newbury, Middleton, Sturbridge, and Boston, Mass. 

The head curator of civil history. Dr. Anthony N. B. Garvan, spent 
January 29, 1958, examining the well- documented Edward Andrews 
collection of Shaker material objects in New Haven, Comi. In Feb- 
ruary he visited Girard College in Philadelphia where he was given 
an opportunity to examine the Girard memorabilia. This collection 
represents an exceptional group of late Colonial and early Repub- 
lican examples of the history of taste. It depicts Girard's nostalgia 
for France, pride in American achievements, and his hobbies of music 
and numismatics. In April Dr. Garvan was iii New York City 
examining collections and consulting with experts on several phases 
of the new exhibits under his jurisdiction. 

On June 3 and 4, 1958, the acting curator of political history. 
Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, together with assistant curators Charles 
G. Dorman and Mrs. Anne W. Murray and museum aide James Chan- 
ning, visited the Chester County Historical Society, West Chester, 
Pa., Brandy wine Battlefield State Park, Winterthur Museum, and the 
Hagley Museum in Delaware. This provided the stajff with excep- 
tional opportunities to examine collections, study preservation tech- 
niques, and observe methods used in preparing exhibits. 



34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION; 195 8 

C. Malcolm Watkins, acting curator of cultui'al history, in col- 
laboration with the head curator of anthropology, F. M, Setzler, and 
Prof. Oscar Darter of Mary Washington College in Fredericks- 
burg, made considerable progress on the excavation of an 18th-cen- 
tury courthouse and 17th-century documentary research related to 
Marlborough Town, Va. The archeological excavations revealed the 
foundations of a T-shaped structure comparable to those well-preserved 
18th-century courthouses at Hanover, King William, and Charles 
City Counties, Va. In September Mr. Watkins spent several days 
searching documents at the Virginia State Librarj^, Richmond, in 
connection with the 1956 excavations at Marlborough Town, and a 
mass of data concerning Jolni Mercer and his mansion and estate 
at Marlborough. On November 30, 1957, he discovered a 1744^9 
ledger of John Mercer at the Bucks County Historical Society, 
Doylestown, Fa. This important document provides very pertinent 
information for the interpretation of the Marlborough site. In Oc- 
tober Mr. Watkins spent several days visiting various museums in 
connection with his long-range research program in the documenta- 
tion of 17th-century pottery. He spent December 4, 1957, at Winter- 
thur, Wilmington, Del., examining room interiors for consideration 
in plans of exhibition in the Museum of History and Technology. 

Throughout the year Francis J. McCall, assistant curator of phi- 
lately and postal history, made numerous trips to eastern sections of 
the country attending national and local philatelic meetings, display- 
ing selected postal material from the national collections, and describ- 
ing present and future programs in the division of philately. 

The curator of numismatics. Dr. V. Clain-Stefanelli, traveled ex- 
tensively in order to acquaint professional and amateur coin collectors 
with the program, plans, and needs of his division. During the latter 
part of August and again in December he conferred with Mrs. Rae V. 
Blester, superintendent of the United States Mint in Philadelphia. 
During September he interviewed various State bank commissioners 
in Connecticut. At Yale University he examined the famous Garvan 
collection of gold coins and conferred with the deputy keeper of coins 
of the British Museum. In October he attended several numismatic 
meetings and studied various aspects of ancient coining techniques at 
the Fogg Art Museum in Boston. From May 20 to 24, 1958, Dr. 
Stefanelli visited Ottawa where he interviewed officials at the British 
American Bank Note Co., the Bank of Canada, Canadian Archives, 
and the Canadian Mint. In the Canadian Archives he examined a 
rare 1792 Indian Peace Medal. At the mint he examined coins, medals, 
and special decorations. As a result of his visit, the division will 
receive a special set of mint coins. In June he visited the headquartei-s 
of the Georgia State Bank in Atlanta, as well as Dahloneya, site of the 
old United States branch mint. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 35 

The associate curator of political history, Mrs. Margaret B. Klap- 
thor, visited James Goodin of Eeiglesville, Pa., where she inspected 
authentic costumes of President Madison's family, especially the re- 
cently discovered dress, shoes, gloves, and turban of Dolley iladison. 
In New York City she accepted delivery of Lincoln relics offered to 
the museum by Lincoln Isham. 

Charles G. Dorman, assistant curator of political history, visited 
Albany Institute of History; the home of Gen. Philip Schuyler in 
Albany ; Fort Crailo in Kensselaer, N. Y. ; Bennington Historical Mu- 
semn; Shelburne Museum near Burlington, Vt. ; and other historic 
houses in New England. In February 1948 he carried forward 
research at the Historical Society of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. 

From September 23 to 27, 1957, the associate curator of cultural 
history, G. Carroll Lindsay, examined archives in Richmond, Isle of 
Wight, and Southampton courthouses in order to document the panel- 
ing now on exhibition in the Virginia Eoom. He established owner- 
ship of the property from the time of the original patent in the 17th 
century. He spent March 30 to April 4, 1958, in Alton, 111., selecting 
objects from a large collection of decorative art objects of the Victorian 
period (1850-1915) which had been willed to the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution by the late Miss Daisy Templin and donated by her living 
brother, Roger Pryor Templin. On June 10 Mr. Lindsay acquired at 
the Parke-Bernet Galleries a life-size cigar-store Indian princess 
through the generosity of Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather Post May. 

Miss Rodris C. Roth, assistant curator of cultural history, spent 
October 25 to November 4, 1957, in Boston, Salem, Worcester, New- 
buryport, Mass., and New York City studying period rooms and deco- 
rative arts related to American and English interior decorations in 
the 17th, 18th, and early 19th centuries. 

The head curator of armed forces history, Mendel L. Peterson, 
spent 3 days in September 1957 probing the Pamunkey River, 25 
miles northeast of Riclunond, to locate a shipwreck believed to have 
been sunk during General McClellan's drive on Richmond in 1862. 
Together with a professional diver, Mr. Peterson found the wreck 
in 15 feet of muddy water. By the use of anchor chains, to prevent 
injury to themselves, they were able to examine and partially identify 
the vessel. Thus far no documentation concerning the sinkmg of 
such a vessel has been discovered in Civil War archives. The hull 
measured at least 200 feet in length; it was burned before sinking; 
the bow section had broken away from the hull probably through an 
explosion of gunpowder or boiler. A few days in February and 
again in March Mr. Peterson studied archival records at the New 
York Public Library and consulted with Edwin A. Link on plans 
for a continuation of their program of miderwater salvage of historic 
vessels. 



36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 58 

In September 1957 E. M. Howell, acting curator of military history, 
spent 3 days in Chicago and Milwaukee studying collections of arms 
and armor at various museums. In March 1958 he visited the Metro- 
politan Museum of Art and New York Historical Society examining 
collections of powderhorns, Colt revolvers, Revolutionary War Brit- 
ish insignia, and colonial-type armor. 

Through an exchange the Museum acquired an 1866 model Catling 
gun, which was examined and reported upon by Craddock R. Coins, 
Jr., assistant curator of military history. Late in January 1958 
Mr. Coins made an extensive trip to the major firearms manufactur- 
ing firms in the vicinity of Bridgeport, New Haven, and Hartford, 
Conn., and Springfield and Chicopee Falls, Mass. 

John E. Anglim, supervisory exhibits specialist, spent 2 days in 
Williamsburg, Va., inspecting a variety of exhibition cases, panel, 
grid, and light systems. He also studied the interiors of the re- 
stored buildings for ideas that might be included in the hall of 
18th- and 19th-century furnisliings of the Musemn of Histoi-y and 
Teclmology. 

In preparation of designing an exhibit to portray hand and photo- 
mechanical printing processes, Miss Judith Borgogni, exhibits 
worker, visited the New York Public Library in February 1958. To- 
gether with exhibits worker Robert B. Widder, she critically exam- 
ined the display methods used in the University of Pennsylvania 
Museum and the Philadelphia Museum of Art. 

Consultant John C. Widener and exhibits worker Thomas G. Baker 
spent several days in February 1958 visiting chemical and plastics 
manufacturing companies in order to determine the most feasible 
method for exhibiting the Museum's large blue whale. 

A detailed analysis of the arms and armor exhibition of the Metro- 
politan Museum of Art was made by exhibits worker William B. 
Eddy in March 1958. He also scrutinized a variety of exhibits at the 
Museum of the City of New York and at the American Museum of 
Natural History. 

In connection with the planning of a hall of photographic history 
in the Museum of History and Technology, Mrs. B. A. W. Karras, 
exhibits worker, spent 4 days in April 1958 reviewing the highly 
specialized exhibit at George Eastman House, Rochester, N. Y. Even 
though teclinical exhibits comparable to those at Eastman House 
will be presented, they must be geared simply and graphically to the 
average visitor both as a source of study and for pure enjoyment. 

During February 1958 exhibits specialist Benjamin Lawless, Jr., 
and exhibits worker Robert B. Widder made extensive examinations 
of museum displays, new buildings under construction, and archi- 
tectural offices ui New York City. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 37 

From March 12 to 15, 1958, Ronald Tavares, exhibits worker, 
visited the Metropolitan Museum of Art ; the Museimi of the City of 
New York; the Peabody Museum of Salem; and the Boston Fine 
Arts Museum of Massachusetts. He was especially interested in 
those exhibits illustrating the development and history of water- 
craft. 

William L. Brown, chief zoological exhibits specialist, inspected the 
tanning of a large elephant hide at Waynesboro, Va., on several days 
during the month of October 1957. 

From October 8 to 11, 1957, Watson M. Perry go, zoological ex- 
hibits worker, visited New York City and Philadelphia where he 
investigated various plastic-manufacturing companies in order to 
produce on a large scale museum accessories such as leaves, vines, 
branches, grass, and other botanical objects. In November 1957 he 
spent 3 days with George Young, chief of the exhibition department 
at Kansas University Natural History Museum. Here he had an 
opportunity to study methods of making plastic exhibition accessories 
by hydraulic press. 

Jolin C. Lingebach, zoological exhibits worker, spent several days 
in April 1958 collecting a variety of mammals for the exhibits now 
under construction in the mammal hall. Most of Mr. Lingebach's 
collecting on this trip and again in May was in the vicinity of 
Wardensville, Yellow Springs, Nortli Mountain, and Capon Springs, 
W. Va. 

EXHIBITIONS 

During the fifth year of the continuing program for the moderni- 
zation of exhibits at the Smithsonian Institution, $605,000 was made 
available by congressional appropriation for selected exhibition halls. 
Construction bids were received in February 1958 for the halls de- 
voted to fossil invertebrates and fossil cold-blooded vertebrates 
(fishes, amphibians, and reptiles), in June 1958 for North American 
archeology, and in June 1958 for the hall of agriculture to be located 
in the east-south range of the Arts and Industries building. Con- 
struction work for the textiles hall was commenced in September 
1957. 

The new hall of health was opened to the public on the evening of 
November 2, 1957, in ceremonies featuring addresses by Dr. John D. 
Porterfield, Deputy Surgeon General of the Public Health Service, 
Dr. Fred L. Soper, Director of the Pan American Sanitary Bureau, 
and Dr. Leonard Carmichael, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. "Through the Ages, Man's Knowledge of His Body" is the 
theme of this hall, which contrasts old ideas with present-day knowl- 
edge of human anatomy and physiology. Emphasis is placed on 
health rather than disease, and modern exhibit techniques are utilized 



38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 58 

to demonstrate the functioning of a the normal, healthy human body. 
A transparent manikin of a woman shows by electronic devices, light, 
and sound the location of the major organs of the human body and 
explains their functions. Among other exhibits are those that illus- 
trate the heart, teeth, endocrine glands, and the brain. Historical 
displays include reproductions of votive offerings by primitive peo- 
ples, ancient manuscripts, and pages from the earliest printed books 
illustrating embryology, the skeleton, the heart and blood circulation, 
the brain, and the digestive and respiratory systems. 

During the year a pictorial exhibit on the history of surgery, 
donated by the American Cyanamid Co., was renovated. The Na- 
tional Library of Medicine has lent the following exhibits : Vaccina- 
tion from Jenner to Salk ; Nobel Prize Winners in Medicine ; William 
Harvey and the Circulation; and Women Physicians and Their 
Hospitals. 

On the evening of December 8, 1957, Secretary Carmichael dedi- 
cated the hall of North American Indians and Eskimos, and in his 
address paid tribute to the farsighted men and women who had dur- 
ing the past 150 years saved from possible destruction the ethnological 
objects displayed therein. Mrs. Mabel A. Byrd, administrative as- 
sistant to the Director of the National Museum and herself of Seneca 
Indian descent, was invited to cut the ribbon at the formal opening. 
Traditional cultures of the Eskimos and of the Indians of the sub- 
arctic region, the eastern woodlands, the great plains, the northwest- 
ern plateau, and the north Pacific coast are displayed in this hall. 
Historically significant objects including the great wampum belt, 
symbolizing the union of midwestern tribes formed by the Shawnee 
chief Tecumseh to halt the advance of white settlement, and Sitting 
Bull's rifle are featured in these display units. A completely fur- 
nished tipi of sewn buffalo hides, some 17 feet in height, depicts the 
home life of an Arapaho Indian family during the past century. 
Other life-size exhibit units show Polar Eskimos hunting hair seals 
and the Powhatan Indians trading with Capt. John Smith on the 
James River in 1607. 

The gems and minerals hall planned by curator George S. Switzer 
was nearing completion at the close of the fiscal year. New exhibition 
techniques have been utilized in the display of gems, uncut crystals, 
and minerals with gratifying results, particularly with respect to 
lighting and reduction of reflection. Installation of the exhibits pro- 
ceeded so satisfactorily that formal opening of the hall was scheduled 
for July 1958. 

Four new habitat groups portraying the sea-bottom life of the 
Upper Ordovician, Lower Devonian, Mississippian, and Upper Cre- 
taceous are being prepared for the invertebrate hall by George 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 39 

Marchand of Ann Arbor, Mich. The removal of adhering matrix 
and the restoration and mounting of a number of fossil fishes and 
amphibians for display in the hall of cold-blooded vertebrates were 
completed. Retirement of a portion of the geology and meteorite 
collections from hall 6 was undertaken to permit the continued dis- 
play of the larger Pleistocene mammals. 

A group of showy mineral specimens from Arizona and a large 
mass of uranium ore from Colorado were lent for exhibition in the 
United States Pavilion at the Brussel's World Fair. 

Plans for the modernization of the two halls to be devoted to North 
American archeology were developed by Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, curator 
of archeology. In the first hall now scheduled for construction, 
archeological horizons of the southwestern United States, the Pacific 
coast, and Arctic America will be featured. Topical exhibits will 
show native mines and quarries, Indian smoking devices, and trade 
items found in Indian sites. 

At the close of the fiscal year the contractors had almost finished 
the construction of the walls and display units in the two halls to be 
devoted to the mammals of the world. Preliminary models of the 
habitat groups have been prepared for guidance of the exhibits staff, 
accessories for some of the habitat groups are now ready for installa- 
tion, and a number of mammals required for the display units have 
been mounted. During the year the rooms formerly given over to 
the display of local natural history, other than birds, were more 
urgently needed for other purposes, and, consequently, these displays 
were dismantled. Wlien space becomes available, more informative 
exhibits will be installed. 

The formal opening of the hall of military history on the afternoon 
of June 14, 1958, was presided over by Secretary Leonard Carmichael, 
who introduced the Honorable Wilber M. Brucker, Secretary of the 
Army, who in turn introduced Gen. Lyman L. liemnitzer. Vice Chief 
of Staff, United States Army, and members of their staffs. Secre- 
tary Brucker made reference to the Institution's important role in 
encouraging patriotism through the exhibits that interpret the 
Army's long and distinguished role in the history of our country. 
At the close of these indoor ceremonies, Secretary Brucker was hon- 
ored by a colorful retreat review by the First Battle Group, Third 
Infantry Regiment, on the Mall. In the new hall the history and 
development of the United States Army from the Colonial militia 
to the modem Pentomic Army are traced through the display of fire- 
arms, uniforms, weapons, and other items of military equipment. 
Unique objects on display include George Washington's sword carried 
in battle throughout the Revolution and the uniform he wore when 

492520—59 i 



40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

he resigned his commission in 1783, De Kalb's war saddle, an original 
Von Steuben drill manual, Kochambeau's sword, and the uniform 
coat worn by General Jackson at the Battle of New Orleans. 

The series of new exhibits illustrating the history and methods of 
fine printmaking by various hand processes in the graphic arts hall of 
the Smithsonian Institution Building was completed at the close of 
the fiscal year. Montlily exhibitions of pictorial photography were 
continued during the past year, and three special exhibits in graphic 
arts were shown. 

The east side of the inorganic chemistry gallery was rearranged to 
accommodate the leather and saddlery display removed from the 
south-central gallery. 

Temporary exhibitions during the year included the Sixth Interna- 
tional Exhibition of Ceramic Art, August 27 to September 27, 1957, 
sponsored by the Kiln Club of Washington, and a display of over 700 
pieces of ancient glass from the Ray Winfield Smith collection dating 
from 1500 B.C. to A.D. 1200, shown December 28, 1957, to January 
16, 1958. 

Existing exhibits were improved during the year by restoration of 
the Henry electromagnet and the Morse telegraph, the renovation of 
the collection of antique astrolabes, sundials, and compasses, and the 
renovation of the Howard tower clock. Ship models in the water- 
craft hall were repaired and restored. 

In the planning for the exhibition series in the Museum of History 
and Technology, the following hall plans have been furnished to the 
architect for the detailing of built-in fixtures : Physics and astronomy, 
chemistry, heavy machinery, medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, elec- 
tricity, watercraft, ceramics, glass, textiles, graphic arts, and 
photography. 

The south hall of the Arts and Industries Building was closed to 
the public in July 1957 ; the former exhibits of textiles were dismantled 
and the specimens placed in storage. The contractors commenced the 
renovation of this hall in September 1957, and b}^ the close of the fiscal 
year some progress had been made in the installation of the new ex- 
hibits. Three schematics illustrating various spinning principles 
have been built and installed, and the renovation of five full-sized ma- 
chines has been completed. For the gallery of this south hall, plans 
for renovation were completed, and a contract for the necessary con- 
struction was awarded in April 1958. In this gallery, methods of 
printing fabrics, specimens of needlework, and the history of the sew- 
ing machine will be featured. 

Plans and designs for four halls in the Museum of History and 
Technology which will emphasize different aspects of the civil history 
of our Nation were completed. These halls have been designated as 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 41 

follows : Historic Americans ; Everyday Life in the American Past ; 
Costumes; and First Ladies. Rearrangement and expansion of the 
White House china collection were effected during the year. 

The educational program of volunteer docent guide service con- 
ducted with the cooperative assistance of the Junior League of 
Washington, for the benefit of the school children of the Greater 
Washington area, was continued with increasing success. The work 
is under the general direction of Frank M. Setzler, head curator of 
anthropology, working with Mrs. Peter Macdonald, chairman rep- 
resenting the Junior League. 

During the 6-month season 320 tours — an average of 53 a month — 
were conducted, in which 8,790 elementary school children were es- 
corted through the four exhibit halls included in the docent 
program — the American Indian Hall, the Hall of Everyday Life in 
Early America, the First Ladies Hall, and the Hall of Power Ma- 
chinery. This was an almost threefold increase in this activity over 
the previous year. In addition to Mrs. Macdonald and her cochair- 
man, Mrs. George Wyeth, Jr., the following members of the Junior 
League participated in the work of conducting the tours: Mrs. 
George A. Armstrong, Mrs. John K. Barry, Miss Eleanor Bishop, 
Mrs. G. Edwin Brown, Jr., Miss Joan Burke, Mrs. Paul Campbell, 
Mrs. Dean Cowie, Mrs. Charles Donnelly, Mrs. Walter Edwards, Mrs. 
C. Clarke Gearhart, Mrs. Walter A. Graves, Mrs. H. F. Gregory, 
Mrs. R. David Herdman, Mrs. Edward M. Lamont, Mrs. John A, 
Manfuso, Jr., Mrs. William McClure, Mrs. Robert L. McCormick, 
Mrs. William E. Minshall, Jr., Mrs. John Schoenfeld, Mrs. W. D. 
Sloan, Jr., Mrs. Walter Slowinski, Mrs. E. Tillman Stirling, Mrs. 
Richard F. Wallis. 

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT 

At the close of the fiscal year, the temporary buildings on the site 
for the new Museum of History and Technology were being torn 
down to clear the land. The architects, McKim, Mead &, White, sub- 
mitted drawings for the entire building in the tentative stage, made 
excellent progress on the working drawings, and completed the speci- 
fications and drawings for the excavation and foundations. The de- 
sign of this museum building previously approved by the Board of 
Regents of the Institution, with the advice of the Joint Congressional 
Committee, was approved unanimously by the Commission of Fine 
Arts. The National Capital Planning Commission approved the 
location of the building on the site. 

Senator Clinton P. Anderson, chairman of the Joint Committee 
on Construction of a Building for the Museum of History and Tech- 
nology for the Smithsonian Institution, submitted to the United 



42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

States Senate a report from the committee which reviews the legisla- 
tive history of the building and the progress made in its design. 
This report was printed as Senate No. 1437, 85th Congress, 2d session, 
April 16, 1958. 

Planning for this new building was directed by Frank A. Taylor, 
Director of the Museum of History and Technology. Designs for 
most of the exhibition halls requiring special architectural treatment 
were completed by the Museum staff, and the architects prepared 
the working drawings. John C. Ewers, administrative officer, di- 
rected the Museum staff engaged in the planning of all mterior areas. 
Eugene Kingman, Director of the Josyln Art Museum, Omaha, 
reviewed many of the plans for exhibition halls and contributed 
constructive criticism. 

Funds for the design and the preparation of working drawings 
for the construction of additions to the Natural History Building 
were appropriated by Congress. The architects. Mills, Petticord & 
Mills, have submitted tentative drawings with a model of the building 
when completed and have made excellent progress with the working 
drawings. The Museum committee for the planning of the wings 
under the chairmanship of Dr. T. Dale Stewart, together with the 
curators of the natural history divisions, completed a detailed pro- 
gram of requirements which materially advanced the preparation of 
plans and estimates. 

Throughout the year's planning of the two building projects, the 
Public Buildings Service of the General Services Administration 
contributed valuable advice and assistance in advancing, coordinating, 
and approving the plans. Leonard L. Hunter, Assistant Commis- 
sioner for Design and Construction, gave helpful advice and pro- 
fessional direction to the progress of the work through the various 
technical stages and presented the building plans before the approv- 
ing agencies. Many of his colleagues materially advanced these 
projects. John E. Cudd, architect of the Public Buildings Service, 
assigned as liaison to the Smithsonian Institution, contributed greatly 
to all phases of the two projects, assembling data on requirements, 
advising the Museum staff on the arrangement of their planned facili- 
ties, and assisting the architects in arranging discussions and ob- 
taining decisions on many questions of design and procedure. 

Contracts were let for completion of the replacement of the roof 
covering on the Natural History Building, the first phase of which 
was completed in the fiscal year of 1957. The work will include 
covering all skylights with metal and the installation of fluorescent 
lighting above the laylight glass. Covering of the skylights will 
permit uniform lighting in the three large halls and eliminate water 
leakage, which is impossible to control fully in large areas of skylight 
glass. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 43 

The west shipping entrance of the Natural History Building was 
remodeled to provide a stockroom for the supply division and a more 
adequate mail room, utilizing space heretofore used to garage Smith- 
sonian trucks. An additional shipping entrance door was provided 
by remodeling a window between the two existing doors. Supply 
division offices were moved into the former stockroom after that 
space was renovated. 

Meeting room 43 was completely renovated. The work included an 
acoustic tile ceiling, additional lighting, relocation of the projection 
equipment, a new projection screen, tile floor covering, and improved 
ventilation. 

All exterior windows of the Arts and Industries Building were 
painted, and new glass to provide better illumination was installed in 
the large windows of the exhibit halls. 

New concrete sidewalks were laid along both sides of the west serv- 
ice road, Arts and Industries Building. A new service road was 
laid along the west side of this building, and the service road along 
the east side was resurfaced. Completion of this project eliminated 
service hazards. 

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF 

Effective July 1, 1957, the United States National Museum con- 
sists of two units, namely, the Museum of Natural History (with its 
four departments of anthropology, zoology, botany, and geology) and 
the Museum of History and Technology (with its four departments 
of science and technology, arts and manufactures, civil history, and 
Armed Forces history). Under this new organizational setup, the 
old department of engineering and industries and the department of 
liistory were abolished. 

Frank A. Taylor was promoted to Director of the Museum of 
History and Technology on April 16, 1958. 

In the department of civil history. Dr. Anthony N. B. Garvan 
accepted an appointment as head curator on October 9, 1957. Paul 
V. Gardner, on July 1, 1957, was transferred from the National Col- 
lection of Fine Arts to the position of acting curator of ceramics and 
glass; Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli was appointed assistant curator of 
numismatics on September 23, 1957 ; and Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn 
became acting curator of political history on February 3, 1958. 

Vacancies in the department of science and technology were filled 
by the appointment of Dr. John B. Blake as associate curator of 
medical sciences on July 1, 1957 ; liobert M. Vogel as assistant curator 
of mechanical and civil engineering on July 22, 1957; Howard I. 
Chapelle as curator of transportation on September 3, 1957; and 
Eugene S. Ferguson as curator of mechanical and civil engineering 



44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

on January 30, 1958. Dr. Derek Price, consultant for exhibits of 
13hysics and astronomy, completed his assignment on January 3, 1958. 

In the department of geology, Dr. Kichard S. Boardman transferred 
from the U.S. Geological Survey to the division of invertebrate 
paleontology and paleobotany on July 1, 1957 ; Dr. Peter P. Vaughn 
accepted an appointment as associate curator of vertebrate paleon- 
tology effective July 15, 1957 ; Paul E. Desautels was appointed as- 
sociate curator of mineralogy and petrology on August 5, 1957 ; and 
Roy S. Clarke, Jr., transferred as chemist to the division of min- 
eralogy and petrology from the U.S. Geological Survey on October 
21, 1957. Dr. Porter M. Kier, appointed associate curator of mverte- 
brate paleontology and paleobotany on June 16, 1957, was inadvert- 
ently omitted from the list of new appointments during the previous 
fiscal year. 

Dr. Ralph S. Solecki accepted an appointment of associate curator 
of x^rehistoric Old World archeology on August 26, 1957, following 
his return from archeological fieldwork on the Shanidar, Iraq, 
project. 

On March 27, 1958, Bela S. Bory was appointed supervisory ex- 
hibits specialist and placed in charge of the production laboratory 
of the Museum of History and Technology. 

J. Russell Sirlouis, assistant curator of military history, retired 
on June 30, 1957, after 42 years of service with the Institution. 

Robert S. Woodbury, curator in charge of the sections of civil 
and mechanical engineering, resigned July 9, 1957, to return to his 
former position at the INIassachusetts Institute of Teclinology. 

Grace E. Glance, associate curator of entomology, retired July 
31, 1957. Miss Glance transferred to the division of entomology 
from the U.S. Department of Agriculture in 1948 after having been 
employed in the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine since 
1925. ' 

Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., associate curator of philately and postal 
history, by lateral transfer on November 18, 1957, became director 
of the division of philately of the Post Office Department. 

Herbert W. Krieger, curator of ethnology, retired November 30, 
1957, after having served 33 years in the department of anthropology. 
Mr. Krieger had participated in fieldwork sponsored by the Insti- 
tution in southeast Alaska, Santo Domingo, Haiti, Cuba, the Bahama 
Islands, and the Virgin Islands. 

After having served more than 43 years as taxidermist on the 
exhibits staff, Charles R. Aschemeier retired May 31, 1958. He repre- 
sented the Smithsonian Institution on the Collins-Garner Expedition 
to the Fornan Vaz District of Belgian Congo, where fieldwork was 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 45 

continued for more than 2 years as a result of transportation diffi- 
culties during World War I. 

Lee L. Buchanan, research associate in entomology, died in Wash- 
ington, D.C., on February 15, 1958. Buchanan, an authority on 
weevils, had served as assistant biologist in the Bureau of Biological 
Survey from 1917 to 1929, and remained in the U.S. Department of 
Agriculture Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine from 1929 
to 1949 when he retired for health reasons. He was appointed a 
specialist for the Casey Collection of Coleoptera on April 1, 1926. 

Dr. Harriet Richardson Searle, collaborator since January 11, 1901, 
and research associate in zoology since December 27, 1956, died in 
Washington, D.C., on March 28, 1958. Dr. Richardson was a world 
authority on the isopod crustaceans and published more than 80 
papers, including the monograph of the isopods of North America 
which appeared in 1905 and which is still a standard reference work 
on the group. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Remington Kellogg, Director. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Bureau of American 
Ethnology 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field 
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended Jime 30, 1958, conducted 
in accordance with the act of Congress of April 10, 1928, as amended 
August 22, 1949, which directs the Bureau "to continue independently 
or in cooperation anthropological researches among the American 
Indians and the natives of lands under the jurisdiction or protection 
of the United States and the excavation and preservation of archeo- 
logic remains." 

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES 

(Prepared from data submitted by staff members.) 

Dr. M. W. Stirling, Chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology 
from 1928 to 1947 and Director since 1947, retired on December 31, 
1957. At that time he was appointed a research associate. During 
the period from July 1 to December 31, 1957, Dr. Stirling devoted 
most of his time to administrative duties and the preparation of a 
manuscript pertaining to previous fieldwork in Panama and Ecuador. 
Effective January 1, 1958, Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Associate 
Director, was appointed Director. He also continued to be in charge 
of the River Basin Surveys. 

During the fiscal year Dr. Roberts devoted most of his time to the 
management of the River Basin Surveys and subsequently to the 
duties of the main Bureau office. In July and early August he made 
an inspection trip to the Alissouri Basin where he visited all the ex- 
cavation parties of the River Basin Surveys and also several of those 
from cooperating institutions. He was accompanied by Dr. Robert 
L. Stephenson, chief of the Missouri Basin Project, Dr. John M. Cor- 
bett, National Park Service archeologist, and Paul L. Beaubien, re- 
gional archeologist for Region Two of the Service. Late in April 
Dr. Roberts went to the field headquarters at Lincoln, Nebr., to assist 
in preparing plans for the field season in the Missouri Basin. From 
Lincoln, in company with several members of the Missouri Basin 
Project staff, he went to Norman, Okla., to attend and participate in 
the amiual meeting of the Society for American Archeology. From 
here the group proceeded to Russellville, Ark., where it inspected the 

46 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 47 

excavations being carried on by a Eiver Basin Surveys party in the 
Dardanelle Reservoir area. En route back to Lincoln a stop was 
made at the University of Arkansas at Fayetteville, and a number 
of collections of archeological material in the museum there were ex- 
amined. After spending several additional days at Lincoln studying 
the operations of the office and laboratory, Dr. Roberts returned to 
Washington and was in the office at the close of the year. During the 
fall and winter months Dr. Roberts reviewed and suggested changes 
in the manuscripts of several detailed, technical reports on the results 
of excavations at sites in the Missouri Basin and other areas. 

Dr. Henry B. Collins, anthropologist, continued his Eskimo studies 
and other Arctic activities. He prepared an article on Eskimo art 
for the Enciclopedia Universale DeWArte, a 14- volume work to be 
published in Italian and English by the Istituto per la Collabora- 
zione Culturale, Rome. His paper "Present Status of the Dorset 
Problem," which he presented at the 32d International Congress of 
Americanists in Copenhagen, was published in the Proceedings of the 
Congress. 

In May Dr. Collins participated in an international conference on 
Arctic anthropology held at the Danish National Museum in Copen- 
hagen. Also attending were five anthropologists from the United 
States, one from Canada, four each from Denmark and the 
U.S.S.R., and two each from Norway, Sweden, and Finland. The 
purpose of the meeting was to discuss plans for closer international 
cooperation in Arctic anthropology. Following the conference Dr. 
Collins visited a large Mesolithic site, Kongemosen, representing the 
formative stage of the Ertebolle culture, and two other Mesolithic 
sites at Eriksholm and Langtved, near Holbaek. 

Dr. Collins continued to serve on the publications and research 
committees of the Arctic Institute of North America, as well as on 
the committee which plans the research program of the Arctic Re- 
search Laboratory at Point Barrow, operated by the Office of Naval 
Research. He also continued as chairman of the Directing Commit- 
tee which plans and supervises the work of the Arctic Bibliography, 
a comprehensive annotated and indexed bibliography of publications 
in all fields of science relating to the Arctic and sub- Arctic regions 
of America and Eurasia. The work is being prepared by the Arctic 
Institute of North America for the Department of Defense. Volume 
8 of the Bibliography, which abstracts and indexes the contents of 
5,623 publications in English, Russian, German, and the Scandinavian 
and 17 other languages, was delivered to the Government Printing 
Office in June. This makes a total of 49,087 publications that have 
been abstracted thus far in Arctic Bibliography. 



48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

Dr. William C. Sturtevant, ethnologist, spent the week of July 29- 
August 4, 1957, in South Carolina working with the last living speaker 
of any of the Siouan languages of the east — a Catawba man 85 years 
old. The informant proved somewhat less than satisfactory, owing 
to his age and rather poor recall of a language he has not spoken for 
some years. However, a vocabulary file of a few hundred entries was 
built up, and several short texts and songs were collected. In addition 
to transcription in a phonetic orthography, all materials were re- 
corded with a tape recorder, to form a permanent record of a different 
nature than the Catawba linguistic materials collected by others be- 
fore the advent of convenient mechanical recording devices with good 
fidelity. The language has not yet been adequately analyzed, nor 
has its precise relationship to other Siouan languages been established ; 
the tape recording will be invaluable when these tasks are eventually 
undertaken. 

Dr. Sturtevant spent 7 weeks continuing his field research among 
the New York State Seneca, during four separate trips. In September 
he devoted 10 days to close observation of the work of a skilled 
Seneca mask carver on the Allegany Eeservation, making detailed 
notes on his construction techniques and taldng nmnerous pliotographs 
to document the various steps in the process. For a few days of this 
period Dr. Sturtevant received valuable assistance from Dr. William 
H. Davenport of Yale University, a specialist on primitive art. It 
became evident during this fieldwork that observation of construction 
is an essential preliminary to the structural analysis of the forms of 
these Seneca masks and will be of considerable assistance in the ethno- 
esthetic study initiated during the previous fiscal year. During Jan- 
uary and February, Dr. Sturtevant spent about 2 weeks on the 
Cattaraug-us Eeservation attending the annual midwinter ceremony 
of this Seneca group and discussing it with participants. The data 
obtained form part of a continuing study of the religion of this com- 
munity, which has previously received little attention from ethnolo- 
gists, in contrast to most other Iroquois non-Christian communities. 

In April 1958, Dr. Sturtevant visited Gainesville, Fla., for consul- 
tations on Florida anthropology with Dr. John M. Goggin. From 
there he traveled to Oklahoma via Montgomery, Ala. (where he ex- 
amined the collections of the Alabama Department of Archives and 
History), and the region around Philadelphia, Miss, (where he spent 
three days surveying the possibilities for research among the Missis- 
sippi Choctaw). In Oklahoma he examined the photograph and 
specimen collections of the Oklahoma Historical Society, attended 
the joint annual meetings of the Society for American Archeology 
and the Central States Anthropological Society, and had brief con- 
tacts with members of several Oldahoma tribes. Dr. Sturtevant also 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 49 

attended the 11th Conference on Iroquois Kesearch at Red House, 
N.Y., in October 1957. At these latter two professional meetings he 
delivered three papers. In December 1957 he attended the Ameri- 
can Anthropological Association meetings in Chicago (where he also 
examined an important collection of Seminole artifacts and a large 
newly discovered collection of early photographs of the Seminole). 

In May and June 1958, Dr. Sturtevant returned for three weeks 
to the Allegany Reservation, where he concentrated on study of social 
organization, particularly residence patterns. These data should 
prove valuable for comparison with similar information, as yet un- 
published, collected some 25 years ago on this reservation by Dr. Wil- 
liam N. Fenton. Furthermore, the community studied is threatened 
with removal to make way for flooding of a large part of the reserva- 
tion by the proposed Kinzua dam. If the dam is built, present resi- 
dence patterns can then be compared with residence after relocation 
of the community. The nearly unanimous opposition of the Indians 
to relocation makes research of this sort rather difScult. 

Dr. Sturtevant's office work included continuation of his research 
on the Florida Seminole, on which a paper was published in Publica- 
tion No. 5 of the Florida Anthropological Society, and work on a 
paper on the historical ethnobotany of the cycad Zamia. 

At the beginning of the fiscal year Carl F. Miller was continuing 
the excavations by the Smithsonian Institution-National Geographic 
Society Expedition at Russell Cave in Alabama. The work continued 
until the end of August, and during that period a section of the cave 
floor was excavated to a depth of 32 feet, where a water table was 
encountered and it was necessary to stop the digging. During the 
course of the work the skeletal remains of a very young infant were 
found at a depth of approximately 4 feet. On the basis of a carbon- 
14 date obtained during the previous season's investigations at the 
cave, it is estimated that the burial was approximately 5,000 years 
old. There were no accompanying mortuary offerings, but the de- 
posits where the remains were interred indicated that the Early 
Woodland Period was represented. The partially flexed remains of 
an adult male were foimd 8% feet below the floor level and it also 
lacked any accompanying offerings. The burial probably was made 
about 7,000 years ago. The material from the deposits indicates that 
potterymaking began in that area at about 3500 B.C. Prior to that 
time the people apparently had a completely hunting-fishing economy. 
A large series of implements, discarded animal bones, and other ma- 
terials was obtained from the lower deposits, and at a depth of 23 
feet the remains of a hearth were uncovered. Charcoal from that 
hearth was recently dated by Dr. H. R. Crane at the University of 
Micliigan as being 9,020 ±350 years old. The Russell Cave Expedi- 



50 AKNtJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 58 

tion brought back to the Smithsonian Institution somewhat more than 
a ton and a half of material for study and exliibit purposes. 

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS 

The Eiver Basin Surveys, in cooperation with the National Park 
Service and the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the 
Interior, the Corps of Engineers of the Department of the Army, and 
various State and local institutions, continued its program for salvage 
archeology in areas to be flooded or otherwise destroyed by the con- 
struction of large dams. During the fiscal year 1957-58 the program 
was financed by a transfer of $175,624 from the National Park Serv- 
ice to the Smithsonian Institution. Of that amount $157,624 was 
for use in the Missouri Basin and the remainder covered operations 
in other areas. A carryover of $15,902 from the Missouri Basin 
funds for the preceding fiscal year made the total available for the 
Missouri Basin $173,526. The over-all total for the year was $191,526. 
The amount of available money was somewhat larger than during 
the previous fiscal year, and the increase was reflected in the work 
accomplished. 

Field investigation during the year consisted mainly of excavations, 
although some surveys were carried on in several areas. On June 1, 
1957, nine parties were in the field. Four were doing intensive dig- 
ging in the Great Bend Eeservoir area and four were making ex- 
cavations in the Oahe Eeservoir area, both projects being located 
in South Dakota. A survey party covered portions of the Big Bend 
area, which had not been visited during the previous summer's work, 
and carried on test operations in 14 sites. In September that party 
moved to the Oahe Eeservoir basin where it started similar oper- 
ations. Most of the field parties had returned to their headquarters 
by the end of September. Early in the spring a party conducted 
excavations in the Dardanelle Eeservoir area on the Arkixnsas Eiver 
in Arkansas. During the period February-June, a survey party 
worked in three reservoir areas along the lower Chattahoochee Eiver 
in Alabama and Georgia, and in April-June another party excavated 
in two sites in the Hartwell Eeservoir area in South Carolina- 
Georgia. At the end of the fiscal year nine parties were conducting 
excavations along the Missouri Eiver in South Dakota. Five were 
working in the Great Bend Eeservoir area and four in the Oahe 
Eeservoir Basin. 

By June 80, 1958, reservoir areas where archeological surveys and 
excavations had been made since the salvage program got under way 
in 1946 totaled 254 in 29 States. The survey parties have located 
and recorded 4,889 archeological sites, and of that number 997 have 
been recommended for excavation or limited testing. In general 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 51 

the term "excavation" does not indicate the complete investigation 
of a site, but usually means that only about 10 percent of it has been 
micovered. There are some cases, however, where the locality is of 
sufficient significance to warrant extensive digging. Preliminary ap- 
praisal reports have been issued for all the reservoir areas surveyed, 
with the exception of the Big Bend in South Dakota and the group 
of three in Chattahoochee Basin. The report for the Big Bend has 
been completed, however, and will be processed early in the coming 
fiscal year. One preliminary report covering the survey of the 
Dardanelle Reservoir area in Arkansas was mimeographed and dis- 
tributed during the year. Since tlie beginning of the Inter-Agency 
Archeological Salvage Program, 184 appraisal reports have been 
issued. The discrepancy between that number and the total of the 
reservoir areas examined is due to the fact that in several cases in- 
formation obtained from a number of reservoir projects located in 
a single basin or subbasin have been combined in a single report. 

By the end of the fiscal year 388 sites in 52 reservoir basins located 
in 19 different States had been either partially or extensively dug. 
Only a single site was excavated in some of the reservoir areas, while 
in others a whole series was investigated. At least one example of 
each type of site recommended by the preliminary surveys had been 
excavated. In some cases it has been necessary to dig a number of 
somewhat similar sites because the complexity of such remains makes 
it essential to have considerable comparative material in order to 
obtain full information about that particular phase of aboriginal cul- 
ture. In brief it may be said that the cultural stages represented 
cover the range from the early hunting peoples of about 10,000 years 
ago to the frontier trading and Army posts of the latter part of 
the 19th century. Reports of the results obtained from some of 
the excavations have been published in Bulletins of the Bureau of 
American Ethnology, in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 
and in various scientific journals. During the year River Basin 
Surveys Paper No. 8, Bulletin 166 of the Bureau of American Eth- 
nology, was distributed. It was written by Dr. Douglas Osborne 
and pertains to excavations in the McNary Reservoir Basin near 
Umatilla, Oreg. Accompanying the archeological report are ap- 
pendices on the skeletal material, trade goods, and composition of 
the copper objects found during the excavations. River Basin Sur- 
veys Papers 9-14, which will constitute Bulletin 169 of the Bureau 
of American Ethnology, Avere in page proof at the end of the year, 
and the volume should be ready for distribution early in the next 
fiscal year. Three of the papers pertain to investigations in the 
Missouri Basin, two to work done in the Jim Woodruff Reservoir 
area, Georgia-Florida, and one to a site in the Alatoona Reservoir 



52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

area in Georgia. Twelve detailed teclmical reports on the results 
of work done during previous years were completed during 1957-58 
and are ready to submit to the editors for publication as soon as 
funds sufficient to cover their cost are available. 

As of June 30, 1968, the distribution of reservoir projects that have 
been surveyed for archeological remains was as follows : Alabama, 3 ; 
Arkansas, 1; California, 20; Colorado, 24; Georgia, 8; Idaho, 11; 
Illinois, 2 ; Iowa, 3 ; Kansas, 10 ; Kentucky, 2 ; Louisiana, 2 ; Minne- 
sota, 1; Mississippi, 1; Montana, 15; Nebraska, 28; New Mexico, 1; 
North Dakota, 13 ; Ohio, 2 ; Oklahoma, 7 ; Oregon, 27 ; Pennsylvania, 
2; South Carolina, 1; South Dakota, 10; Tennessee, 4; Texas, 19; 
Virginia, 2 ; Washington, 11 ; West Virginia, 2 ; Wyoming, 22. Exca- 
vations have been made or were under way in reservoir basins in 
Arkansas, 1; California, 5; Colorado, 1; Iowa, 1; Georgia, 5; Kan- 
sas, 5; Montana, 1; Nebraska, 1; New Mexico, 1; North Dakota, 4; 
Oklahoma, 2 ; Oregon, 4 ; South Carolina, 2 ; South Dakota, 4 ; Texas, 
7; Virginia, 1; Washington, 4; West Virginia, 1; Wyoming, 2. The 
preceding figures include only the work of the River Basin Surveys 
or that which was in direct cooperation between local institutions and 
tlie Surveys. The investigations made by State and local institutions 
working under agreements with the National Park Service have not 
been included because complete information about them is not 
available. 

The River Basin Surveys, as in previous years, received helpful 
cooperation from the National Park Service, the Bureau of Recla- 
mation, and the Corps of Engineers, and various State and local insti- 
tutions. The Corps of Engineers provided transportation and 
guides for work in one of the reservoir areas and provided temporary 
field headquarters for a party in another area. In several instances 
mechanical equipment to assist in heavy excavations was made avail- 
able by the construction agency. Field personnel of all the agencies 
was particularly helpful to the various party leaders from the River 
Basin Surveys and expedited their activities in numerous ways. The 
National Park Service continued to serve as the liaison between the 
various agencies, both in Washington and in the field. The Park 
Service also prepared the estimates and justifications for the funds 
needed to carry on the salvage program. In the several Park Service 
regions the regional directors and members of their staffs cooperated 
wholeheartedly in the program and greatly aided all phases of the 
operations. 

The main office in Washington continued general supervision of 
the program. The field headquarters and laboratory at Lincoln, 
Nebr., was responsible for the activities in the Missouri Basin and 
also provided a base of operations for the party which worked at the 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 53 

Dardanelle Reservation in Arkansas. The materials collected by the 
excavating parties in the Missouri Eiver Basin, as well as the one in 
Arkansas and those from the Toronto Reservoir area on the Verdigris 
River in Kansas, which were obtained the previous year, were proc- 
essed at the Lincoln laboratory. During the first two months of the 
fiscal year, Dr. James H. Howard, who supervised the project at the 
Kansas Reservoir, worked in the Lincoln office studying the speci- 
mens which he had recovered and preparing his report. 

Washington oiflce. — The main headquarters of the River Basin 
Surveys at the Bureau of American Ethnology continued under the 
direction of Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. Carl F. Miller, archeolo- 
gist, was detailed to the regular Bureau staff for the period from 
July 1 to December 29, in order to continue excavations at Russell 
Cave, Alabama, and to work up the material obtained from the cave. 
On December 30 he returned to the River Basin Surveys staff and 
from then until April 22 devoted his time to the completion of his 
report on previous excavations at the James H. Kerr (Buggs Island) 
Reservoir on the Roanoke River in southern Virginia. During the 
winter months he spoke before several local societies, completed an 
article on the Russell Cave work for the National Geographic Maga- 
zine and gave a lecture on the cave before the National Geographic 
Society in Washington. On April 22 he proceeded to South Carolina 
where he conducted excavations in the Hartwell Reservoir area. 
While engaged in those investigations he spoke before several local 
Rotary and Lions Clubs, several groups of Boy Scouts, and a Naval 
Research group at Clemson College. On May 23 he participated in 
a conference held at the University of Georgia at Athens, at which 
time representatives of the National Park Service, the University of 
Georgia, and the River Basin Surveys discussed future work for the 
Hartwell Reservoir area. Mr. Miller returned to Washington on 
June 26 and on June 29 was again transferred to the Bureau of 
American Ethnology to resume the activities at Russell Cave. The 
latter work, which is a cooperative project between the Smithsonian 
Institution and the National Geographic Society, was to continue 
through the early months of the following fiscal year. 

William M. Bass III, temporary physical anthropologist, was on 
duty in Washington at the beginning of the year. He devoted the 
month of July and the first week in August to a study of human 
skeletal material from various sites in the Missouri Basin and pre- 
pared reports on his findings. On August 9 he left Washington for 
Pierre, S. Dak., and spent the ensuing 3 weeks assisting in the removal 
of Indian burials at the Sully site in the Oahe Reservoir area. Mr. 
Bass returned to Washington August 29 and resigned from the Sur- 
veys in order to resimie his studies toward an advanced degree. On 



54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 58 

June 2 Mr. Bass again reported for duty in Washington and spent 
3 weeks classifying human skeletal material from the James H. Kerr 
Keservoir in southern Virginia. He then proceeded to Pierre, S. Dak., 
and took charge of a party conducting excavations in the burial area 
at the Sully site. Mr. Bass was engaged in those activities at the close 
of the year. 

Harold A. Huscher, archeologist on the staff of the Missouri Basin 
Project, was detailed to the Washington office beginning February 
2, 1958, and on February 7 left for Georgia and Alabama, where he 
carried on preliminary surveys in three reservoir areas in the lower 
Chattahoochee Kiver Basin. Mr. Huscher continued those activities 
until June 23 when he went to Athens, Ga., to participate in the 
conference at which Mr. JJililler was also in attendance. Following 
the conference Mr. Huscher returned to Washington, and at the close 
of the fiscal year was preparing a summary rej)ort on the results of 
his explorations along the Chattahoochee. 

Alabama-Georgia. — During the period February 10 to June 21 
preliminary surveys were made in the areas to be flooded by the 
Columbia Dam and Lock, the Walter F. George Dam and Lock, and 
the Oliver Dam on the lower Chattahoochee River. The Columbia 
Dam and Lock and the Walter F. George Dam and Lock are projects 
of the Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, while the Oliver 
Dam is being constructed by the Georgia Power Co. The Columbia 
Dam is to be located a short distance below the bridge across the 
Chattahoochee River at Columbia, Ala. The Walter F. George Dam 
is to be built at Fort Gaines, Ga., and the Oliver Dam is located a 
short distance above Columbus, Ga. These three projects together 
will flood out 120 contiguous miles of the Chattahoochee bottoms. 
Since the area to be affected by the Walter F. George project will be 
the first to be inundated, most of the period was spent in that area, 
although some reconnaissance was made in both of the other basins. 

During the course of the survey in the Walter F. George basin, 
117 archeological sites were located and recorded on the Georgia side 
of the river and 90 sites on the Alabama side. They range from sim- 
ple village locations to areas contaming the remains of several differ- 
ent cultures, and from single to multiple mound groups. In addition 
there are two historical sites of considerable importance. One is that 
of the Spanish Fort of Apalachicola, dating from 1689 to 1691, and 
the other the historic Creek town of Roanoke w-hich was occupied by 
the whites and then attacked and burned by the Indians in 1736. Be- 
cause the exact dates of occupancy of the Fort are known, it should 
provide an important check point in working out the chronology of the 
area. Also, since the Roanoke village was burned it should be quite 
productive archeologically. The aboriginal sites range from Early 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 55 

Woodland to relatively late Creek villages dating from the period 
1675-1836. The latter present the possibility of a specific identi- 
fication of sites from ethnohistorical evidence, as well as an unusual 
opportunity to use the direct-historical approach in establishing a 
regional chronology. 

The manifestations in the' Columbia Dam and Lock and Oliver 
Dam basins are an integral part of the entire picture in the Lower 
Chattahoochee Valley and must be studied in conjunction with those 
in the Walter F. George section. Complete coverage of those two 
projects was not possible in the time devoted to the reconnaissance, 
but it was determined that there are at least 14 sites in the immediate 
area of the Columbia Dam which will be affected by construction 
activities. One is a major mound site probably dating about A.D. 
1200, already half destroyed by the river, which calls for immediate 
investigation. Three others are major village sites attributable to the 
Weeden Island cidtural pattern. In the Oliver Dam district there are 
at least 15 known sites including mounds, early village locations, and 
caves giving evidence of Indian occupation. The series encompasses 
a period of at least 3,000 years. 

The entire history of aboriginal development in that portion of the 
Chattahoochee Valley is contained in the river bottoms and low ter- 
races which will be flooded by the three reservoirs. Very little archeo- 
logical work has been done there and an extensive program of excava- 
tion is indicated. In addition, further surveys should be made in 
districts not covered during the recent investigations. 

Arkansas. — In the Dardanelle Reservoir Basin on the Arkansas 
River in west-central Arkansas, excavations were made in five sites, 
and two new sites were located and recorded during the period from 
March 18 to May 7. All seven of the sites involved were in the lower 
portion of the reservoir area. One rock shelter was almost com- 
pletely excavated and four open sites were extensively tested. Little 
was found at the excavated sites to indicate the type of dwelling or 
structures erected by the people. However, a considerable collection 
of artifact material was recovered which shows that the sites pri- 
marily represent the Archaic Period and that their ceramics were 
related to the Lower Mississippi Valley sequences. Only slight in- 
fluences were noted from the Caddoan area to the west and southwest. 
The two new sites found by the field party represent a mound-village 
complex and a historic Cherokee location. Because of adverse 
weather and imusually heavy rains during the period the party was in 
the Dardanelle area, not so much work was accomplished as had been 
contemplated, and it was recommended that similar excavations be 
made during the following fiscal year in upper portions of the reser- 
voir basin. 

492520—59 5 



56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

The proposed survey of the Greer's Ferry Keservoir area, which 
was postponed the previous year because of high waters, was not 
made during the current year by a River Basin Surveys party as con- 
templated. Instead the University of Arkansas, working imder an 
agreement with the National Park Service, carried out the prelimi- 
nary investigations at Greer's Ferry, The situation there was some- 
what comparable to that in the Dardanelle area in that weather con- 
ditions hampered the work to a considerable degree. It was planned 
that another party from the University would return to the Greer's 
Ferry area shortly after the beginning of the new fiscal year. 

Iowa. — No fieldwork was carried on in Iowa during the fiscal year 
ended June 30, 1958. However, the detailed technical report "Archeo- 
logical Salvage Investigations in the Coralville Reservoir, Iowa" was 
completed during the year and will be available for publication as 
soon as funds for that purpose are available. The report consists of 
100 typed pages, 12 plates, and 15 text figures. 

Kansas, — The only activity on the part of the River Basin Surveys 
during the fiscal year pertaining to Kansas was that of the comple- 
tion of the detailed technical report on the excavation in eight sites 
in the Toronto Reservoir Basin during the spring months of 1957. A 
typed manuscript of 90 pages with 12 plates and 15 text figures is now 
ready to submit to the editors. 

Missouri Basin. — As in previous years, the Missouri Basin Project 
continued to operate from the field headquarters and laboratory at 
1517 "O" Street, Lincoln, Nebr. Dr. Robert L. Stephenson served 
as chief of the Project throughout the year. Activities included work 
on all four phases of the salvage program: (1) Survey, (2) excava- 
tion, (3) analysis, and (4) reporting. The first two phases received 
major attention in the summer months, and the second two during the 
fall and winter. In addition to the four regular phases of the pro- 
gram, a special chronology program was initiated during the year. 

At the beginning of the fiscal year the staff, in addition to the 
chief, consisted of 4 permanent archeologists, 1 archeologist detailed 
to the Project from the Washington office, 5 temporary field assist- 
ants, 1 field assistant detailed to the project from the Washington 
office, 1 temporary physical anthropologist on duty in the Washing- 
ton office, 1 field and laboratory assistant, 1 administrative assistant, 
1 museum aide, 1 clerk-stenographer, 1 file clerk (half time), 1 
photographer, 1 clerk-typist, 2 temporary laboratory assistants, 1 
temporary (part time) draftsman, and 79 temporary field crewmen. 
At the end of the 1957 summer field season, all temporary field crew- 
men were terminated, with the exception of one who was assigned 
laboratory assistant's duties in the Lincoln office. The physical an- 
thropologist subsequently was on duty in the Missouri Basin for 3 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 57 

weeks in August. The archeologist and field assistant detailed from 
the Washington office returned to their regular assignments in Au- 
gust. Two temporary field assistants were terminated in August. 
Two other temporary field assistants were appointed as archeologists 
on the permanent staif . One temporary field assistant was transferred 
to duty outside the Missom^i Basin in January. One illustrator was 
added to the permanent staff in November. All other temporary 
employees were terminated in December and January. Four museum 
aides were added to the permanent staff during the year. One tempo- 
rary archeologist and two temporary field assistants were added at the 
beginning of the 1958 field season. At the end of the fiscal year there 
were 6 archeologists in addition to the chief, 1 administrative assist- 
ant, 1 clerk-stenographer, 1 file clerk (tliree-quarters time), 1 clerk- 
typist, 1 photographer, 1 illustrator, and 4 museum aides on the 
permanent staff. Temporary employees included 1 archeologist, 1 
physical anthropologist, 2 field assistants, 3 cooks, and 90 crewmen. 

During the year there were 19 Smithsonian Institution River Basin 
Surveys field parties at work within the Missouri Basin, while 
another, working outside the Basin, also operated from the Project 
office in Lincoln. Of the 19 Missouri Basin parties, 5 were at work 
in July, August, and September in the Big Bend Reservoir area in 
South Dakota, and 5 additional parties were at work there in June. 
Five parties worked in the Oahe Reservoir area in July, August, and 
September, and four other parties were at work there in June. The 
party outside the Missouri Basin was that in the Dardanelle Reser- 
voir area in Arkansas. 

Other fieldwork in the Missouri Basin during the year included 11 
field parties from State institutions working under agreements with 
the National Park Service and in cooperation with the salvage re- 
search program of the Smithsonian Institution. Parties from the 
Universities of South Dakota, Idaho, Wyoming, Kansas, and Mis- 
souri and from the North Dakota State Historical Society were in the 
field during July to October. Parties from the Universities of South 
Dakota, Idaho, Wyoming, and Missouri were conducting excavations 
in June, as was a joint party from the North Dakota State Historical 
Society and the University of North Dakota. 

At the beginning of the year in the Big Bend Reservoir area, 
G. Hubert Smith and a party of 10 were engaged in excavations on 
the right bank of the Missouri River near the mouth of Medicine 
Creek, in Lyman County, S. Dak., at site 39LM241. This site was 
believed to be that of Fort Defiance (or Bonis), a small, short-lived 
trading post of the 1840's. It was one of a number of such estab- 
lishments organized from time to time in competition with the Ameri- 
can Fur Co. (P. Chouteau, Jr., & Co., after 1834) . It was hoped that 



58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

work there would provide information on such lesser establishments 
of the fur and Indian trade, of which little was ever recorded at the 
time they were in use. Excavations at 39LM241 proved that it was 
not the site of Fort Defiance (or Bouis) but that it was of a later 
period of permanent settlement, dating after 1880. Further search 
for the Fort Defiance site proved fruitless. While somewhat scanty, 
the data and specimens from 39LM241 provide materials that should 
be very useful for comparative studies relating to this later period of 
white occupation. The Smith party completed 6 weeks of fieldwork 
and returned to the Lincoln office early in August. 

The second River Basin Surveys field party in the Big Bend Reser- 
voir area at the beginning of the year was directed by Dr. Warren W. 
Caldwell and consisted of a crew of nine. The group was at work on 
the right bank of the Missouri River in Lyman County, S. Dak., 
some 7 miles above the Lower Brule Agency, excavating in the Black 
Partizan site (39LM218) . The latter consists of the remains of a pre- 
historic earth-lodge village of at least 2 component occupations and 
perhaps 3. The party completely excavated 1 circular earth-lodge 
ruin and a large portion of a second, cross-sectioned a defensive forti- 
fication ditch, excavated 1 complete bastion of the stockade, and tested 
a number of midden areas and cache pits. The circular houses were 
situated well outside the fortification ditch and were of the late occu- 
pation of about the end of the l7th century. The ditch and bastion 
represent two earlier occupation periods, with the ditch being dug 
during the earlier one, later filled in and, still later, redug. Tests 
indicated a rectangular house inside the fortification ditch and, to- 
gether with midden areas and cache pits in that area, provided both 
simple-stamped and cord-roughened pottery that predates the mate- 
rial recovered from the circular houses outside the stockade. Among 
the finds made in the cache pits, one of particular interest was the 
burial of two very large, adult dogs, together with a pup. After 12 
weeks of excavation, the party disbanded and returned to the Lincoln 
office on September 7. The Caldwell and Smith parties shared a 
joint field camp near the mouth of Medicine Creek. 

The third River Basin Surveys field party in the Big Bend Reser- 
voir area at the beginning of the year was under the direction of 
Robert W. Neuman and had a crew of 10. That party conducted 
excavations in four sites in the vicinity of Old Fort Thompson, the 
Indian Agency, on the left bank of the Missouri River in Buffalo 
County, S. Dak. Two of them were prehistoric village sites on the low 
terrace bottoms, and two were burial momids situated on the higher 
terrace of the Missouri River. The Pretty Bull site (39BF12) was 
found to have had three separate occupations. The earliest and 
deepest remains were recovered from two test excavations that im- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 59 

covered two basin-shaped pits with burned, bright orange-colored 
walls. One of these pits was associated with a few scattered post 
molds. The recovered artifacts suggest a Middle Woodland occupa- 
tion and include cord-marked pottery, crude triangular projectile 
points, stone end scrapers, elk or deer bone and antler tools, small 
shell disk beads, and concentrations of hematite. The middle occupa- 
tion was apparent in a large strata trench, where six cache pits with 
slightly convex bottoms and imdercut walls were excavated. Fill 
within the pits included an abundance of Mom-oe, Anderson, and 
Foreman pottery that relates to an early, rectangular-house occupa- 
tion. Bone and stone implements were also numerous, but no archi- 
tectural features were found. The late occupation was represented 
in the excavations by the remains of a large, circular earth lodge. 
A central fire hearth, basin- and bell-shaped cache pits, and second- 
ary fire hearths were excavated within the house. The ceramic col- 
lections from the house fill consist of at least nine pottery types, 
suggesting a long and varied occupation. The post-mold pattern of 
the house was poorly defined in some places, but the general pattern 
was unmistakable. 

The second village location excavated by the Neuman party was 
the Akichita site (39BF221). There, three midden areas were 
sampled extensively, and an abundance of artifacts and refuse was 
recovered, but no houses were located. One bell-shaped cache pit was 
dug. Artifacts collected suggest close affiliation with the older 
levels at the Dodd site (39ST30) near Pierre, S. Dak. It was felt at 
the end of the season that additional work was needed there, particu- 
larly an effort to determine the architectural pattern of the houses. 
A third site excavated was the Olson Mound (39BF223). It was a 
low, circular earth mound 1.5 feet high and 40 feet in diameter. No 
pottery and very few bone or stone artifacts were recovered from the 
fill. In the center, and on the base of the mound, there was a con- 
centration of badly decomposed human bones, suggesting the second- 
ary burial of an undetermined number of individuals. The cultural 
affiliation of the complex has not yet been determined. The final site 
excavations by the Neuman party were at the Truman Mound site 
(39BF224). The latter consisted of a group of four low, circular 
mounds in a line along the terrace edge, each measuring about 2 feet 
in height and 50 feet in diameter. Three of the mounds contained 
primary and/or secondary burials. One mound contained a deep, 
oval pit extending 6 feet below its top surface. A flexed burial, shell 
pendants, pottery sherds, and bone and shell tools were recovered 
from both the pit and the mound fill. Another of the mounds had a 
rectangular design of small rocks on its top surface and contained 
secondary burials. One skull displayed a large cut hole in the left 



60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

temporal region. This mound lacked pottery, but in all other re- 
spects resembled the other three excavated mounds. The pottery 
from this mound group, including one restored vessel, was simple 
stamped, but had a typical Middle Woodland conoidal vessel shape 
and no decoration. This party disbanded and returned to the Lin- 
coln headquarters on October 3, after 14 weeks of fieldwork. 

The fourth River Basin Surveys field party in the Big Bend Reser- 
voir area was directed by William N. Irving and consisted of a crew 
of eight. At the beginning of the year the party was at work on 
the left bank of the Missouri River in the vicinity of Old Fort 
Thompson in Buffalo County, S. Dak. Efforts were concentrated on 
the Medicine Crow site (39BF2), and excavations were made in three 
separate areas. In area A the men micovered a circular earth lodge 
and several cache pits of the late occupation of about the early 18th 
century. In area C another circular earth lodge and several cache 
pits were excavated, and the recovered material suggests an occupa- 
tion date a few decades earlier than that of area A. One cache-pit 
burial was recovered there. The main work of the season was in 
area B, where a large series of extensive test excavations revealed 
deeply buried evidence of at least three separate occupations, antedat- 
ing the appearance of ceramics in the area. Some 25 projectile 
points and a large collection of camp refuse were obtained. The 
types of the artifacts and the stratigraphic situation, terminating in 
a coarse sand at the bottom, suggest an early Archaic occupation of 
perhaps as much as 5,000 or more years ago. One skull, recovered 
from the site, compares physically with the "Minnesota Man" re- 
mains, which generally are believed to be late Pleistocene in age. 
This is the best early-period site thus far noted in the immediate 
valley of the Missouri River. It has a strong potential for produc- 
ing evidence for a good sequence of occupations from very early 
preceramic times to late ceramic times. The geology of the terrace 
formations there, and pollen analyses, promise good interpretative 
possibilities. The party ended the season's work on October 3, after 
M weeks of excavation. The Neuman and Irving parties shared a 
joint camp at Old Fort Thompson. 

The fifth River Basin Surveys field party in the Big Bend Reser- 
voir area at the begimiing of the fiscal year was directed by Harold A. 
Huscher. He was assisted by a crew of three. This was a mobile 
party and constituted an extension of the previous summer's survey 
work in that area. During the season's work the group conducted 
extensive test excavations in 14 sites on both sides of the river in 
Buffalo, Hyde, Hughes, Lyman, and Stanley Counties ; made surface 
collections from 14 other sites in Buffalo and Hyde Counties; and 
located 16 previously unrecorded sites. Of the sites tested, 12 were 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 61 

recommended for excavation and 2 were written off as meriting no 
further attention. The 12 comprised either single- or multi-occupa- 
tion sites, ranging in time from Middle Woodland through the early 
ceramic periods of rectangular houses to and including the late 
ceramic periods of circular earth lodges. One suggests a preceramic 
horizon somewhat similar to that at the Medicine Crow site (39BF2). 
Of the sites visited and not tested, nine were recommended for further 
investigation, and five were written off. One of the latter five, 
39HU215, was first thought to be an early 19th-century trading post, 
but tests indicated that it was a late 19th-century homestead allot- 
ment, probably of Dakota occupancy. On September 3 this party 
terminated its work in the Big Bend area after 8 weeks in the field, 
and moved to the Oahe Reservoir area to continue similar survey and 
testing activities. 

In the Oahe Reservoir area there were four River Basin Survey 
parties in the field at the beginning of the fiscal year, and a fifth 
party began work there early in September. Dr. Robert L. Stephen- 
son with a crew of 23 was excavating, at the beginning of the year, in 
the vicinity of Fort Sully on the left bank of the Missouri River in 
Sully County, S. Dak. That party conducted intensive excavations 
in the Sully site (39SL4), the remains of the largest of the pre- 
historic earth-lodge villages known in the Missouri Basin. It also 
completely excavated a small rock-cairn burial site (39SL38) nearby. 
The latter consisted of a deep burial beneath a rock pile and produced 
a skeleton in poor condition, with no associated artifacts. The Sully 
site excavations included 13 circular earth lodges of the nearly 400 
presumed to be present in the site, and li/^ of the 4 ceremonial lodges. 
The house floors ranged in depth, below the surface, from 2 to 4 
feet ; entrances were to the southwest ; and two distinct architectural 
patterns were observed. One was composed of closely set double rows 
of small outer wall posts, the other was composed of widely spaced 
single rows of large outer posts with leaner posts outside them. Ap- 
parently there were two closely related, yet somewhat different, oc- 
cupational patterns, and the artifact inventory tends to support this 
distinction. The ceremonial lodges were 12-sided structures of 75- to 
80-foot diameters and had long entrance passages. The other houses 
all had very short entrances. The ceramic inventory suggests that 
there may have been an earlier occupation featuring rectangular 
houses, but no such houses were found in the areas excavated. Other 
features excavated include burial areas where 63 burials were re- 
covered, midden heaps, a large rectangular "plaza" area of unknown 
usage, a large I-shaped depression of unknown usage, a strata trench 
across the center of the site, and 91 cache pits. The major occupation 
of the site appears to have been by the immediate ancestors of the 



62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Arikara during the period 1600-1750. The other occupation or occu- 
pations were somewhat earlier. Among the unusual materials re- 
covered were several catlinite pipes, an ornament of turquoise, a piece 
of obsidian, and several ornaments made from marine shells. The 
burials will provide a good series for study, and the field party was 
particularly fortunate to have William M. Bass III, physical anthro- 
pologist of the Kiver Basin Surveys staff, present to assist in the 
excavation of the burial areas. This party returned to the Lincoln 
headquarters on September 14, after 13 weeks in the field. 

The second River Basin Surveys party in the Oahe Reservoir area, 
comprising a crew of seven, was directed by Charles H. McNutt. At 
the beginning of the year they were camped with Dr. Stephenson's 
party near Fort Sully and were excavating in the nearby C. B. Smith 
site (39SL29) on the left bank of the Missouri River in Sully County, 
S. Dak. They uncovered major sections of 2 large circular earth lodges, 
10 cache pits, and 17 other features, and tested 2 extensive midden 
areas. This proved to be a moderately large earth-lodge village site 
of about the early I7th century. After the completion of work there, 
the party moved to the nearby Sully School site (39SL7) and exca- 
vated 2 houses, 12 cache pits, and 9 other features, tested one midden 
area, and trenched a portion of the fortification ditch and palisade. 
One of the houses had been a long, rectangular structure with an entry 
ramp to the south, while the other was a large circular structure. The 
two occupations thus indicated suggest that one belonged to a period 
approximating that of the C. B. Smith site, while the other was con- 
siderably earlier — perhaps between A.D. 1200 and 1400. The fortifi- 
cation ditch and palisade apparently surrounded the later period 
occupation. In addition to the excavations at those two sites, the 
McNutt party investigated two lesser sites in the vicinity. One, 
39SL9, was a small occupation area with a few surface remains. Test- 
ing there gave no promise of significant returns for intensive digging 
and no further work was attempted. The other, 39SL10, was a burial 
site along the edge of the present river bank. Stream cutting had 
destroyed all but the last vestiges of it, and there was little to salvage. 
The party disbanded and returned to the Lincoln headquarters on 
September 14, after 13 weeks of work. 

The third River Basin Surveys party in the Oahe Reservoir area 
was directed by Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, who was detailed to the River 
Basin Surveys for the summer by the department of anthropology of 
the U.S. National Museum. Dr. Wedel and a crew of nine worked 
near the Old Fort Bennett area on the right bank of the Missouri River 
in Stanley County, S. Dak. The party conducted intensive excavations 
in site 39ST203, where it uncovered two large circular earth lodges 
dating around the I7th century and two large long-rectangular houses 
of a much earlier period, perhaps the 14th or 16th centuries. The 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 63 

floors of the circular houses v^ere I14 to 2i/^ feet below the surface, 
while those of the rectangular structures were 3% to 4 feet. Other 
features excavated in this site include a burial pit with the remains of 
five individuals, and evidence of burning over the top of the corpses. 
The party also excavated a circular house and a large portion of the 
stockade line at the nearby site, 39ST50. This small fortified village 
of the late 18th or early 19th century may possibly be the Truteau vil- 
lage of the mid-1790's. Glass bottles and considerable metal were 
found in the site. Dr. Wedel's party disbanded on August 19, after 8 
weeks of excavation. 

The fourth River Basin Surveys party in the Oahe Reservoir area 
was directed by Donald D. Hartle. It consisted of a crew of seven and 
shared a joint field camp with the Wedel party. This party dug test 
excavations in three sites during the season. At 39ST11, two houses, 
nine cache pits, and several other features were excavated. The houses 
were small rectangular structures with single end posts, evenly spaced 
side-wall posts, and entrance ramps. Of especial interest was the 
small size and short-rectangular shape of these houses, distinguishing 
them from the long-rectangular structures of more usual occurrence. 
Architecture and artifact collections suggest affiliation with the 
early sedentary Anderson Focus of the 14th or 15th centuries. An- 
other interesting feature was the remains of three people who had died 
within a corner of one of the houses. With them were a whole pottery 
vessel and some fragments of basketry. In 39ST23, a dwelling house, 
a ceremonial lodge, several cache pits, a palisade and fortification 
ditch, and several other features were excavated. The pottery and 
circular houses suggest an Arikara occupation of perhaps the iTth or 
18th century. The ceremonial house contained an altar, and the wall 
posts were set in a trench around the base of the wall. At 39ST45, 
three houses, several cache pits, two palisade bastions, and several 
other features were excavated. This site was occupied at two differ- 
ent times at least, since one house was rectangTilar and two were circu- 
lar. The rectangular house was short and small and represents an 
occupation very closely related to that of site 39ST11. The circular 
house occupation was not entirely clear, but appears to have been 
representative of a culture pattern somewhat earlier than that of site 
39ST23. The two palisade bastions were oval in pattern and ex- 
tended laterally from a fortification palisade. This field party ended 
its work on August 24, after 9 weeks in the field. 

The River Basin Surveys' mobile survey and testing crew of three, 
under the direction of Harold A. Huscher, moved from the Big 
Bend Reservoir area on September 3 and began a site survey and 
testing operation in the Oahe Reservoir area between the mouth of 
the Cheyenne River and Whitlocks Crossing on the right bank of the 
IVIissouri River. Heavy vegetation growth and much rain during 



64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

the season prevented the party from doing extensive site mapping or 
reconnaissance in the area, but several of the larger sites were visited 
and surface collections were made. A site map and exploratory tests 
were made at 39AK8, which appears to be related to the Huff site 
in North Dakota. Six other large sites were located and recorded 
for the first time in this area. The party disbanded on September 
16, after 2 weeks in the Oahe Reservoir area. 

Tlie 1958 field season m the Missouri Basin began in the Big Bend 
Reservoir area on May 11 with a small party exploring in the vicinity 
of the Medicine Crow site (39BF2). William N. Irving with a crew 
of three and Mrs. Kathryn H. Clisby, pollen specialist from Oberlin 
College, Ohio, collected samples of fossil pollen from various local- 
ities in the area. Upon Mrs. Clisby's departure, Irving and his crew 
prepared a detailed map of the Medicine Crow site. On June 10 
he increased his party to eight crewmen and added an assistant 
trained in geology to w^ork with him on stratigraphic terrace sequences 
relating to the geology of the site and its mimediate vicinity. They 
located one new site containing a large mammalian fossil in a terrace 
fill deposit and another site with columnar fire hearths exposed in 
a cut bank of the river. Intensive excavations continued in area B 
at the Medicine Crow site, and by the end of the year were progress- 
ing through the upper 3 feet of the preceramic zones. 

On May 19, the second River Basin Surveys field party began op- 
erations in the Big Bend Reservoir area. This was a party of 10 
mider the direction of Robert W. Neuman excavating at two sites 
near Old Fort Thompson on the left bank of the Missouri River. 
Part of this crew continued work begun last season in the Akichita 
site (39BF221) in an attempt to learn details of architectural fea- 
tures. Extensive trenching had failed to find any traces of a house 
structure by the end of the year, although much midden refuse added 
significantly to the specimen inventory. The second section of the 
crew continued work begun last season at the Truman Mound site 
(39BF224). In that mound group, Mounds 5 and 6 were excavated 
during June, thus completing work at the site. In both mounds sec- 
ondary burials accompanied by shell, disk, and bone beads were found. 
Beneath Mound 6, several projectile points, bone beads, and other 
artifacts were found. This party plamied to concentrate the re- 
mainder of the field season on the several other mound sites in the 
immediate vicinity. 

The third River Basin Surveys party in the Big Bend Reservoir 
area in June consisted of a crew of seven led by James J. F. Deetz. 
It began work on June 10 and spent the remainder of the month in 
excavations in areas A and C of the Medicine Crow sit© (39BF2). 
Midden areas were trenched, and one circular earth lodge was exca- 
vated. This lodge was actually two closely superimposed structures. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 65 

Work was continuing at this site at the end of the year. The field 
parties of Irving, Neuman, and Deetz shared a joint field camp near 
the Medicine Crow site. 

The fourth River Basin Surveys field party in the Big Bend Reser- 
voir area in June was composed of a crew of 13 directed by Dr. War- 
ren W. Caldwell. It began work on June 10 at the Black Partizan 
site in an effort to complete excavations started last season. By the 
end of the year a circular (or more exactly an octagonal) earth lodge 
had been completely excavated and a midden area trenched. 

The fifth River Basin Surveys party in the Big Bend Reservoir 
area consisted of a crew of seven led by Bernard Golden. It began 
work on June 10 at the Hickey Brothers site (39LM4) and spent the 
remainder of the year excavating midden deposits and one circular 
depression that appeared to be an earth-lodge ruin. Artifact inven- 
tory was small as of the end of the year. The Caldwell and Golden 
parties shared a joint camp at the Black Partizan site. 

In the Oahe Reservoir area, four River Basin Surveys parties were 
in the field during the month of June and a fifth party was scheduled 
to begin work early in the next fiscal year. The first party in the 
area had a crew of 10 under the direction of Charles H. McNutt. 
This group began on June 16, and spent the rest of the month con- 
tinuing excavations begun last season at the Sully School site 
(39SL7). There, a long expanse of the fortification stockade was 
uncovered, and work was well under way toward excavation of cir- 
cular earth-lodge structures. 

The second River Basin Surveys party in the Oahe Reservoir area 
in June consisted of a crew of 23 under the direction of Dr. Robert 
L. Stephenson, with Lee G. Madison as assistant. They began work 
on June 16 on the Sully site (39SL4) and by the end of the year had 
exposed the floors and other features of three circular earth-lodge 
structures. Artifact inventories were abundant in all 3, and an area 
surrounding 3 sides of each of 2 of the houses was being exposed in 
order to learn the nature of materials outside the houses. 

The third River Basin Surveys party at work in the Oahe Reservoir 
area by the end of the year vras that of Richard P. Wheeler. It con- 
sisted of a crew of eight and was working on the Fort Bennett site 
(39ST12), on the right bank of the Missouri River near Old Fort 
Bennett in Stanley County, S. Dak. That party began work on June 
19, and by the end of the year had started the clearing of three circular 
earth-lodge structures. 

On the last day of the year, a fourth River Basin Surveys party 
started work in the Oahe Reservoir area. It was comprised of a crew 
of six, under the direction of William M, Bass III, and was to excavate 
the extensive burial area at the Sully site (39SL4:) , 



66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

The McNutt, Stephenson, and Bass parties shared a joint field 
camp in the vicinity of the Sully site. Such 2- and 3-party field 
camps were proving to be efficient and economical, as many of the 
activities and expenses of several parties could be combined. The 
necessary field equipment, vehicles, number of cooks, and other ex- 
penses were proportionately reduced. The consultative advantage of 
having two or three archeologists in a single camp was proving to be 
of great help in discussions pertaining to excavation methods and 
general archeological interpretations. 

Cooperating institutions in the Oahe Reservoir area at the beginning 
of the fiscal year included a party from the University of South Dakota 
directed by Dr. Wesley R. Hurt, Jr. ; a party from the University of 
Idaho under the direction of Dr. Alfred Bowers; and a party from 
the State Historical Society of North Dakota, directed by Daniel J. 
Scheans. At the end of the fiscal year cooperating institutions in the 
Oahe Reservoir included a party from the University of South Dakota 
directed by Eugene Fugle ; a party from the University of Idaho di- 
rected by Dr. Alfred Bowers; a party from the State Historical 
Society of North Dakota and the University of North Dakota com- 
bined, directed by Dr. James H. Howard. In other reservoirs in the 
Missouri Basin cooperating institutions had parties in the field at the 
beginning of the year as follows : The University of Wyoming, with 
a party directed by Dr. William Mulloy in the Glendo Reservoir of 
southeastern Wyoming; the University of Kansas, with a party di- 
rected by Dr. Carlyle S. Smith in the Tuttle Creek Reservoir of north- 
eastern Kansas ; and the University of IMissouri with a party directed 
by Carl Chapman in the Pomme de Terre Reservoir of west-central 
Missouri. At the end of the fiscal year cooperating institutions were : 
The University of Wyoming with a party directed by Dr. William 
Mulloy in the Glendo Reservoir area and the University of Missouri 
with a party directed by Carl Chapman in the Pomme de Terre Reser- 
voir area. All these parties were operating through agreements with 
the National Park Service and were cooperating in the Smithsonian 
Institution research program. 

During the time that the archeologists were not in the field, they 
were engaged in analyses of their materials and in laboratory and 
library research. They also prepared manuscripts of technical, scien- 
tific reports and wrote articles and papers of a more popular nature. 

During January the first steps were taken by the staff archeologists 
of the Missouri Basin Project toward a long-range Missouri Basin 
Chronology Program. This program is a new departure in the field 
of salvage archeology and is directed toward a more precise under- 
standing of the time sequences of the prehistoric cultures represented 
in the sites being excavated in the Missouri Basin. One primary ob- 
jective of the program is to be able to plan future salvage excavations 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



67 



with increased efficiency. The program includes intensive research in 
dendrochronology, radiocarbon- 14 dating, pollen analysis, geologic- 
climatic dating, typological analyses of artifact materials, historical 
documentation, and the several subsidiary techniques applicable to 
chronology. Ultimately the program should provide a specific time 
scale into which each of the culture complexes represented in the 
excavated sites can be fitted with pinpoint accuracy. In the second 
half of the fiscal year the Missouri Basin Chronology Program made 
several significant accomplishments. A large wall chart and map 
were prepared, showing temporal position and geographic location of 
all of the archeologically pertinent carbon-14 dates so far available. 
A series of 11 radiocarbon- 14 specimens were submitted to the Univer- 
sity of Michigan for dating. The available dendrochronological ma- 
terials on hand in the Missouri Basin were analyzed, and a determina- 
tion was made of what further material is needed. Plans were also 
made for procuring additional dendrochronological specimens upon 
which a series of local master plots can be built. Pollen samples from 
ancient bog areas were collected and submitted to Oberlin College for 
analyses, and plans were made for further collecting of fossil pollens. 
A man with geological training was temporarily added to the staff 
to work out a terrace-system sequence along a portion of the Missouri 
River, and a series of specimens was submitted to the University of 
Michigan proportional counter laboratory for analyses. Representa- 
tives from several State institutions are also cooperating in the 
program. 

The laboratory and office staff devoted its time to processing specimen 
materials for study, photographing specimens, preparing specimen 
records, and typing and filing of records and manuscript materials. 
The accomplishments of the laboratory and office staff are listed in 
the following tables. 



Table 1. — Specimens processed July 1, 1957-June SO, 1968 



Reservoir 


Number 
of sites 


Catalog 
numbers 
assigned 


Number of 
specimens 
processed 


Big Bend . .. 


34 

13 

29 

5 


8,290 

5,417 

901 

23 


52, 718 


Oahe... _ - 


38, 864 


Toronto _ _ _ _. 


1,304 


Sites not in reservoirs 


212 






Collections not assigned site numbers 


81 
2 


14,631 
9 


93, 098 
9 


Total 


83 


14, 640 


93, 107 







68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Table 2. — Record materials processed July 1, 1957-June SO, 1958 

Reflex copies of records 9, 240 

Photographic negatives made 2, 946 

Photographic prints made 11, 521 

Photographic prints mounted and filed . 5,182 

Transparencies mounted in glass 1. 122 

Color pictures taken in the laboratory 368 

Plate layouts made for manuscripts 92 

Cartogi'aphic tracings and revisions . 220 

Plates lettered 37 

Artifacts sketched 58 

Profiles drawn 16 

As of June 30, 1958, the j^ilissoiiri Basin Project had cataloged 
917,370 specimens from 1,762 numbered sites and 52 collections not 
assigned site numbers. During the current fiscal year, 8 pottery ves- 
sels and 37 pottery vessel sections were restored, and 104 nonpottery 
artifacts were repaired. Archeological specimens from 236 sites in 5 
reservoirs were transferred to the United States National Museum, as 
were selected specimens of dog, bird, and fish bones, and of shell. 
Pottery specimens and stone projectile points were transferred to 
Region Two of the National Park Service for use as display material 
at Wind Cave National Monument in South Dakota. The Missouri 
Basin Project received, by transfer from the Nebraska State His- 
torical Society, through the courtesy of Marvin F. Kivett, sample 
pottery specimens from four prototypical Nebraska sites. Cultural 
units and sites of these type specimens are : Dismal River, the Lovett 
site (25CH1) ; Lower Loup, the Burkett site (25NC1) ; Oneota, the 
Leary site (25RH1) ; and Valley Woodland, the Schultz site (25VY1) . 
These specimens are now a part of the Missouri Basin Project com- 
parative collection. The Missouri Basin Project also received by 
transfer from the University of Kansas Museum of Natural History, 
through the courtesy of Dr. Carlyle S. Smith, archeological collec- 
tions from two sites in the Fort Randall Reservoir area. This was a 
permanent transfer of excavated materials which increased materially 
the research value of Missouri Basin Project collections. 

During the Thanksgiving weekend, members of the staff partici- 
pated in the 15th Plains Conference for Archeology, held in Lincoln. 
On April 19, members of the staff presented papers at the annual 
meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences, also held in Lincoln. 
On April 30 and May 1 and 2, members of the staff attended and par- 
ticipated in the annual meeting of the Society for American Arche- 
ology held in Norman, Okla. 

Dr. Robert L. Stephenson, chief, when not in charge of field parties, 
devoted most of his time to managing the office and laboratory in Lin- 
coln and preparing plans for the 1958 summer field season. He spent 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 69 

some time working on a smnmary report of the Missouri Basin Sal- 
vage Program for the calendar years 1952-56 and wrote several short 
papers for presentation before scientific groups. He also worked on a 
manuscript on the "Archeological Investigations in the Whitney Res- 
ervoir, Texas," and prepared text, pictures, and captions for a photo- 
graphic booklet, "The Inter- Agency Archeological Salvage Program, 
After Twelve Years." During the second half of the year, he served 
as chairman of the Missouri Basin Chronology Program. In August 
he addressed the Pierre, S. Dak., Rotary Club on "Archeological Sal- 
vage in South Dakota." In October he addressed the Fidelia Lyceum 
in Lincoln, Nebr., on "Prehistoric America in Missouri Basin." In 
January he attended and participated in the annual meeting of the 
Committee for the Recovery of Archeological Remains, held in 
Washington, D.C. On April 19 he attended the annual meeting of 
the Nebraska Academy of Sciences, held in Lincoln, and presented a 
paper on "The Missouri Basin Chronology Program." On April 30 
and May 1 and 2, at Norman, Okla., he attended the annual meeting 
of the Society for American Archeology and participated as a dis- 
cussant of a paper presented by Robert Bell, entitled "Caddoan 
Relationships to the Plains." 

Dr. Warren W. Caldwell, archeologist, during the fall and winter 
months devoted most of his time to analyses of specimen materials 
recovered from sites he had excavated over the past year. Pie com- 
pleted all plates, figures, and manuscript text for the final report 
"Archeological Investigations in the Coralville Reservoir, Iowa." He 
also completed all plates, figures, and manuscript text for the final 
report, "Archeological Salvage Investigations in the Hell's Canyon 
Area, Snake River, Oregon and Idaho." He prepared a brief tech- 
nical manuscript, "Firearms and Connotive Materials from Fort 
Pierre II (39ST21T), Oahe Reservoir, South Dakota," and a brief 
popular article, "The Smithsonian Institution in Arkansas." The 
latter was published in the June issue of The Ozark Mountaineer. Dr. 
Caldwell also submitted a short note for publication in the Davidson 
Journal of Anthropology entitled "Pacific Coast Clay Figurines : A 
Contraview." He submitted a book review of "Northwest Arche- 
^^^Sy^^^ Research Studies of the State College of Washington^ vol. 24, 
No. 1, that was published in American Antiquity, vol. 23, No. 2, 1957. 
During the second half of the year he served as dendrochronology 
chairman of the Missouri Basin Chronology Program. 

Donald D. Hartle, temporary archeologist, on the staff at the begin- 
ning of the year, left the project on August 26 to resume his graduate 
studies. Mr. Hartle was formerly a regular member of the staff at 
Lincoln and is still working on reports of work done at that time. He 
also is preparing a report on the results of his investigations during 
the 1957 field season in the Oahe Reservoir area. 



70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Harold A. Huscher, temporary archeologist, on the staff at the 
beginning of the year, was transferred to the Washington office on Jan- 
uary 27 to carry on the explorations in Alabama-Georgia previously 
discussed. Between his return from the field on September 16 and 
his departure for the Southeast, Mr. Huscher wrote a rough draft of 
a manuscript covering his work in the Missouri Basin in the summers 
of 1956 and 1957 — "Appraisal of the Archeological Resources of the 
Big Bend Reservoir, South Dakota." He also prepared the prelimi- 
nary draft of a brief technical manuscript on earth-lodge village forti- 
fications in the Missouri Basin, and presented it as an oral report at 
the 15th Plains Conference for Archeology in Lincoln on November 
28. He participated in the initial stages of the Missouri Basin 
Chronology Program. 

William M. Bass III, temporary physical anthropologist, left the 
staff on August 28. He rejoined the staff in the same capacity on June 
2 and remained in the Washington office until June 20, when he pro- 
ceeded to the Lincoln office where he spent five days working on a com- 
parative human skeleton. He left for the field in the Oahe Reservoir 
area on June 28. 

William N. Irving, temporary archeologist, was appointed to the 
permanent staff on May 18. When not in the field directing excava- 
tions, he was in the Lincoln office analyzing materials he excavated 
during the preceding summer and investigating the geological possi- 
bilities of the Medicine Crow site (39BF2). He presented a prelimi- 
nary report on the archeology of the Medicine Crow site at the 15th 
Plains Conference for Archeology on November 28, and a report on 
the chronology of the Medicine Crow site at the annual meeting of the 
Nebraska Academy of Sciences on April 19. On May 1 he went to 
Norman, Okla., and presented a paper on the chronological relation- 
ships of the early part of the Medicine Crow site at the annual meet- 
ing of the Society for American Archeology. During the second half 
of the year he served as geology chairman of the Missouri Basin 
Chronology Program. 

James J. F. Deetz, temporary archeologist, joined the staff on June 
2, and on June 10 left Lincoln for South Dakota to excavate a series 
of sites in the Big Bend Reservoir area. 

Alan H. Coogan, temporary field assistant, joined the staff on June 
2, and on June 10 left Lincoln for the field to serve as assistant to Wil- 
liam N. Irving in the geological-archeological work in the vicinity of 
Old Fort Thompson in the Big Bend Reservoir area. 

Bernard Golden, temporary archeologist, joined the staff on May 19 
and on June 10 left Lincoln to begin excavations in an earth-lodge vil- 
lage site in the Big Bend Reservoir area. 

Charles H. McNutt, archeologist, when he was not in the field, de- 
voted most of his time to analyses and the preparation of reports. He 



Secretary's Report. 1958 



PLATE 2 







1. Excavating a dwelling site of the period of permanent White settlement i; 
Reservoir area, South Dakota. River Basin Surveys. 



Dend 





.>^: 



2. Cutting trench through large burial mound at the Olson site, Big Bend Reservoir area, 
South Dakota. River Basin Surveys. 



Secretary's Report, 1958 




1. Floorof large circular earth lodge dating about the 17th century. Holes around periphery- 
indicate location of wall poles; four larger holes in floor area show position of main supports. 
Entrance passage at rear with the Missouri River in background. Oahe Reservoir area, 
South Dakota. River Basin Surveys. 




2. Excavating house ifoor and cache pits at the Sully site, Oahe Reservoir area, South 
Dakota. River Basin Surveys. 



Secretary's Report. 1958 



Plate 4 




Four stages in the carving of a Seneca mask. Allegany Reservation, New York. 

September 1957. 



Secretary's Report. 1958 



PLATE 5 




.^ 


u, 




« 


s 


u 


c« 


-C 






oT 


3 


3 


o 




w 


m 




o 


^ 




ni 


>. 


3 


as 


60 


H 


C 




cS 


"v 


^^ 


3 


CS 


s 


Xi 


ns 


& 


!/3 


ns 




SECRETARY'S REPORT 71 

served as carbon- 14 chairman, during the second half of the year, in 
the Missouri Basin Clironology Program. He completed the final 
draft of a major technical manuscript covering part of his previous 
summer's work, entitled "Archeological Investigations in the C. B. 
Smith Site (39SL29) , Oahe Keservoir, South Dakota." He also com- 
pleted the final draft of an unfinished manuscript begun by Harold A. 
Huscher, entitled "Appraisal of the Archeological Resources in the 
Big Bend Reservoir Area, South Dakota." On November 28, he pre- 
sented a paper, "Excavations at Two Sites in the Oahe Reservoir, Sully 
County, South Dakota," at the 15th Plains Conference for Archeology 
in Lincoln. On April 18 he presented a paper entitled "La Roche 
Ware and Relative Chronology" at the annual meeting of the Nebras- 
ka Academy of Sciences in Lincoln. From April 30 to May 3 he at- 
tended the annual meeting of the Society for American Archeology in 
Norman, Okla. He was senior author, with Richard P. Wlieeler, of 
a brief article entitled "Bibliography of Primary Sources for Radio- 
carbon Dates," which was submitted in June for publication in the 
Notes and News section of American Antiquity. 

Robert W. Neuman, temporary archeologist, was appointed to the 
permanent staff on July 29. During the time he was not directing 
field activities he was busy completing the analyses of the data and 
materials he had collected and preparing reports on his previous 
seasons' work. He completed the final draft of a major technical 
manuscript entitled "Archeological Investigations in the Lovewell 
Reservoir Area, Kansas." On November 28, he presented a paper, 
"Excavations in Four Sites in the Big Bend Reservoir Area, South 
Dakota." On April 19 he attended the annual meeting of the 
Nebraska Academy of Sciences in Lincoln, and from April 30 to 
May 3 attended the annual meeting of the Society for American 
Archeology in Norman, Okla. 

G. Hubert Smith, archeologist, during the periods he was not 
in the field, devoted his time to completion of final drafts of two 
major technical reports and one minor report. One major technical 
report was "Archeological Investigations at the Site of Fort Ber- 
thold II (32ML2), Garrison Reservoir, North Dakota"; the second 
was "Archeological Investigations at the Site of Fort Pierre II 
(39ST217), Oahe Reservoir, South Dakota." A brief report on 
excavations at site 39LM241 was also completed. On November 29, 
he served as chairman for a section of the Plains Conference for 
Archeology, devoted to historic sites archeology, and summarized the 
reports of the seven speakers. He submitted a book review of "New 
Discoveries at Jamestown" by John L. Cotter and J. Paul Hudson, 
which was published in the Autumn 1957 issue of Archeology. On 
January 2, Mr. Smith was detailed, on a reimbursable basis, to the 

492520—59 6 



72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

National Park Service to conduct archeological excavations at the 
site of Fort McHenry in Baltimore, Md. 

Richard P. Wheeler, archeologist, was at the Lincoln headquarters 
tliroughout the year until June 20. During this period he spent his 
time preparing technical reports on work completed in previous 
years. He completed the final section of a draft of a lengthy, detailed 
report on excavations conducted during 1949-51 in the Angostura 
Reservoir area in South Dakota and the Boyson and Keyhole Reser- 
voir areas in Wyoming. He also completed the draft of a technical 
report on excavations in the Jamestown Reservoir area in North 
Dakota. At the 15th Plains Conference for Archeology, in Lincoln, 
he presented a preliminary statement on the Stutsman Focus, and a 
paper, jointly with Harry E. Weakly, dealing with the cultural and 
chronological sequences at Birdshead Cave, Wyo. A third paper pre- 
sented at that meeting dealt with radiocarbon dates and prehistory in 
the central and northern Plains. As previously mentioned, he col- 
laborated with Charles H. McNutt in preparing a paper for submission 
to American Antiquity. From April 30 to May 3 he attended the 
annual meeting of the Society for American Archeology in Norman, 
Okla. 

Snake River Basin. — No field explorations were carried on in the 
Snake River Basin during the fiscal year. However, one report on 
the investigations made there during the previous year was completed. 
It is called "Archeological Salvage Investigations in the Hell's Canyon 
Area, Snake River, Oregon and Idaho." The manuscript consists of 
95 typed pages and has 8 plates and 6 text figures. The material and 
information upon which the report is based were mainly from two 
sites in the vicinity of Robinette, Oreg. Another report pertaining 
to the excavations on the Idaho side of the river at Big Bar has not 
yet been completed, but it is well under way. 

South Carolina-Georgia. — Excavations were made at two sites in 
the Hartwell Reservoir Basin during the period from April 22 to 
June 21. One of them was located in South Carolina and the other 
in Georgia. In addition, three other sites in the South Carolina area 
were inspected and an extensive surface collection of artifacts was 
made at one of them. Owing to the refusal of the owner to permit 
digging, no attempt was made at the latter site to determine its depth 
or the extent of its deposits. 

One of the sites where digging was carried on is located in the 
fork created by the juncture of the Tugaloo and Chauga Rivers. The 
site originally consisted of one large mound flanked on either side 
by a low mound. During the last 10 to 12 years the large mound was 
intentionally reduced in height in order to facilitate cultivation of 
the field where it is situated. Consequently its present height of 
12 feet above the level of the bottom lands does not represent its 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 73 

original height and its contour has also been modified. Four test areas 
were dug in the vicinity of the present apex of the mound to deter- 
mine if possible where the original apex had been, and also to discover 
the physical makeup of the feature and the possible purpose for its 
construction. One of the test areas exposed the outline of a rectangu- 
lar structure with rounded corners and a subterranean floor. The 
posts which had formed the walls had been placed at 2-foot intervals. 
Because of lack of time the house remains were not completely ex- 
cavated. Enough was done, however, to determine its general charac- 
teristics. Two of the other test areas showed that the mound had 
been erected in several stages over a period of years. In each case 
the exterior mantle consisted of a hard-packed bluish-gray sandy clay 
which varied from 3 to 6 inches in thickness. Each mantle in turn 
had been spread over a layer of clean river sand averaging 1 foot 
3 inches in thickness. There had been at least four such features, 
and additional digging may reveal still earlier ones. Not much arti- 
fact material was recovered, but such as was found indicates that 
the latest culture represented probably was Cherokee with an earlier 
underlying Etowah horizon. The site may well have been that of the 
Cherokee village and mound known as Chauga. 

On the Georgia side of the Tugaloo Elver approximately 2 miles 
downriver from the Yonah Dam of the Georgia Power Co. is a village 
and mound site which also has Cherokee aflinities. This is the largest 
site in the Hartwell Basin and lies on a sandy ridge 1,000 feet long 
and 150 feet wide which parallels the river. There was a small 
mound 150 feet from the northern limits of the ridge which upon 
excavation proved to be quite miusual. The top layer or mantle 
consisted of a sandy humus. This covered a small mound of river 
cobblestones of various weights and diameters which was approxi- 
mately 2 feet in height and 18 feet in diameter. Directly underneath 
the base of the rock mound was a series of seven heavy-packed ash 
and calcined bone-filled basin-shaped hearths. Each of the hearths 
was circular in outline and averaged slightly over 5 feet in diameter 
and from 1 foot to 18 inches in depth. Because of the presence of the 
fragmentary calcined bones it was thought that the basins served as 
crematory areas over a long period of time. After the last or upper- 
most hearth had served its purpose, the cobblestone mound was erected 
over the crematory area, perhaps to indicate that it was a place of 
particular significance or to protect the features lying beneath it. 
Thus far such a manifestation is unique in southeast archeology and 
it may indicate a local cult which has previously passed unnoticed 
or has not been reported. 

Adjacent to and south of the momid were the remains of three 
houses representing different types of structure. The uppermost was 
approximately square and the walls had been constructed by placing 



74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

individual posts in prepared post holes. Directly beneath those re- 
mains was evidence for a large rectangular "town-house" type of 
structure measuring 44 feet in length and 26 to 27 feet in width, 
with the doorway opening toward the south. The individual post 
form of construction had also been used in erecting that structure. 
Immediately beneath it and resting upon sterile red clay were the 
fragmentary remains of two small circular trench-type houses, the 
earliest form of house found throughout the Southeast. Additional 
work at this location would undoubtedly yield further evidence per- 
taining to the sequence of house forms and might also give a clue 
to their significance. 

Two unusual ceremonial burials were found in a test area some 40 
feet from the house remains. Tubular-shaped pits with saucer-shaped 
bottoms had been dug in the clean sterile sand of the ridge. The pits 
were approximately 2 feet in diameter and the walls of one had been 
lined with small cobblestones, while those in the other were left in 
their natural state. At the bottom of each pit, 6 feet 5 inches below 
the surface, were the fragmentary remains of a human cranium. 
Other bones may originally have been present, but they had long since 
disintegrated. The rock-lined pit was filled with a dark humic soil 
intermixed with some stones, while the other was filled with clean 
river sand. These burials may represent a new trait for that section 
of South Carolina, Georgia, and the Southeast. The specimens col- 
lected during the course of the work suggest that it was of Cherokee 
origin. The site has been identified, tentatively, as that of the Chero- 
kee Lower Settlements town of Estatoee by some. Others think 
further evidence is needed to demonstrate that such was the case, 
since historically it supposedly was on the South Carolina side of 
the river. Additional excavations are certainly warranted at that 
location. 

Cooperating institutions. — In addition to the several State and 
local institutions cooperating in the Missouri Basin, others partici- 
pated in the Inter- Agency Salvage Program in a nmnber of areas. 
The University of Arizona carried on investigations in the Painted 
Rocks Reservoir basin on the Gila River in Arizona. The Museum 
of Northern Arizona continued its explorations in the Glen Canyon 
Reservoir area on the Colorado River. The University of Utah also 
cooperated in the Glen Canyon project, working the upper end of 
the basin. The University of California made surveys and conducted 
excavations in the Trinity Reservoir area on the Trmity River, the 
Terminus Reservoir on the Kaweah River, in the Coyote Valley 
Reservoir area on the Russian River, and in the Washoe Reservoir 
basin on the Truckee River. The University of Southern California 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 75 

worked in the Buena Vista watershed project and the Arroyo Grande 
Creed watershed project in California. Idaho State College made 
surveys along the Upper Snake, the Salmon, and Middle Fork Kivers 
in Idaho. The University of Southern Illinois carried on surveys 
and excavations in the Carlyle Dam area on the Kaskaskia River in 
south-central Illinois. In New Mexico the School of American Re- 
search excavated in the Abiquiu Reservoir area along the Chama 
River and made surveys in the Navajo Reservoir area along the San 
Juan River in northern New Mexico and southwestern Colorado. The 
University of Oklahoma participated in three projects. One con- 
sisted of a reexamination of the Fort Gibson Reservoir basin on the 
Grand or Neosho River. Surveys and excavations were made there 
a number of years ago before the dam was completed and the area 
flooded. Because of a greatly lowered pool level last year it was 
possible to return to the area and examine a number of sites which 
had been under water for some time. The other two projects of the 
University of Oklahoma were in the Sandy Creek Reservoir area 
along the Blue River and Waurika Reservoir basin along Beaver 
Creek, a tributary of the Red River. The University of Oregon sur- 
veyed and excavated in two reservoir basins. One was the Immigrant 
on Beaver Creek, a tributary of the Rogue River, and the other was 
the John Day along the Columbia River. The University of Texas 
continued its excavation project at the Ferrell's Bridge Reservoir 
along Cypress Creek, a tributary of the Red River in eastern Texas. 
The State College of Washington continued excavations in the Ice 
Harbor Reservoir area along the Lower Snake River in southeastern 
Washington. In the New England area surveys were made on a per- 
sonal contract basis by one member of the Department of Anthro- 
pology at Harvard University and by a member of the faculty from 
Temple University at Philadelphia. All these projects were carried 
on under agreements with the National Park Service. In several 
areas local groups continued to assist on a voluntary basis. These 
activities were mainly in Ohio, Indiana, and southern California. 

ARCHIVES 

The Bureau archives continued during the year under the custody 
of Mrs. ^largaret C. Blaker. From June 1 to 6 Mrs, Blaker examined 
pictorial and manuscript collections relating to the American Indian 
in the University of Pennsylvania Museum in Philadelphia, and in 
the American Museum of Natural History, the Museum of the Amer- 
ican Indian, the New York Historical Society, the New York Public 
Library, and the Frick Art Reference Library in New York. On 
June 13 Miss Barbara Hemphill entered on duty as a summer interne, 
detailed to the archives. 



76 ANNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Photographic collections. — Anthropologists, historians, publishers, 
and interested members of the public continued in increasing numbers 
to draw upon the extensive photographic collections of the Bureau as 
a source of docmnentation and illustration. The year's total of 634 
orders and written and personal inquiries concerning photographs 
represents a 20-percent increase over the previous year's figure of 
444, and is almost double the 1956 total of 294. The 1,231 prints 
distributed is also an appreciable increase over the 1,019 of last year 
and 978 in 1956. The preparation and distribution, during the past 
2 years, of descriptive lists of specific portions of the photographic 
collections have undoubtedly made more searchers aware of the photo- 
graphic resources of the Bureau, the result being an increased num- 
ber of purchase requests. Lists describing photographs relating to 
86 tribes or subjects ai*e now available; 21 such lists were prepared 
during the past year. 

There were 22 new photographic collections received during the 
year, some of which are described below : 

A very important collection relating to North American Indians was 
received by transfer from the Library of Congress. It consists of some 
7,200 photographs pertaining to over 120 tribal units of the United 
States, Alaska, and Canada ; the Southwest, the Northwest Coast, the 
Plains, and the Great Lakes areas are particularly well covered. The 
photographs were made by professional photographers from approx- 
imately 1890 to 1920, and are of excellent photographic quality. Over 
two-thirds of them are outdoor views; the remainder are portraits, 
most of which are accompanied by the name of the individual. At 
year's end only a preliminary examination of the collection had been 
made. The arrangement and cataloging of the photographs by tribe 
and area will be a major project for the coming year. 

An album of 60 photographs relating to the several Indian tribes re- 
siding on the Muckleshoot Reservation, Wash., in the period 1902-36 
was received as a transfer from the Indian Claims Commission, 
through the courtesy of Arthur C. Ballard, who made and collected 
the photographs. The collection, with detailed captions, includes 
portraits of Indian informants and views of native activities and 
equipment such as fishing gear, firemaking equipment, ceremonial ob- 
jects, houses, and tools. 

A collection of about 40 photographs of Plains Indians made by 
commercial photographers of the late 19th century was received as a 
gift from the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, 
through John Witthoft, chief curator. Another group of 26 such 
photographs, including a number of Indian portraits by D. F. Barry, 
was lent for copying through the courtesy of Mr. Witthoft. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 77 

A series of about 35 negatives relating to the Acoma, Laguna, and 
Taos pueblos and to the Navaho and Paiute tribes, made by Vernon 
Bailey during the first decade of the 20th century, was received as a 
transfer from the Smithsonian library, where they had been deposited 
as a gift from Mrs. Vernon Bailey in 1945. 

Thirteen photographs of Chiricahua and Mescalero Apache Indians, 
including recent portraits of some descendants of prominent Apache 
personalities of the 19th century, were received from Mrs. Eve Ball, of 
Hollywood, N. Mex. With the assistance of Apache informants, Mrs. 
Ball also provided identifications and notes on several photographs in 
the Bureau collections. 

Copy prints of 24 portraits and view^s of activities at Carlisle Indian 
School, collected by O. H. Bakeless, ca. 1892-1902, were forwarded by 
Dr. Archibald Hanna as a gift from the Yale University Library, 
through the courtesy of John Bakeless, who owns the original prints. 

Eight copy photographs relating to Indians of Michigan in the 
period 1865-ca. 1900, collected from various sources by the Michigan 
Historical Commission, were received as a gift from the Commission, 
through the courtesy of Dr. Philip P. Mason. 

Mrs. Marion Vincent, of Sequim, Wash., lent for copying eight 
photographs of elderly Clallam Indians taken at various dates in the 
first half of the 20th century, including a portrait of old Doctor Hall, 
the boatmaker. 

Eichard Pohrt, of Flint, Mich., forwarded as a gift eight photo- 
graphs of Indians of California and adjacent western States, made by 
commercial photographers about 1900. 

Six photographs of Seminole Indians made in Collier County, Fla., 
ca. 1900-1928, were received from Dr. Charlton W. Tebeau, of Coral 
Gables, Fla., through Dr. William C. Sturtevant. 

Two snapshots of the tombstone of Joseph Pawnee No Pashee, first 
governor of the Osage (d. 1883), located at Pawhuska, Okla., were 
received as a gift from R. B. Schackleford, of Pawhuska. 

Manuscri'pt collections. — There is a continued increase in the utiliza- 
tion of the manuscript collections by anthropologists and other stu- 
dents. About 305 manuscripts were consulted by searchers, either in 
person or by the purchase of 9,696 pages of reproductions. In addi- 
tion, 68 mail inquiries concerning the manuscript collections were re- 
ceived, and a considerable number were examined by the archivist in 
preparing replies. As a result of this examination, new and more 
complete descriptions of 61 manuscripts were drafted for the catalog, 
annotations were added to numerous other catalog entries, and lists 
describing certain related groups were prepared for distribution. 

Thirteen lots of manuscript material were received in the archives. 
The following have been cataloged and made available for reference : 



78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 58 

4517. Beam, George L. (official photographer, Denver & Rio Grande Western 

Railroad). Miscellaneous correspondence and news clippings. Ca. 

1917-27. 1 portfolio. 
4507. Corbusier, William Henry. "Record of William Henry Corbusier, Colonel, 

U.S. Army, Retired." April 10, 1924. 30 pp., typed. Relates to the 

Apache Indians of Arizona. 
4505. GilfiUan, J. A. Chippewa dictionary (original draft?), notes on place 

names, etc. ; miscellaneous lot of notes, unarranged. Ca. 1911? 1 

portfolio. 
4521. Harrington, John P. Miscellaneous short manuscripts, unpublished. 

1940-52 and n.d. 1 box. (Titles listed in catalog.) 
3323. Marye, William B. Materials relating to tlie sites of Indian bridges, 

principally in Maryland and Virginia, and also in Delaware and North 

Carolina. 1932 ca.-1949 and 1956. 5 boxes. 

4524. Marye, William B. "Indian Shell Heaps on Chesapeake Bay and its 

Estuaries in Maryland ; Some Incomplete Data Collected by William B. 
Marye." 1913 ca.-1956. 1 portfolio. 

4514. Newcomb, C. F. "Sketch of Southern Portion of Queen Charlotte Islands, 
B.C." 1901. Manuscript map, approx. 33" x 58". 

4513. Njblack, Albert P. Notes and correspondence relating to the ethnology 
of the northwest coast of North America ; miscellaneous papers, un- 
arranged. Ca. 1SS4-S9. 1 portfolio. 

4525. Scott, Gen. Hugh L. Papers relating to Indian conditions, accumulated 

while serving on the Board of Indian Commissioners, February 25, 1919- 
July 25, 1933. 3 boxes. (Subject list in catalog.) 
4504. Sturtevant, William C. "Notes on the History and Bibliography of Ca- 
tawba Linguistic Studies." July-August 1957. 18 pp., typed. 

A summary description of the holdings of the Bureau archives was 
prepared for the National Historical Publications Commission, U.S. 
National Archives, for inclusion in the guide to depositories of manu- 
scripts in the United States being prepared by the Commission. 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

The Bureau staff artist, E. G. Schumacher, continued work during 
the year on a wide variety of artistic material for the Bureau of 
American Ethnology and River Basin Survej^s. An appreciable 
amount of time was also devoted to various illustrative tasks needed 
by different departments of the Smithsonian Institution. 

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBUCATIONS 

The Bureau's editorial work continued during the year under the 
immediate direction of Mrs. Eloise B. Edelen. There were issued one 
Annual Report and four Bulletins, as follows : 

Seventy-fourth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1956- 

1957. ii-f 28 pp., 2 pis. 1958. 
Bulletin 164. Anthropological Papers Nos. 49-56. x-|-356 pp., 75 pis., 5 figs., 
15 maps. 1957. 

No. 4i9. The Ormond Beach Mound, east-central Florida, by Jesse D. 
Jennings, Gordon R. Willey, and Marshall T. Newman. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 79 

No. 50. Hair pipes in Plains Indian adornment, a study In Indian and 

White ingenuity, by John C. Ewers. 
No. 51. Observations on some nineteenth-century pottery vessels from the 

Upper Missouri, by Waldo R. Wedel. 
No. 52. Revaluation of the Eastern Siouan problem, with particular em- 
phasis on the Virginia branches — the Occaneechi, the Saponi, and the 
Tutelo, by Carl F, Miller. 
No. 53. An archeological reconnaissance in southeastern Mexico, by Mat- 
thew W. Stirling. 
No. 54. Valladolid Maya enumeration, by John P. Harrington. 
No. 55. Letters to Jack Wilson, the Paiute Prophet, written between 1908 and 

1911, edited and with an introduction by Grace M. Dangberg. 
No. 56. Factionalism at Taos Pueblo, New Mexico, by William N. Fenton. 
Bulletin 165. Music of Acoma, Isleta, Cochiti, and Zufii Pueblos, by Frances 

Densmore. xii-fllS pp., 6 pis. 1957. 
Bulletin 166. River Basin Surveys Papers, No. 8. Excavations in the McNary 
Reservoir Basin near Umatilla, Oregon, by Douglas Osborne. With ap- 
pendixes by Marshall T. Newman, Arthur Woodward, W. J. Kroll, and B. H. 
McCleod. x+258 pp., 40 pis., 6 figs., 19 maps. 1957. 
Bulletin 167. Archeological investigations at the mouth of the Amazon, by 
Betty J. Meggers and Clifford Evans, xxvili+664 pp., 112 pis., 206 figs. 1957. 

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal 
year: 

Bulletin 143, vol. 7. Index to the Handbook of South American Indians. 
Bulletin 168. The Native Brotherhoods: Modern intertribal organizations on 

the Northwest coast, by Philip Drucker. 
Bulletin 169. River Basin Surveys Papers, Nos. 9-14 : 

No. 9. Archeological investigations in the Heart Butte Reservior ai-ea. North 

Dakota, by Paul L. Cooper. 
No. 10. Archeological investigations at the Tuttle Creek Dam, Kansas, by 

Robert B. Cumming, Jr. 
No. 11. The Spain site (39LM301), a winter village in Fort Randall Reser- 
voir, South Dakota, by Carlyle S. Smith and Roger T. Grange, Jr. 
No. 12. The Wilbanks site (9CK-5), Georgia, by William H. Sears. 
No. 13. Historic sites in and around the Jim Woodruff Reservoir area, 

Florida-Georgia, by Mark F. Boyd. 
No. 14. Six sites near the Chattahoochee River in the Jim Woodruff Reser- 
voir area, Florida, by Ripley P. Bullen. 
Bulletin 170. Excavations at La Venta, Tabasco, 1955, by Philip Drucker, Robert 
P. Helzer, and Robert J. Squier. With appendixes by Jonas B. Qullberg, 
Garniss H. Curtis, and A. Starker Leopold. 
Bulletin 171. The North Alaskan Eskimo: A study in ecology and society, by 

Robert F. Spencer. 
Bulletin 172. The story of a Tlingit community : A problem in the relationship 
between archeological, ethnological, and historical methods, by Frederica de 
Laguna. 
Bulletin 173. Ajithropological Papers Nos. 57-62 : 

No. 57. Preceramic and ceramic cultural patterns in Northwest Virginia, 

by C. G. Holland. 
No. 58. An introduction to Plains Apache archeology — the Dismal River 

Aspect, by James H. Gunnerson. 
No. 59. The use of the atlatl on Lake Patzcuaro, Michoacan, by M. W. 
Stirling. 



80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

No. 60. A Caroline Islands script, by Saul H. Riesenberg and Shigeru 
Kaneshiro. 

No. 61. Dakota winter counts as a source of Plains history, by James H. 
Howard. 

No. 62. Stone tipi rings in uortli-central Montana and the adjacent portion 
of Alberta, Canada : Their historical, ethnological, and archeological as- 
pects, by Thomas F. Kehoe. 

Publications distributed totaled 28,131 as compared with 28,558 
for the fiscal year 1957. 

COLLECTIONS 
Ace. No. 

216667. Late 18th-century wine bottle. 

219119. Miscellaneous archeological objects. 

FROM EIVEB BASIN STISVEYS 

216556. Archeological and human skeletal material from Nebraska, excavated 
by River Basin Surveys archeologists in the summer of 1948. 

217608,218413. Archeological material excavated from Buffalo Pasture site in 
Oahe Reservoir, Stanley County, S. Dak. 

214120,217212. (through Dr. Robert L. Stephenson) 21 land and fresh-water 
moUusks from Oregon, Wyoming, and South Dakota. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Dr. John E. Swanton, ethnologist on the staff of the Bureau from 
1900 to 1944 and a research associate since his retirement, died at 
his home in Newton, Mass., on May 2, 1958. Dr. Swanton is best 
known for his extensive work on the Indians of the Southeastern 
United States and as chairman of the DeSoto Commission. He was 
the author of 5 extensive articles in the Annual Report series of the 
Bureau, 12 complete Bulletins, 2 Anthropological Papers, and 2 pa- 
pers in the War Background Studies. Pie was coauthor of three Bul- 
letins and edited Byington's Choctaw Dictionary. His The Indians 
of the Southeasteim, United States.^ Bulletin 137, and The Indian 
Tribes of North America^ Bulletin 145, are outstanding contributions. 
The report of the DeSoto Commission, of which he was the unnamed 
author, is in continuing demand. Dr. Swanton was a member of the 
National Academy of Sciences. He received the Viking Medal and 
Award for Anthropology in 1948. 

Dr. John P. Harrington and Dr. A. J. Waring continued as re- 
search associates of the Bureau of American Ethnology. Dr. M. W. 
Stirling, as research associate, used the facilities of the Bureau 
laboratory and continued his study of collections made on field trips 
to Panama and Ecuador in previous years. 

There were 2,772 letters of inquiry about American Indians and 
related problems received in the Director's office during the year. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 81 

Information was furnished by staff members in answer to many of 
the queries, and to others, information leaflets or other printed items 
were supplied. 

Eleven bibliographies or information leaflets were prepared or 
revised and duplicated for distribution to the public, as follows : 

SII/-16, 2d rev., 6/58. Indian Crafts and Indian Lore. (Bibliography.) 3 pp. 

SIL-50, rev., 8/57. Selected List of Portraits of Prominent Indians in the Col- 
lections of the Bureau of American Ethnology. 3 pp. 

SIL-90, rev., 3/58. Dealers in Second-Haud Scientific and Government Publica- 
tions. 2 pp. 

SIL-100, 8/57. Anthropology as a Career. 18 pp. (Beading list, pp. 14-18.) 

SIL-105, 8/57. Selected Bibliography on Cherokee Customs and History. 4 pp. 

SIL-132, 12/57. Selected References on the Middle American Area. 5 pp. 

SIL-133, 12/57. Bibliography on Indian Languages and Language Families. 
6 pp. 

SIL-134, 12/57. American Indian Languages. (Explanation.) 2 pp. 

SIL-137, 12/57. The Cherokee Language. (Explanation with references.) 2 pp. 

SIL-174, 6/58. Selected References on the Indians of the Southeastern United 
States. 12 pp. 

SIL-175, e/58. Selected References on Present-day Conditions among United 
States Indians. 9 pp. 

In addition to the leaflets described above, many bibliographies and 
information leaflets were compiled on topics of a general or specific 
nature, linguistic problems or terms, picture information, etc., and 
typescript copies sent out to hundreds of civic organizations such as 
the Scouts, Campfire Girls, summer camps, church clubs, and women's 
clubs throughout the country, as well as to the general public. The 
information files and bibliographic material were constantly reviewed 
by staff members so that the most up-to-date material for term papers 
could be sent in answer to hundreds of requests from high school and 
college students. Manuscripts were frequently read and appraised by 
staff members for colleagues and scientific organizations. Specimens 
were identified for owners and data on them supplied. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Astrophysical Observatory 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera- 
tions of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended June 
30,1958: 

The Astrophysical Observatory includes two research divisions: 
the Division of Astrophysical Eesearch, for the study of solar and 
other sources of energy impinging on the earth, and the Division of 
Radiation and Organisms, for investigations dealing with radiation 
as it bears directly or indirectly upon biological problems. Shops — 
for metalwork, woodwork, and optical electronic work — are main- 
tained in Washington to prepare special equipment for both divisions, 
and a shop for high precision mechanical work at Cambridge. A field 
station for solar observation is located at Table Mountain, Calif. 

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH 

The most important event of the past year was the activation of the 
Optical Satellite Tracking Program, within two hours of the launch- 
ing of the first artificial earth satellite on October 4, 1957. The 
resulting data have already produced vital new information about 
the density and temperature of the upper atmosphere and the earth's 
equatorial bulge. The exploration of space by manned and unmanned 
space vehicles continues to receive study, and specific plans have been 
formulated for placing an astronomical telescope in a satellite orbit. 

The Observatory has pursued its investigation of solar-system phe- 
nomena, particularly of cosmic gas dynamics and celestial mechanics ; 
and studies of the origin, structure, and probable age of meteorites 
have continued. 

The close liaison between the Astrophysical Observatory and the 
Harvard College Observatory, the Massachusetts Institute of Tech- 
nology, and other research centers in the Boston area continues to 
bring mutual benefit. Its long-term goal, to make crucial astronomi- 
cal observations and experiments above the atmosphere, is well on the 
way to realization. 

Solar astrophysics. — At the Table Mountain Station, Alfred G. 
Froiland has been measuring atmospheric ozone, to determine the 
light absorption of ozone in a vertical path, both in the visible spectral 
range and in the infrared, from a single spectrobologram ; and also, 
possibly, to measure the quantity and quality of haze. This study 
82 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 83 

may reveal other related effects of energy absorption in the upper 
atmosphere. By calculating theoretical spectra for early-type stars, 
and calculating the blanketing effects in the solar atmosphere, Dr. Max 
Krook has been investigating the propagation of disturbances through 
a stellar atmosphere, and associated phenomena such as radio fre- 
quency emission and the acceleration of charged particles. With Dr. 
J. C. Pecker, of the Paris Observatory, he plans to apply a method 
he has devised for solving equations in nongray atmospheres. Dr. 
Krook continues his efforts to obtain exact numerical solutions of non- 
linear kinetic equations for the case of shear flow with heat transfer, 
and to determine a wide range of values of the Mach number, the 
Knudsen number, and the temperature ratio. Such solutions will 
bear on the validity of various approximation procedures for solving 
Boltzmann equations. The formal mathematical analysis of these and 
related problems was completed this year. 

Dr. Charles Whitney continued the investigation of gas-dynamical 
problems associated with the solar atmosphere and the atmospheres of 
variable stars. He has formulated the equations appropriate to the 
solar atmosphere; initial integrations have been performed on an 
electronic computer, and the stability of the equation is being investi- 
gated. From studying variable stars of small amplitude and their 
pulsational instability, he hopes to determine the exact limits to the 
domains of variable stars, and the properties of variables near these 
limits. Spectrographic data on cepheid variables will furnish an 
empirical foundation for subsequent investigations of the gas dy- 
namics of variable stars. Dr. Whitney is also testing the theory that 
the ionization zone is the seat of pulsational instability. During the 
year he completed a detailed theoretical explanation of the period- 
luminosity relationship, which has significance for problems of stellar 
evolution and the size of the galaxy. 

Dr. Alan S. Meltzer, before he left the Observatory in September 
1957, carried out studies of solar line profiles and the variation of 
Doppler half- widths of lines with varying atomic weights, to deter- 
mine whether the broadening mechanism is kinetic temperature or 
turbulence. The atomic- weight dependence of the Doppler broaden- 
ing of these lines corresponds to a kinetic temperature of about 10,000° 
K, a value substantially higher than that predicted by accepted 
theories of the solar atmosphere. 

Upper atmosphere. — Dr. Theodore E. Sterne has been studying the 
inferential methods used in evaluating observational data, and the 
probable degree of validity of the resulting conclusions — one of the 
most important problems in astronomy today. He has developed 
methods based on celestial mechanics for inferring the density of the 
upper atmosphere from the motions of artificial earth satellites; 



84 AISTNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

application of the formula indicates a value several times higher than 
previous estimates. Such information will greatly improve our 
understanding of solar-terrestrial relationships in general. Dr. Sterne 
is also developing general literal analytical theories of the motions 
of satellites of flattened planets. Since adequate numerical treat- 
ments are costly and time-consuming, a comprehensive analytical 
treatment is desirable to facilitate the inference of air densities, and 
possibly of gravitational anomalies, from observations of satellites. 

Balloon experiments relating to stellar scintillation are being carried 
out by Dr. J. Allen Hynek and George J. Nielson, in cooperation with 
Col. David G. Simons of the Aero Medical Field Laboratory, Hollo- 
man Air Force Base, the Winzen Laboratories of Minneapolis, and the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology Instrumentation Laboratories. 
This project hopes to determine how the scintillation spectrum varies 
with atmospheric height and the altitude at which the scintillation 
effect termmates; to test miniature instrumentation for future use; 
and to initiate an airborne research program for the Astrophysical 
Observatory. 

A new technique that will extend astronomical observations to the 
far ultraviolet region of the spectrum and to the X-ray region is being 
developed by the Director and Kobert J. Davis of the Observatory 
staff. This involves the design of a telescope for use in space, and 
the completion of related theoretical scientific and engineering studies. 

The Director completed a theoretical study of the nature and thick- 
ness of the lunar dust layer. He concludes that the layer of loose dust 
is not appreciable and that it can consolidate into a porous matrix, 
so that it will not be a major hindrance to our exploration of the moon. 

M eteoritical studies. — Research on meteors has been emphasized at 
the Astrophysical Observatory. The Director's predictions as to the 
small number of meteoritic bodies likely to strike vehicles in space have 
been supported by the early data from the artificial earth satellites. 
Continuing studies of the relation between meteors and comets are 
expected to yield more information about the nature and origin of 
comets. Under the supervision of Dr. Luigi G. Jacchia, some 400 
meteors photographed with Super-Schmidt cameras have been ana- 
lyzed to determine the nature and distribution of meteoritic orbits. 
From analysis of the atmospheric decelerations, light curves, and 
photographic appearances, he concludes that meteors are highly f rag- 
mentable and often dissolve into a cluster of fragments. He finds no 
evidence for meteors of asteroidal origin among the precise data from 
the 400 reductions, and no hyperbolic meteors have been certainly 
detected. All photographic meteors appear to be of cometary origin. 
From a comparison of visual and photographic magnitudes of meteors, 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 85 

Dr. Jacchia concludes that visual estimates of meteor brightness are 
strongly affected by the Purkinje effect when the meteors are fainter 
than magnitude — 1. Such an effect is bound to influence all statistics 
and extrapolations based on visual meteor counts. 

In a study of the width of meteor trails, the Director and Dr. G. S. 
Hawkins found that the meteor colmnns had a finite diameter of 
approximately 1.3 m larger than would be expected from diffusion; 
the width is attributed to a continuous fragmentation process. 

Under the direction of Dr. John S. Kinehart, the Observatory has 
expanded its study of meteorites, as projected last year. Much has 
already been achieved toward the attainment of the four chief goals: 
Collecting and identifying micrometeorites in the upper atmosphere ; 
designing and constructing an X-ray fluorescent microanalyzer, under 
the direction of Dr. F. Behn Riggs, Jr., to use for the point-to-point 
analysis of the metallic constituents of iron meteorites ; measuring the 
abundance of isotopes in meteorites, under the direction of Dr. Edward 
L. Fireman ; studying the surface features of meteorites for evidence 
of ablation. Dr. Rinehart has concentrated on the study of micro- 
meteorites and ablation. He and Paul Hodge designed a special col- 
lector, for use in aircraft, which filters and recovers particulate matter 
from the air. Some 30 high-altitude flights have now collected sev- 
eral thousand particles which are almost certainly of extraterrestrial 
origin. This program will expand during the next year. 

Edward P. Henderson of the XJ. S. National Museum and Prof. 
David Williams of the University of Florida have assisted in the 
detailed study of ablation ; the surface features of the Grant Meteorite 
received particular attention. 

Studies of high-speed impact, in which meteoritic material was fired 
at bricklike materials, were initiated, and results of these tests are 
now being analyzed. 

Dr. Edward L. Fireman completed his investigation of the exposure 
time of meteorites to cosmic rays, and the energy of cosmic rays in 
space, by measuring the argon 39 in the Sikhote- Alin Meteorite. From 
measurement of this and other radioactive isotopes, he can estimate 
the probable age and original shape of various meteorites, and con- 
cludes that the Carbo Meteorite reached the earth about 1,500 years 
years ago, and was a nonspherical object in space. 

John Wood is attempting to relate the various types of silicate 
meteorites to a parent planet, and investigate the processes that take 
place during the early stages of planetary evolution. Carlos Var- 
savsky, as consultant to the Astrophysical Observatory, carried out 
calculations that indicate a lunar origin for tektites; he showed that 
the Wliipple-Rinehart model for the ejection of tektites from the 



86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

moon could account for their observed distribution over the earth's 
surface. 

A metallographic study of the structure of meteorites is being 
made by Mrs. Lynne Farrell. 

Satellite Tracking Program. — This program, under the direction 
of Dr. J. Allen Hynek, began operating on a 24-hour basis immediately 
after the launching of the first sputnik. By the end of the fiscal year, 
the 12 stations for the optical tracking of artificial earth satellites 
were completed. The Baker-Nunn cameras for the precision photo- 
graphic program had been installed, and 20 observers and their fami- 
lies had reached their posts. Pending the installation of the cameras, 
an interim observational program was carried out, under the super- 
vision of Dr. Richard E. McCrosky, in Hawaii, and Kemieth Morrison, 
in Argentina. Since the cameras began operation they have produced 
many successful observations of the satellites, serving as the basis for 
scientific research and analysis. 

The Moonwatch program, under the supervision of Leon Campbell, 
Jr., was activated within a few hours of the first launching. As of the 
end of the year, 230 registered teams working all over the world have 
contributed valuable data on the various satellites. Since the begin- 
ning of the program on October 4, 1957, they have sent more than 
4,000 observations to the computations center at the Astrophysical 
Observatory. 

The reduction and analysis of the optical observations proceeded 
under the supervision of Richard Adams. From calculations based on 
the computational methods devised by Drs. L. E. Cunningham, T. E, 
Sterne, L. G. Jacchia, C. A. Whitney, and D. Lautman, the Astro- 
physical Obervatory has been able regularly to provide orbital predic- 
tions of satellite passages, vital for the successful optical tracking of 
the satellites, and subsequent evaluation of telemetered readings of 
on-board instrumentation. 

Scientific analyses of data obtained by the Satellite Tracking Pro- 
gram were carried out by various members of the staff. From prelimi- 
nary determinations of upper atmosphere parameters, basic new 
knowledge was gained of the density and temperature of the upper 
atmosphere above an altitude of 150 kilometers, which will apply to 
the design of future satellites and of rocket-powered glide and skip 
aircraft and to problems of reentry of objects in ballistic orbits. Other 
new information obtained to date includes an improved value of the 
coefficient "J" of gravitational flattening. 

In partial fulfillment of its contractual obligations to the Inter- 
national Geophysical Year, through the National Science Foundation, 
the Observatory issued a series of special reports on the results 
of satellite data analysis, at intervals of roughly two weeks. Under 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 87 

the supervision of Dr. Gerhard F. Schilling, 13 reports issued between 
October 15 and June 30 received wide distribution. 

In conjunction with the satellite observations, a program has been 
developed for obtaining observations of the earth's albedo. For this 
study A. Danjon has developed an ingenious differential photometer. 
On the recommendations of Dr. J. Allen Hynek and Dr. George van 
Biesbroeck, six stations have now been equipped with the instrument 
and preliminary observations have already reached the Astrophysical 
Observatory. 

PUBLICATIONS 

Volume 2 of the Smithsonian Contributions to Astrophysics was 
completed, with the publication of numbers 5-13. Number 10 was of 
particular importance in presenting a complete collection of the optical 
observations of Satellites 1957 Alpha and 1957 Beta, during their 
entire lifetimes. 

During the currrent year the following publications by staff mem- 
bers of the Astrophysical Observatory appeared in various journals: 

Adams, R. M. ; McCumber, N. ; and Brinkman, M. Pi'ocessed observational data 
for U.S.S.R. Satellites 1957 Alpha and 1957 Beta. Smithsonian Contr. 
Astrophys., vol. 2, pp. 287-337, 1958. 

AsHBEOOK, J. ; Schilling, G. F. ; and Sterne, T. E. Glossary of astronomical 
terms for the description of satellite orbits. Smithsonian Contr. Astro- 
phys., vol. 2, pp. 211-217, 1958. 

Campbell, L., Jr., and Hynek, J. A. Visual observations of Satellite 1957 Alpha 
One made by Moonwatch stations. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, 
pp. 245-274, 1958. 

Davis, R. J. 21-em observations near galactic longitude 120°. Astrophys. Journ., 
vol. 125, p. 391, 1957. 

Davis, R. J. ; Welles, R. C. ; and Whipple, F. L. On determining the orienta- 
tion of a cylindrical artificial earth satellite. Astronautica Acta, vol. 3, 
p. 231, 1957. 

Fireman, E. L. Argon-39 in the Sikhote-Alin meteorite fall. Nature, vol. 181, 
p. 1613, 1958. 

. The distribution of helium-3 in the Carbo meteorite. Nature, vol. 181, 

p. 1725, 1958. 

. Nuclear processes in geology. In "Nuclear Science Series," Nat. Res. 



Council, Nat. Acad. Sci., June 1958. 

Fireman, E. L., and Zahringeb, J. Depth variation of tritium and argon-37 
produced by high-energy protons in iron. Phys. Rev., vol. 107, p. 1695, 1957. 

Jacchia, L. G. On the "color-index" of meteors. Astron. Journ., vol. 62, p. 358, 
1957. 

. On two parameters used in the physical theory of meteors. Smith- 
sonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, pp. 181-187, 1958. 

. Basic orbital data for Satellite 1957 /31. Smithsonian Contr. Astro- 
phys., vol. 2, p. 285, 1958. 

. Successive revisions of orbital elements for Satellite 1957 Beta. 

Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, p. 339, 1958. 
492520—59 7 



88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

RiNEHABT, J. S. Meteorites. Discovery, August 1957, p. 336. 

, Distribution of meteoritic debris about the Arizona meteorite crater. 

Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, pp. 145-160, 1958. 
. Fracturing under impulsive loading. Bull. Univ. Missouri School of 

Mines and Metallurgy, No. 95, 1958. 
. Optical tracking of earth satellites. Bull. Amer. Phys. Soc, ser. 2, 



vol. 3, p. 290, 1958. 

RiNEHABT, J. S., and Schilling, G. F. Additional orbit information for 
U.S.S.R. Satellites 1957 al and /31. Smithsonian Ck)ntr. Astrophys., vol. 
2, p. 199, 1958. 

Schilling, G. F. Soviet orbit information for Satellites 1957 a2 and /3l. 
Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, p. 281, 1958. 

Schilling, G. F., and Fergusson, E. S. Soviet orbit predictions and orbital in- 
formation for Satellites 1957 al, a2, and Beta. Smithsonian Contr. Astro- 
phys., vol. 2, p. 219, 1958. 

Schilling, G. F., and Sterne, T. E. Preliminary orbit information for 
U.S.S.R. Satellites 1957 al and a2. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 
2, p. 191, 1958. 

Slowey, J. W. A chart for finding a satellite's distance and elevation. Smith- 
sonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, p. 343, 1958. 

Sterne, T. E. A suggested analytical treatment of the orbit of a close satellite. 
Astron. Journ., vol. 62, p. 33, 1957. 

. Analytical orbits of close satellites of oblate planets. Astron. Journ., 

vol. 62, p. 96, 1957. 

. Celestial mechanics of artificial satellites. Sky and Telescope, vol. 17, 

p. 66, 1957. 

. The gravitational orbit of a satellite of an oblate planet. Astron. 

Journ., vol. 63, p. 28, 1958. 

. Formula for inferring atmospheric density from the motion of an 



artificial earth satellite. Science, vol. 127, p. 1245, 1958. 

Sterne, T. E., and Dieter, N. The constancy of the "solar constant." Astron. 
Journ., vol. 62, p. 147, 1957. 

Sterne, T. E. ; Folkart, B. M. ; and Schilling, G. F, An interim model at- 
mosphere fitted to preliminary densities inferred from U.S.S.R. satellites. 
Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, p. 275, 1958. 

Sterne, T. E., and Schilling, G. F. Some preliminary values of upper at- 
mosphere density from observations of U.S.S.R. satellites. Smithsonian 
Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, p. 207, 1958. 

Vabsavskt, C. M. Origin of tektites. Nature, vol. 181, p. 172, 1958. 

Whipple, F. L. Exploring the upper atmosphere. Think, vol. 23, p. 5, 1957. 

. Comments on the sunward tail of Comet Arend-Roland. Sky and 

Telescope, vol. 16, p. 426, 1957. 

. The meteoritic risk to space vehicles. In "Vistas in Astronautics," 

p. 115. Pergamon Press, 1957. 

. Orbit accuracy and ranges for ground-based optical tracking. In 

"Vistas in Astronautics," p. 258. Pergamon Press, 1957. 

. Optical tracking of artificial earth satellites. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, 

vol. 103, p. 215, 1958. 

. Stand by for satellite take-off. Pop. Mechanics, vol. 108, p. 65, 1957. 

. Observations of Satellite I. Sci. American, vol. 197, p. 37, 1957. 



Whipple, F. L. ; Boyd, L. G. ; Hynek, J. A. ; and Schilling, G. F. (editors). Or- 
bital data and preliminary analyses of Satellites 1957 Alpha and 1957 Beta. 
Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, No. 10, pp. 189-347, 1958. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 89 

Whitnbtt, C. a. Comments on the present status of the pulsation theory. Astron. 

Journ., vol. 62, p. 149, 1958. 
. The Ca II emission of classical Cepheids. Mem. Soc. Roy. Sci. LlSge, 

ser. 4, vol. 20, 1958. 
. Granulation and oscillations of tlie solar atmosphere. Smithsonian 



Contr. Astrophys., vol. 2, p. 365, 1958. 

Whitney, C. A., and Cox, J. P. Stellar pulsation. IV. A semitheoretical period- 
luminosity relation for classical Cepheids. Astrophys. Journ., vol, 127, p. 
561, 1958. 

Whitney, C. A., and Stone, P. Numerical integration for nonadiabatic com- 
pression waves in the solar atmosphere. Astron. Journ., vol. 62, p. 149, 1957. 

Weight, F. W. ; Jacchia, L. G. ; and Whipple, F. L. Photographic i-Aquarid 
meteors and evidence for the northern Aquarids. Astron. Journ., vol. 62, p. 
225, 1957. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

Various members of the staff attended meetings and presented 
papers before the American Astronomical Society, the American Phys- 
ical Society, the American Geophysical Union, the National Tele- 
metering Conference, the American Institute of Mining and Metallur- 
gical Engineers Conference, and the American Meteorological Society. 

Every member of the scientific staff has given lectures before schools, 
colleges, civic groups, and military organizations, on the subjects of 
satellites and space. Some have taken part in round-table discussions 
on television and radio. 

For the annual meeting of the Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, the Observatory displayed a series of models illustrating the 
Baker-Nunn camera, the Norrman time standard, and the satellite 
tracking station buildings and layout. 

Dr. J. Allen Hynek represented the Astrophysical Observatory at 
the opening ceremonies of the satellite tracking station at Curasao. 
He also took part in two symposia : Space Telescopes, at the Air Tech- 
nical International Center, Wright-Patterson Air Station ; High Al- 
titudes, at Bethesda, Md. 

Leon Campbell, Jr., represented the Director at the Eighth Annual 
Congress of the International Astronautical Federation, in Barcelona, 
Spain. 

Dr. Gerhard F. Schilling represented the Smithsonian Institution 
at the Eleventh National Conference on the Administration of Re- 
search, held in "Washington, D.C. At a special meeting of the Na- 
tional Academy of Sciences, May 1958, he reported the scientific results 
obtained by the Optical Satellite Tracking Program. 

Dr. John S. Rinehart participated in the Symposium on Properties 
of Materials of the American Institute of Metallurgical, Mechanical, 
and Petroleum Engineers in New York, and the Symposium on Min- 
ing Research at the Missouri School of Mines. He also lectured at 
the Summer Science Institute at Northeast Missouri State Teachers 
College. 



90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Dr. Gerhard F. Schilling, Dr. J. Allen Hynek, and the Director 
participated in conferences of the Teclinical Panel on the Earth Satel- 
lite Program of the National Academy of Sciences' U.S. National 
Committee for the International Geophysical Year, as well as meet- 
ings of various working groups of the Special Committee on Space 
Teclinology of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics. 

Dr. Luigi G. Jaccliia, at the end of May, visited various Caribbean 
islands to make an on-the-spot investigation of the demise of Satellite 
1957 Beta, from reports of eyewitnesses. 

The Director served as delegate to the Eleventh General Assembly 
of the International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics in Toronto, 
last September, and was a participant in the Conference on America's 
Human Resources to Meet the Scientific Challenge, sponsored in 
February 1958 by the President's Committee on Scientists and En- 
gineers at New Haven, Conn. He was a contributor to the Second 
Annual Air Force Ofiice of Scientific Research Astronautics Sympo- 
sium at Denver, Colo., in April 1958, presenting a paper "On the 
Lunar Dust Layer." 

In national science and defense, the Director was called to testify, 
on April 21, 1958, before the U.S. House of Representatives Select 
Committee on Astronautics and Space Exploration, on the needs for 
the United States of America in space exploration. He served as 
consultant to the U.S. Office of Naval Research and to the U.S. Air 
Weather Service on problems related to the coming Age of Space. 
He has been elected chairman of the Technical Panel on Rocketry 
and is a member of the Technical Panel on the Earth Satellite Pro- 
gram of the International Geophysical Year; chairman of the Panel 
on the Atmosphere, Scientific Advisory Board to the Air Force ; mem- 
ber of the Committee on Cosmic and Terrestrial Relationships of the 
American Geophysical Union ; and member of the working group on 
Space Surveillance, National Advisory Committee on Aeronautics. 

The Director is editor of the Smithsonian Contributions to Astro- 
physics and of a new international publication : Planetary and Space 
Physics. 

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS 

Research on photomechanisms in plants continued, with special 
emphasis on those growth responses controlled by low levels of red 
and blue radiant energy. Further investigations by Dr. William 
PI. Klein and Victor Elstad were made of the red, far-red mechanism 
that controls photomorphogenic processes in seed germination, seed- 
ling development, flowering, and other related responses. In these 
responses, the red (620-680 m/t) induces the growth response, which 
can be nullified by subsequent exposure to the far-red (710-730 m/i) . 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 91 

If bean seedlings are simultaneously exposed to monochromatic 
red and far-red radiant energy, the growth response elicited is deter- 
mined by the energy ratio of the two sources. The red response is 
dominant, even up to ratios of 1 to 10, although at this ratio the 
response is only 50 percent of that produced by red used alone. 

The mteraction of gibberellin, kinetin, and cobalt with the photo- 
process has been studied and evaluated. The results indicate that 
there is no direct interaction between red irradiance and the added 
substances, although all these materials do exert a modifying influence 
on the final growth response. These reactions were assayed by the 
measurement of the opening of the stem hook of young Black Valen- 
tine bean seedlings, which has been shown to be a quantitative deter- 
mination of the growth response. 

Dr. John B. Wolff and Leonard Price continued studies on the 
effects of radiant energy on the biosynthesis of protochlorophyll in 
leaves of higher plants grown in the dark. A single exposure to a 
saturating irradiance of red or blue energy converts most of the 
protochlorophyll present in the dark-grown leaf to chlorophyll a. 
Subsequently, protochlorophyll is resynthesized in the dark from 
precursors present in the leaf, but during the first 2 or 3 hours this 
process is very slow. Later, the rate of synthesis gradually increases. 
The experimental procedure followed was to expose the leaves briefly 
to monochromatic energy, then incubate in the dark overnight, and 
next test for their ability to resynthesize protochlorophyll. It was 
found that red energy near 650 m/A is more effective than an equal 
quantity of blue energy near 445 m/t in stimulating the rate of proto- 
clilorophyll resynthesis. These wavelengths were selected because 
they are at the maxima of the action spectrum for the photochemical 
conversion of protochlorophyll to chlorophyll a. If the red irradia- 
tion is followed immediately by a treatment with far-red energy be- 
tween 710 and 730 m/i, the stimulatory action due to red energy can 
be largely nullified. The far-red energy by itself had little effect on 
pigment synthesis. 

In a study of the biochemical changes involved in the development 
and maturation of the chloroplast of higher plants, some progress 
has been made in the isolation of intact proplastids from dark-grown 
leaves. In excised leaves which had been irradiated with red energy, 
both the protein concentration and dry weight of the isolated plastid 
fraction were found to have increased over those of etiolated leaves, 
but the protein had increased more rapidly than the dry weight. 
Studies are now in progress to determine the conditions for biosyn- 
thesis of plastid components, with emphasis on the carbohydrate 
energy sources required for such syntheses. 



92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Dr. Alice P. Withrow and Dr. Walter Shropshire, Jr., measured 
the growth of tomato plants given various regimes of light sequences 
which involved supplementing a iT-hour period of high- intensity 
fluorescent light with 7 hours of red and/or far-red radiant energy. 
It was found that neither red nor infrared caused any increase in 
height as compared to those that received a 7-hour dark period. 
However, a far-red exposure given during the 7-hour period, either 
continuously or in a sequence of 15 minutes on and 15 minutes off, 
caused the stems to almost double in length. If, in the 7-hour period, 
the far-red were followed by red, only a slight growth was noted. If 
this procedure were in effect for 14 complete cycles on each of 15 con- 
secutive days, totaling 210 cycles, more than 90 percent reversal of 
the far-red growth potentiation was secured. Undoubtedly, the far- 
red acts as a reversing agent of the red-inhibited stem growth initiated 
during the 17-hour high-intensity period. Cycling the far-red with 
red prevents the far-red action. It also was found that the chloro- 
phyll content of the youngest mature leaves was reduced by 20 per- 
cent if they were exposed to 7 hours of far-red. There was little 
change if red or infrared were used during the 7-hour period. 

It has previously been reported that far-red radiant energy in the 
spectral region from 710 to 820 m/x, when used as a supplement to 
X-rays, significantly increases the frequency of chromosomal aberra- 
tions. This year. Dr. Robert B. Withrow and Dr. Carl C. Moh ex- 
tended the study to determine the region of far-red which gives the 
maximum effectiveness in increasing the X-ray effect on chromosomal 
breakage. 

Root tips of broad bean (Vicia fdba) were pretreated with a 3-hour 
exposure of far-red radiant energy of a specific wavelength and then 
irradiated with 100 roentgens of X-rays. Using an irradiance of 
1500 /iw/cm', wavelengths at 730, 760, 780, 800, and 820 mp. were 
tested. It was found that roots irradiated at 760 m^u, yielded 67 per- 
cent more chromosomal aberrations than the control (X-rays only), 
and those with 780 mju,, 54 percent, both increases statistically signifi- 
cant. Pretreatment with radiant energy at 800 m/i increased the ab- 
errations by 20 percent, but 730 and 820 m/x gave no increase. It may 
be concluded that far-red radiant energy from 760 to 780 m/i is most 
effective in increasing the frequency of chromosomal aberrations in- 
duced by X-rays. In the past year it also was found that red radiant 
energy from 620 to 680 m/x, when applied subsequent to or simul- 
taneous with the far-red treatment, can nullify the far-red potentiat- 
ing effect. On the other hand, blue energy was ineffective in re- 
versing the potentiation induced by the far-red. This result implies 
that the red versus far-red reversible system found at the chromosomal 
level is analogous to that occurring in a wide variety of photo- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 93 

morphogenic responses, such as seed germination, seedling develop- 
ment, and flowering. 

In studying the effect of blue light on growth. Dr. Walter Shrop- 
shire, Jr., investigated the detailed action spectrum of the first 
positive tip curvature of the oat coleoptile, using a grating mono- 
chromator and irradiating the coleoptile at 10 m/i, steps from 350 to 
520 m/i,. From this action spectrum, it is concluded that the active 
pigment initiating the growth response is yellow, probably carotenoid 
in nature, with absorption maxima at 410-415, 440-445, and 470-475 
ni/i. A flavin photoreceptor appears unlikely, although a peak was 
observed in the near-ultraviolet at 370 mju,. The curvatures in the 
ultraviolet may be due to screening across the plant tissue by an in- 
active secondary pigment with an absorption at about 370 mfi. 

PUBLICATIONS 

WITHROW, R. B. ; Klein, W. H. ; and Elstad, V. Action spectra of photo- 
morphogenic induction and its photoinactivation. Plant Physiol., vol. 32, pp. 
453-462, 1957. 

Wolff, John B., and Peice, Leonard. Terminal steps of chlorophyll a biosyn- 
thesis in higher plants. Arch. Biochem. and Biophys., vol. 72, pp. 293-301, 
1957. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

Various staff members attended several national and international 
meetings to present results of research in progress. Early in the year. 
Dr. Robert B. Wi throw and Dr. Alice P. Wi throw attended the 
Gordon Conferences at Meriden, N.H., where Dr. Robert B. Withrow 
lectured on "Photocontrol of Growth by Red Light." At the annual 
meeting of the American Institute of Biological Sciences, Stanford, 
Calif., the following papers were presented : 

Stimulation of protochlorophyll synthesis in dark-grown bean leaves by irradia- 
tion with low energy, by J. B. Wolff, L. Price, and R. B. Withrow. 

Kinetics of the far-red inactivation of photomorphogenesis in the bean hook, by 
W. H. Klein, R. B. Withrow, and V. Elstad. 

Interaction of red and far-red radiant energy in modifying X-ray-induced 
chromatid aberrations in broad bean, by C. C. Moh and R. B. Withrow. 

The mode of action of light and temperature, by R. B. Withrow. 

Status of action spectrum and photoreceptor pigment in phototropism, by W. 
Shropshire, Jr. 

An International Symposium on Photoperiodism and Related Phe- 
nomena in Plants and Animals, sponsored by the National Research 
Council and the National Science Foundation, was organized under 
the chairmanship of Dr. Robert B. Withrow and held at Gatlinburg, 
Tenn. in October 1957. Papers entitled "Interaction of Growth Fac- 
tors with the Photoprocess in Seedling Growth," by W. H. Klein, and 
"A Kinetic Analysis of Photoperiodism," by R. B. Withrow, were 
presented at the symposium. 



94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Dr. Kobert B. Withrow, Chief of the Division of Kadiation and 
Organisms, died on April 8, 1958, of a heart attack at the University 
of Minnesota Hospital in Minneapolis, Minn. Dr. Withrow came to 
the Smithsonian Institution as Chief of the Division of Kadiation 
and Organisms in 1948. Prior to this, he had held positions at the 
University of Cinciimati, Purdue University, and the Argonne Na- 
tional Laboratory and had served as consultant to the U.S. Army 
Air Force for gravel culture and hydroponics installations. Dr. 
Withrow was internationally recognized for his contributions to the 
knowledge of light reactions in plants. 

Respectfully submitted. 

F. L. Whipple, Director. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the National Collection of Fine 

Arts 

Sirs : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi- 
ties of the National Collection of Fme Arts for the fiscal year ended 
June 30, 1958. 

SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION 

The 35th annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission was 
held in the Regents Eoom of the Smithsonian Building on Wednes- 
day, December 4, 1957. Members present were Paul Manship, chair- 
man; Eobert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; Leonard Carmichael, sec- 
retary ; Gilmore D. Clarke, David E, Fiiiley, Lloyd Goodrich, Walker 
Hancock, Bartlett Hayes, Charles Sawyer, Stow Wengenroth, and 
Archibald G. Wenley. Thomas M. Beggs, Director, National Col- 
lection of Fine Arts, was also present. 

A resolution on the death of Mahonri M. Young, a member of the 
Commission since 1933 to the time of his death November 2, 1957, 
was submitted and unanimously adopted. 

Dr. Finley, chairman of the executive committee, reported that 
this committee had met on October 30, 1957. The executive commit- 
tee, acting as a nominating committee, recommended the following 
actions, which were accepted by the Commission for recommendation 
to the Board of Regents : 

Reappointment of Robert Woods Bliss and George Hewitt Myers 
for the usual 4-year period. 

Election to the Commission of Henry P. Mcllhenny, to fill the 
vacancy caused by the resignation of John Nicholas Brown, and of 
Ogden Pleissner, to fill that caused by the death of Mahonri M. 
Young. 

Reelection of officers: Paul Manship, chairman; Robert Woods 
Bliss, vice chairman ; and Leonard Carmichael, secretary. 

Election of the executive committee: David E, Finley, chairman; 
Robert Woods Bliss, Archibald G. Wenley, and Gilmore D. Clarke, 
with Leonard Carmichael and Paul Manship, ex officio. 

Congressional bills and their effect upon the National Collection 
of Fine Arts and priorities in the Smithsonian building program 
were discussed. 

95 



96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Discussion of the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, its 
activities and relations with other similar services, concluded with 
a resolution commending the Chief of the Service, Mrs. John A. Pope, 
and her assistants for their fine work, noting especially the steady im- 
provement in the scope and quality of the Traveling Exhibition Serv- 
ice since its establishment 6 years ago. 

The Commission recommended acceptance of the following objects : 

Bronze, John Quincy Adams Ward (1830-1910), by Charles H. Niehaus (1855- 
1935) . Gift of the National Sculpture Society, New York City. 

Two oils. Fifth Lake, by Edgar Payue (1S81-1947), and Heavy Sea, by Paul 
Dougherty, N.A. (1877-1947). Henry Ward Ranger Bequest. 

Oil on wood, James Rumsey (1743-1792), by Benjamin West (1738-1820). 
Received from George A. Rumsey as a gift from Eugene A. Rumsey and brothers. 

Watercolor on ivory, William Bass, by undetermined artist. Gift of Mr. and 
Mrs. Arthur P. Drury. 

Wood paneling of Gothic library from "Miramar," Newport, R.I. Gift of Mrs. 
Alexander Hamilton Rice. 

Wood paneling of an 18th-century French Renaissance drawingroom from 
"Miramar," Newport, R.I. Gift of George D. Widener and Eleanor Widener 
Dixon. 

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND 

Two miniatures, watercolor on ivory, were acquired from the fund 
established through the bequest of the late Catherine Walden Myer 
as follows: 

112. William Parsons, 2d, of Gloucester, Massachusetts, by Washington 
Blanchard (ac. 1831-43 in Boston), from A. C. Walling, Brookline, Mass. 

113. Mordecai Manuel Noah (1785-1851), by John Wood Dodge (1807-1893), 
from the Estate of Ettie W. Noah Wilson, Washington, D.C. 

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS 

Two oils, Scene with Ruins (Tomb of Metellus, thought at the time 
of Richard Wilson to have been the Villa of Maecenas), said to have 
been by Richard Wilson (1714-1782), and Frances, Countess of Clare- 
mont, said to have been by Sir Joshua Reynolds (1723-1792), lent 
February 23, 1931, by the Estate of Henry Cleveland Perkins, v.'ere 
withdrawn February 24, 1958, by Robert R. Wallach, heir. 

LOANS RETURNED TO THE SMITHSONIAN 

Oil, Self Portrait, by George P. A, Healy, lent March 13, 1957, to 
the Corcoran Gallery of Art for an exhibition "Presidential Por- 
traits" was returned September 6, 1957. 

Two oils. President John Tyler, by George P. A. Healy, lent Janu- 
ary 25, 1957, to the Bureau of the Budget, and Beach of Bass Rocks, 
Gloucester, Mass., by Frank Knox Morton Rehn, lent April 26, 1957, 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 97 

to the Federal Communications Commission, were returned October 
25, 1957. 

Oil, The Sea, by Edward Moran, lent April 23, 1953, to the De- 
partment of State was returned November 6, 1957. 

Four oils, Kustic Dance, in the manner of Jean Antoine Watteau, 
lent June 11, 1953, to the United States Court of Military Appeals, 
and Moonrise, by Ralph Albert Blakelock, September Afternoon, by 
George Imiess, and Lago Maggiore, by William Stanley Haseltine, 
lent February 9, 1954, to the Department of State, were returned 
November 22, 1957. 

Oil, Dr. George Washington Carver, by Betsy Graves Reyneau, 
lent October 4, 1955, to the Department of Health, Education, and 
Welfare, was returned December 5, 1957. 

Two oils. Captain John Ericsson, by Arvid Nyholm, lent May 16, 
1957, to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, 
and Sunset, Navarro Ridge, California Coast, by Ralph Albert Blake- 
lock, lent February 9, 1954, to the Department of State, were returned 
December 12, 1957. 

An oil. Temple Mountain, by Chauncey Ryder, lent March 15, 1965, 
and a plaster bas relief, Charles Evans Hughes, by Harry L. Raul, 
lent January 24, 1956, to the Department of Justice, were returned 
February 3, 1958. 

Three oils, Niagara, by George Inness, The Torrent, by John Henry 
Twachtman, and Autumn at Arkville, by Alexander H. Wyant, lent 
March 14, 1957, to the Department of State were returned March 
5, 1958. 

Oil, Figure Group, by O. Lear, and wood engraving, Rockwell 
Studio, by Macowin Tuttle, together with two paintings from the 
Lending Collection lent October 4, 1955, to the Department of Health, 
Education, and Welfare, were returned March 13, 1958. 

Two oils, Male Wood Duck in a Forest Pool and Male Wood Duck, 
by Abbott H. Thayer, lent June 20, 1956, and June 26, 1956, respec- 
tively, to the Interstate Commerce Commission, were returned May 2, 
1958. 

Two oils, Major General Henry T. Allen and Major General Rob- 
ert Lee Bullard, by Seymour M. Stone, lent May 23, 1952, to tlie 
Department of Defense, were returned June 3, 1958. 

Oil, Furbelows, by Albert Sterner, lent April 26, 1957, to the Fed- 
eral Communications Commission, was recalled June 20, 1958. 

Oil, Evening Tide, California, by William Ritschel, lent February 
6, 1957, to the United States Court of Military Appeals, was recalled 
June 26, 1958. 



98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

ART WORKS LENT 

The following art works, oil paintings on canvas unless otherwise 
noted, were lent for varying periods : 

To Blair House, Washington, D.C. : 

November 22, 1957 Moonrise, by Ralph Albert Blakelock. (Re- 
turned March 13, 1958.) 
Lago Maggiore, by William Stanley Haseltine. 

(Returned March 13, 1958.) 
September Afternoon, by George Inness. (Re- 
turned March 13, 1958.) 
Rustic Dance, in the manner of Jean Antoine 
Watteau. 
To the Bureau of the Budget, Washington, D.C. : 

September 26, 1957 The Right Honorable Winston Churchill, by 

Hal Denton. 

October 25, 1957 Soldat de Crimge, by Harriet Blackstone. 

To Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa., for an exhibition, "American Classics 
of the 19th Century," October 17 through December 1, 1957, afterward to be 
circulated by the Museum Exhibitions Association through July 15, 1958: 

September 25, 1957 At Nature's Mirror, by Ralph Albert Blakelock. 

(Returned December 16, 1957.) 
Moonlight, by Albert P. Ryder. 
High Cliff, Coast of Maine, by Wiuslow Homer. 
(Courtesy of The National Gallery of Art.) 
To the Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C. : 

October 28, 1957 Woodrow Wilson, by John C. Johansen. (Re- 
turned November 12, 1957.) 
To the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, Washington, 
D.C: 

December 12, 1957 Mrs. John Brooks Henderson, by Jean Joseph 

Benjamin-Constant. 
A Neopolitan Lady, by Cesare Biseo (water- 
color). 
Landscape, by DeLancey Gill (watercolor). 
Roosevelt Haunts, Early Autumn, by Emile 

Walters. 
Unknown Lady, by Pierre Bouret (bronze bust). 
Fox Terrier and Rat, by Edward Kemeys (poly- 
chromed plaster). 

January 28, 1958 Figure of a Moor, by Ascenzi (watercolor). 

The Mirror, by Robert Reid, N.A. 
The Walk to Gethsemane, by Johannes A. Oertel. 
To the Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C. : 

March 28, 1958 The Sea, by Edward Moran. 

To the Department of Justice, Washington, D.C. : 

April 4, 1958 September Afternoon, by George Inness. 

April29, 1958 Temple Mountain, by Chauncey F. Ryder. 

May 7, 1958 October Breezes, by Albert Pike Lucas. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 99 

To the Meltzor Gallery, New York City (for color reproduction; prints to be 
used overseas by United States lufoimation Agency) : 

November 4, 1957 Man in White, by Cecilia Beaux. (Returned 

February 25, 1958.) 
To the Municipal Court for the District of Columbia, Washington, D.C. : 

September 18, 1957 Under Western Skies, by Carl Oscar Borg 

(etching). 
On the Kim, Grand Canyon, Arizona, by Carl 

Oscar Borg (etching). 
Back Door, by Charles W. Dahlgreen 

(etching). 
Western Pines, by Charles W. Dahlgreen 

(etching). 
U.S. Capitol Dome, by Frances Farrand Dodge 

(etching). 
Glacier National Park, View of Lake Josephine, 
by Eugenie Fish Glaman (etching). 

November 7, 1957 Depths of the Woods, by Lillian M. Gentb. 

(Returned December 6, 1957.) 
The Bathers, by Robert Reid, N.A. 
Round Hill Road, by John Henry Twachtman. 

November 27, 1957 Circe, by Frederick Stuart Church. 

A Breton Sunday, by Eugene Vail. 
Bell Foundry, Germany, by Walter Shirlaw. 
Street Shrine, by Jerome Myers. 
Song of the Sea, by William F. Halsall. 
To the United States Court of Military Appeals, Washington, D.C. : 

January 30, 1958 The Flume, Opalescent River, Adirondacks, by 

Alexander Wyant. 

June 26, 1958 Evening After a Shower, by Carleton Wiggins. 

To Princeton University, Princeton, N.J., to be hung in the Joseph Henry 
House : 

September 27, 1957 Joseph Henry, by Christian Schussele. 

To the House of Representatives, Honorable Richard B. Wigglesworth : 

November 6, 1957 Beach of Bass Rocks, Gloucester, Mass., by 

Frank Knox Morton Rehn, N.A. 
To the Department of State, Washington, D.C. : 

February 6, 1958 Canal in Venice, San Trovaso Quarter, by 

Robert F. Blum. 
The Continentals, by Frank Blackwell Mayer. 
To the District of Columbia Tax Court, Washington, D.C. ; 

December 6, 1957 Depths of the Woods, by Lillian M. Genth. 

To the United States National Museum, Division of Military History, Wash- 
ington, D.C. : 

May 26, 1958 German armor, in part 17th century, in part 

reproduction : 
1 complete suit. 

1 shield. 

2 helmets; a burgonet, and a cabasset. 
2 swords, one with scabbard. 

2 halberds. 



100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 58 

To the office of Vice President of tlie United States : 

December 30, 1957 Sunset, Navarro Ridge, California Coast, by 

Ralpti A. Blakelock. (Returned Marcli 13, 
1958.) 
Fifth Lake, by Edgar Payne. 

February 4, 1958 In the Plateau Country, by William Henry 

Holmes (watercolor). 
Shin-Au-Av-Tu-Weap, God Laud, Canyon of the 
Colorado, Utah, by Thomas Moran (water- 
color ) . ( Returned June 13, 1958. ) 
To the Walter Reed Army Medical Hospital, Washington, D.C. : 

June 2, 1958 Chester Arthur, by Lot Flannery (plaster 

bust). (Returned June 13, 1958.) 
To The White House, Washington, D.C. : 

July 29, 1957 Emergence, by Audrey Avinoff (watercolor). 

A Neopolitan Lady, by Cesare Biseo 

(watercolor). 
A Yellowstone Geyser, by Richard N. Brooke 

(wash drawing). 
Landscape, by DeLancey Gill (watercolor). 
In Monument Park, Colorado, by Walter Paris 

(watercolor). 
Landscape Sketch, by Walter Shirlaw (water- 
color and pencil). 
Roosevelt Haunts, Early Autumn, by Emile 

Walters. 
(All returned October 3, 1957.) 

September 12, 1957 Man in White, by Cecilia Beaux. (Recalled from 

White House October 25, 1957, and lent to 
United States Information Agency for repro- 
duction. Returned to White House Febru- 
ary 28, 1958.) 

January 20, 1958 Heavy Sea, by Paul Dougherty. 

March 5, 1958 Landscape Sketch, by J. Frank Currier 

(watercolor). 
Sketch on the Potomac, by Lorenzo James Hatch 

(watercolor). 
Spring Brook, Rock Creek Park, by Macowin 

Tuttle (wood engraving). 
Snowbound, by Macowin Tuttle (wood 

engraving). 
Captain John Ericsson, by Arvid Nyholm. 
A Tree Study, by Ross Sterling Turner 

(watercolor). 
Aurora Australis, by Frank W. Stokes. 

SMITHSONIAN LENDING COLLECTION 

On August 5, 1957, 29 paintings by Alice Pike Barney and 5 by other 
artists were received from Dayton Art Institute to which they had 
been lent. On December 6, 1957, a pastel portrait of Head of a Negro 
Boy, received from Col. James Perrine Barney, was added to the 
Lending Collection. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 101 

A watercolor, Street in the Pueblo of Zuni, New Mexico, by De- 
Lancey Gill, lent August 7, 1956, to the Bureau of the Budget, was re- 
turned October 26, 1957. 

Two oils by Edwin Scott, The Seine at Paris, lent May 24, 1956, 
and Ships at Anchor, Cherbourg, No. 1, lent February 18, 1953, to the 
United States District Court for the District of Columbia, were re- 
turned January 28, 1958. 

An oil, St. Germaine des Pres No. 1, by Edwin Scott, and a water- 
color. Musketeer on Guard, by A. Arrunutegin, lent October 4, 1955, 
to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, were returned 
March 13, 1958. 

The following paintings were lent for varying periods: 

To The White House, Washington, D.C. : 

September 12, 1957 Venice, by J. Hopkinson Smith (watercolor). 

Three Dogs, by John Morris. 
To the Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. : 

September 20, 1957 Porte St. Martin et Enterrement, by Edwin Scott. 

Ship at Anchor, Cherbourg, No. 1, by Edwin 

Scott. 
(Both returned September 26, 1957.) 
To the Bureau of the Budget, Washington, D.C. : 

September 26, 1957 The Honorable Theodore Roosevelt, by Sidney L. 

Smith (etching). 
To the Municipal Court for the District of Columbia, Washington, D.C. : 

November 27, 1957 Onteora, by Alice Pike Barney (pastel). 

In Southern France, by Alice Pike Barney 

(pastel). 
Vielles Maisons (Paris), by Edwin Scott. 
To Colonel James Perrine Barney, Princeton, N.J. : 

December 9, 1957 Head of a Negro Boy, by Alice Pike Barney 

(pastel). 
To the Department of State, Washington, D.C. : 

.January 2, 1958 Mirza Abul Fazl, by Alice Pike Barney (pastel). 

To the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, Washington, 
D.C: 

January 28, 1958 Laura in Arabian Costume, by Alice Pike Barney 

(pastel). 
To the Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C. : 

October 25, 1957 Street in the Pueblo of Zuni, New Mexico, by 

DeLancey Gill (watercolor). 
June 20, 1958 Musketeer on Guard, by A. Arrunutegin (water- 
color). 

ALICE PIKE BARNEY MEMORIAL FUND 

Additions to the principal during the year amounting to $1,275.01 
have increased the total invested sums in this fund to $38,365.53. 

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND 

No. 186, Quince Street, by W. Emerton Heitland (1893- ), 
watercolor, purchased by the Council of the National Academy of 



102 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 



Design April 4, 1955, was assigned by the Academy to Columbus 
Gallery of Fine Arts, Colmnbus, Ohio. 

According to a provision in the Ranger bequest that paintings pur- 
chased by the Council of the National Academy of Design from the 
fund provided by the Henry Ward Ranger Bequest, and assigned 
to American art institutions, may be claimed during the 5-year period 
beginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented, the fol- 
lowing two paintings were recalled for action of the Smithsonian Art 
Commission at its meeting December 4, 1957. 

No. 70. Fifth Lake, by Edgar Payne (1881-1947), assigned to the James Lee 
Memorial Academy of Arts (now the Memphis Academy of Arts), Memphis, 
Tenn., in 1929, was accepted to become a permanent accession. 

No. 110. Heavy Sea, by Paul Dougherty, N.A., (1877-1947), assigned to the 
William Rockhill Nelson Gallery of Art, Kansas City, Mo., in 1933, was accepted 
to become a permanent accession. 

The following paintings, purchased by the Council of the Na- 
tional Academy of Design smce the last report, have been assigned 
as follows : 



Title and Artist 

188. Midnight Procession, by Paul W. 

Zimmerman (1921- ). 

189. Tranquil Dignity, by Robert Bid- 

ner (1930- ). 

190. Cadiz at Dusk, by Dean Ellis 

(1922- ). 

191. Self Portrait, by Gerald Mofchum 

(1926- ). 

192. Houses Eastside (watercolor), by 

Ed Graves (1917- ). 

193. Ebbtide (watercolor), by Lenard 

Kester (1917- ). 

194. Circus Friends (watercolor), by 

A. Henry Nordhausen (1901- ). 

195. That Lonesome Road (water- 

color), by Roy M. Mason 
(1886- ). 

196. Foundation (watercolor), by Carl 

R. Kinscherf (1919- ). 

197. Portrait of an Old Man, by Sidney 

E. Dickinson (1890- ). 

198. Between Shifts (watercolor), by 

Peter Paul Dubaniewicz 
(1913- ). 

199. Gay Head (watercolor), by Amy 

Jones (1899- ). 

200. Peace Memorial, Hiroshima (wa- 

tercolor), by Mario Cooper 
(1905- ). 



Assignment 
Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, Tex. 

Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center, 

Colorado Springs, Colo. 
Colgate University, Hamilton, N. Y. 

University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. 

Oakland Art Museum, Oakland, Calif. 

Baltimore Museum of Art, Baltimore, 

Md. 
(Not yet assigned.) 

(Not yet assigned.) 



Penn State University, University Park, 

Pa. 
Dallas Museum of Fine Arts, Dallas, 

Tex. 
Berkshire Museum, Pittsfield, Mass. 



New Britain Institute Art Museum, 

New Britain, Conn. 
Butler Institute of American Art, 

Youngstown, Ohio. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



103 



Title and Artist 

201. Freeway (watercolor), by Rich- 

mond I. Kelsey (1905- ). 

202. Paisaje Espanol, # 2, 

by Paul Sample (1896- ). 

203. Springtime in Paris, 

by Irving Nuriok (1900- ). 
20i. Coastal Landscape, 

by Edward Betts (1920- ). 

205. Benares on the Ganges, 

by Maurice Sterne, N. A. 
(1877-1957). 

206. Sea and Wharf at Provincetown, 

by Eric Isenburger (1902- ). 

207. Nets, by George Harding 

(1882- ). 

208. North Shore Shipyard, 

by Cleade Enders (1925- ). 

209. Everyday is Washday (water- 

color), by Frederic Whitaker 
(1891- ). 

210. Philadelphia (watercolor), by 

by Hugh Gumpel (1926- ). 

211. The Horseless Carriage 

(watercolor), by John W. 
McCoy, II (1910- ). 



SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE 

Ninety-six exhibitions were circulated and shown in 264 museums 
and galleries during the past season, 95 in the United States and 1 
abroad, as follows: 

UNITED STATES 



Assignment 
California Palace of the Legion of 

Honor, San Francisco, Calif. 
Fort Worth Art Center, Fort Worth, 

Tex. 
Lyman Allyn Museum, New London, 

Conn. 
Butler Institute of American Art, 

Youngstown, Ohio. 
(Not yet assigned.) 



(Not yet assigned.) 

Crocker Art Gallery, Sacramento, 

Calif. 
Staten Island Institute of Art« and 

Sciences, New York City. 
( Not yet assigned. ) 



(Not yet assigned.) 

The Newark Museum, Newark, N.J. 



Paintings and Draioings 



American 
ings. 



Title 
Primitive 



Paint- 



California Painting 

Canadian Abstract Paintings- 
Paintings by Sir Winston 

Churchill. 
Paintings by Jan Cox 

Dutch Art 1945-1955 (includ- 
ing sculpture). 



A Frenchman in America, 
Charles- Alexandre Lesueur. 



Source 
Dr. Otto Kallir of the Galerie St. Etienne, New 

York ; artists, galleries, museums, and private 

collections. 
Municipal Art Center, Long Beach. 
National Gallery of Canada ; Embassy of Canada. 
Artist ; Hallmark Cards, Inc. ; British Embassy. 

Belgian Government ; private collectors ; Boston 

Museum of Fine Arts. 
Dr. W. Sandberg, Stedelijk Museum; E. L. de 

Wilde, Van Abbe Museum ; A. M. Hammacher, 

Kroller-Muller State Museum ; Embassy of the 

Netherlands. 
Museum of Le Havre ; American Embassy in 

Paris. 



492520—59 8 



104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Paintings and Drawings — Continued 

Title Source 

Indian Paintings from Raja- Sri Gopi Krishna Kanoria ; Arts Council of Great 
sthan. Britain; W. G. Archer, Victoria and Albert 

Museum. 
Kokoschka's Magic Flute Minneapolis Institute of Arts ; artist ; Embassy 

of Austria. 
Mexican Work by Cock van Cock van Gent ; Oatherwood Foundation. 
Gent. 

A. J. Miller Watercolors Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, Md. 

Second Pacific Coast Biennial- Santa Barbara Museum of Art ; artists, dealers, 

and private collectors. 

Plant Portraits University of Colorado Museum, Boulder. 

Seal Islands Cleveland Museum of Natural History. 

Paintings by Tessai Kokusai Bunka Shinkokai ; National Museum of 

Modern Art, Tokyo; Kioshi Kojin Temple in 

Takarazuka ; Rev. Bishop Kojo Sakamoto. 
Watercolor Today Toledo Museum of Art ; dealers, artists. 

Graphic Arts 

The American City in the 19th Prints and Photographs Division of the Li- 
Century, brary of Congress. 

American Printmakers University of Illinois, Urbana ; artists. 

Recent American Prints University of Illinois, Urbana; Lee Chesney; 

ai'tists. 
George Bellows Prints and National Gallery of Art; Boston Public Li- 
Drawings, brary; Library of Congress; Fogg Art 

Museum of Harvard University. 
A Century of City Views Royal Library of Stockholm ; Embassy of 

Sweden. 
Early Prints and Drawings of Robert B. Honeyman, Jr. ; Los Angeles County 

California. Museum. 

Contemporary German Prints- National Gallery of Art. 

Japanese Fish Prints Dr. Yoshio Hiyama; Kokusai Bunka Shinko- 
kai ; Japanese Embassy ; American Museum 

of Natural History. 
Japanese Woodblock Prints Un'ichi Hiratsuka ; American Embassy in 

Tokyo ; artists. 
Japanese Woodcuts I ("United Nations Educational, Scientific, and 

Cultural Organization ; Japanese National 



Japanese Woodcuts II . „ . . 

[ Commission 

Theatrical Posters of the Gay Prints and Photographs Division of the Library 

Nineties. of Congress. 

Birds by Emerson Tuttle Yale University; Mrs. Tuttle. 

Architecture 

100 Years of American Archi- American Institute of Architects; Immaculate 

tecture. Heart College in Los Angeles; architects. 

A Half Century of Architec- School of Architecture, Georgia Institute of 

tural Education. Technology. 

Architectural Photography II__ American Institute of Architects ; Architec- 
tural Photographers Association; George 
Eastman House. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 105 

Architecture — Continued 

Title Source 

Contemporary Danish. Archi- Prof. Kay Fisker, Royal Academy of Copen- 

tecture. hagen ; Embassy of Denmark. 

Contemporary Finnisli Arclii- Finnish American Society ; Association of 
tecture. Finnish Architects ; Embassy of Finland. 

Geiman Ajchitecture Today Bund Deutscher Architekten; German 

Embassy. 
Landscape Architecture Today- California Redwood Association. 
A Century of New England Norman C. Fletcher, architect; New England 
Architectui-e, State and Regional Chapters of American 

Institute of Architects. 
Contemporary Portuguese Ar- Portuguese National Secretariat for Informa- 
chitecture. tion and the National Syndicate of Archi- 

tects ; Embassy of Portugal. 
San Francisco Bay Region California Redwood Association; Northern 
Architecture. California Chapter, American Institute of 

Architects. 

Venetian Villas I fSoprintendenza ai Monumenti Medievali e 

Venetian Villas II \ Moderni, Venice; Embassy of Italy. 

Design 

American Craftsmen, 1957 — Robert von Neumann, University of Illinois, 

Urbana ; artists. 
Contemporary American Corning Museum of Glass. 

Glass. 
American Jewelry and Re- Rochester Memorial Art Gallery, Rochester, 

lated Objects 11. N.Y. ; artists ; Hickok Company. 

Recent "Work by Harry Ber- Knoll Associates ; artist. 

tola. 
National Ceramic Exhibition, Ceramic League of Miami ; Lowe Art Gallery 

Sixth Miami Annual. of the University of Miami ; designers. 

Design in Holland (formerly Department of Education, Art and Science in 
Dutch Arts and Crafts). The Hague; Netherlands Embassy. 

European Glass Design Geurg Jensen, Inc., New York ; designers. 

Two Finnish Craftsmen Waertsila-Arabia and other Finnish Manufac- 
( formerly Finnish Crafts). turers; Finnish- American Society, Helsinki; 

Finnish Embassy; artists. 

Fulbright Designers Institute of International Education; Museum 

of Contemporary Crafts in New York; Edgar 
J. Kaufmann, Jr. ; designers. 

Italian Arts and Crafts Compagnia Nazionale Artigiana, Rome; Italian 

Embassy. 
Midwest Designer-Craf tsmen_ Art Institute of Chicago ; artists. 

Nylon Rug Designs Dorothy Liebes ; duPont Company; designers. 

Religious Banners Teachers and students of Immaculate Heart 

College, Los Angeles. 
Twelve Scandinavian De- Georg Jensen, Inc., New York ; designers, 
signers. 

Swedish Textiles Today Royal Swedish Embassy ; Foreign Office, the 

Society of Industrial Design ; four leading 
manufacturers in Sweden; Mrs. Susanne 
Wasson-Tucker ; designers. 
Good Design in Switzerland.- Schweizer Werkbund ; Embassy of Switzerland. 



106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Books 

Title Source 

The Austrian Book Austrian Embassy ; publishers. 

German Art Books Association of German Booksellers; German 

Embassy. 

Art Books from Italy Cultural Division of the Italian Embassy ; 

publishers. 

Sixty Swedish Books Dr. Uno Willers, Royal Library of Stockholm; 

Embassy of Sweden. 

A World of Children's Books Washington Post and Times Herald Book Fair ; 

Embassies. 

Books for Young Scientists Washington Post and Times Herald 1957 

Children's Book Fair; Drs. Kerlan and Black- 
wood ; publishers. 

Oriental Art 

Burmese Embroideries James H. W. Thompson; Embassy of Burma. 

The Way of Chinese Landscape Dr. Fritz van Briessen. 

Painting. 
Chinese Ivories from the Col- Sir Victor Sassoon. 

lection of Sir Victor Sassoon. 

Japanese Dolls Japan Society, Inc. 

Six Japanese Painters Dr. Chisaburoh Yamada ; National Museum of 

Modern Art in Tokyo ; artists. 

Paintings by Jamini Roy Jamini Roy. 

Thai Painting James H. W. Thompson. 

Folk Art 

Early Ajnerican Woodcarving. Index of American Design, National Gallery 

of Art. 

Punch and Judy Index of American Design, National Gallery 

of Art. 

Swiss Peasant Art R. Hanhart, Director, Museum, St. Gall ; Pro 

Helvetia Foundation; Embassy of Switzer- 
land. 

Photography 

The Anatomy of Nature Andreas Feininger ; American Museum of Nat- 
ural History. 

Photographs of Angkor Wat Loke Wan Tho ; Right Honorable Malcolm 

MacDonald, High Commissioner for India. 

Image of America Library of Congress. 

Japan I by Werner Bischof Magnum Photos, Inc. 

Japan II by Werner Bischof Magnum Photos, Inc. 

Perceptions Mrs. Dody Warren Weston and Donald Ross; 

San Francisco Museum of Art; photog- 
raphers. 

Pup, Cub, and Kitten American Museum of Natural History; Wil- 
liam Vandivert. 

Photographs of Sarawak Raffles Museum ; Professor Gibson-Hill ; Hedda 

Morrison; USIS. 

Glimpses of Switzerland Pro Helvetia Foundation ; Embassy of Switzer- 
land. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 107 

Photography — Continued 

Title Source 

The World of Edward Weston_ Beaumont and Nancy Newhall ; National Park 

Service; California Academy of Sciences; 
Sierra Club. 

This is the American Earth Ansel Adams ; Nancy Newhall ; artists ; George 

Eastman House. 
Young Germans Behind the Dr. L. Fritz Gruber, "Photokina," Cologne; 
Camera. German Embassy. 

Anthropology 

Carl Bodmer Paints the Indian Karl Viktor, Prinz zu Wied ; German Em- 
Frontier, bassy. 

Swedish Rock Carvings Dr. Per Nystrom, Governor of the Province of 

Goteberg and Bohus ; Embassy of Sweden. 

Children's Exhibitions 

Argentine Children as Illustra- Editorial Guillermo Kraft Ltd., Buenos Aires; 

tors. Argentine Embassy. 

Art in Opera I — Tosca Metropolitan Opera Guild. 

Art in Opera II — Carmen Metropolitan Opera Guild. 

As I See Myself .Junior Arts and Activities ; Galerie St. Etienne. 

Children's Paintings from 45 Embassy of Denmark; Friendship Among 

Countries. Children and Youth Organizations. 

The Four Seasons Arts and Activities Magazine ; Galerie St. 

Etienne. 
Children's Paintings from United Nations Educational, Scientific, and 

Japan. Cultural Oi'gacization. 

Children's Paintings from Mo- Division of Youth and Sports of Ministry of 

rocco. Public Instruction, Rabat ; Embassy of 

Morocco. 

EmhiMtions Circulated Abroad 
American Folk Art. 

INFORMATION SERVICE AND STAFF ACTIVITIES 

In addition to the many requests for information received by mail 
and telephone, inquiries made in person at the office numbered 1,944. 
Examination was made of 153 works of art submitted for identifi- 
cation. 

Effective July 1, 1957, the Pell Collection and other miscellaneous 
ceramics were transferred to the United States National Museum 
collections to form the division of ceramics and glass of the newly 
established Museum of History and Technoloiry, and the curator of 
ceramics, formerly under the National Collection of Fine Arts, was 
made acting curator of the division. 

Special catalogs were published for the following 10 exhibitions: 
Sculpture by Paul Manship, a Eetrospective Exhibition, with an ap~ 



108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

preciation by Mr. Beggs, illustrated; Eecent American Prints; A 
Century of City Views; Cock van Gent; 2d Pacific Coast Biennial; 
Contemporary Portuguese Architecture; Fulbright Designers; In- 
dian Paintings from Rajasthan; Swedish Textiles Today; and Nylon 
Eug Designs. Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope, chief of the Smithsonian 
Traveling Exhibition Service, wrote special aclmowledgments for 
the last two and a foreword for Indian Paintings from Rajasthan; 
acknowledgments for the Fulbright Designers were written by Mrs. 
Jo Ann Sukel Lewis, research assistant. 

Mr. Beggs gave a talk on Regionalism in American Art to the Art 
League of Manatee County, Fla. ; spoke on Paintings of the Passion 
of Christ at the Rock Springs Congregational Church, Arlingt,on, 
Va. ; and gave a talk on Private Collections Publicly Maintained to 
the Arts Club of Washington. He served on the juries of two local 
shows. 

Mrs. Pope departed June 18 for Europe to see the exhibits of the 
United States and other countries at the Brussels International Fair 
and to visit England, Holland, France, Italy, Greece, and Switzerland 
to study new exhibitions and make selections of some for circulation 
here. 

Rowland Lyon served as juror for eight local shows. 

Thirty-three paintings in oil on canvas from the permanent col- 
lections were cleaned and revarnished, 2 were relined, and 48 picture 
frames were repaired and refijiished. One plaster cast and one bronze 
statue were cleaned and refinished. One painting by George Catlin 
was relined to repair a 22-inch tear in the canvas, for the United States 
National Museum. 

The 18-foot ceiling decoration, "Dawn," by Thomas W. Dewing, in 
the Gellatly Collection, was renovated by Henri G. Courtais and in- 
stalled in a specially constructed pavilion. In addition, Mr. Courtais 
restored "Aurora Borealis," by Frederick E. Church, "Madonna and 
Child with Apple," by an Old Flemish Master, and made minor re- 
pairs to "Entombment," by Rogier van der Weyden. 

Glenn J. Martin cleaned and removed old repaint on 11 paintings 
recently acquired. 

Twenty oil portraits of World War II leaders by Jolin C. Johansen 
and pastel drawings of the Civil War Veterans by Walter Beck have 
been removed from the second floor gallery and are to be installed at 
the south end of the foyer together with the miniature portraits in 
specially lighted cases. 

The oil portrait of President John Tyler, by G. P. A. Healy, was 
copied by C. Gregory Stapko in November 1957. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 109 

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS 

Thirteen special exhibitions were held during the year : 

July 11 through July 31, 1957. — Recent Works by Cock van Gent, sponsored by 
the Catherwood Foundation and circulated by the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibi- 
tion Service, consisting of 20 oils, 10 watercolors, and 20 drawings. A catalog 
was privately printed. 

August 27 through September 27, 1957. — The Sixth International Exhibition 
of Ceramic Art under the auspices of the Kiln Club of Washington, D.C., con- 
sisting of 223 pieces (140 by local artists, 49 by invited American artists, and 34 
lent by various Washington embassies and legations as representative of national 
artists of 10 countries). Craft demonstrations were given. A catalog was 
privately printed. 

October 20 through November 11, 1957. — The Twentieth Metropolitan State 
Art Contest, held under the auspices of the D.C. Chapter, American Artists 
Professional League, consisting of 278 paintings, sculpture, prints, ceramics, 
and metalcrafts. A catalog was privately printed. 

November 20 through December 15, 1957. — The Sixty-Fifth Annual Exhibition 
of the Society of Washington Artists, consisting of 82 paintings and 13 sculptures. 
A catalog was privately printed. 

January 26 through February 16, 1958. — The Twenty-second Exhibition of the 
Society of Washington Printmakers, consisting of 198 works in the graphic media. 
A catalog was privately printed. 

February 23 through March 16, 1958. — A Retrospective Exhibition of Sculptures 
by Paul Manship, consisting of 117 items. An illustrated catalog was printed. 

March 23 through April IS, 1958. — The Biennial Art Exhibition of the National 
League of American Pen Women, consisting of 202 paintings, sculpture, prints, 
ceramics, textiles, jewelry, and other craftswork. A catalog was privately 
printed. 

April 19 through May 11, 1958. — Swedish Textiles Today, sponsored by the 
Ambassador of Sweden and Madame Boheman and circulated by the Smith- 
sonian Traveling Exhibition Service, consisting of 113 textiles with additional 
display items including glass, silver, chairs, and stools. A catalog was privately 
printed. 

April 26 through May 18, 1958. — Exhibition of Paintings by Sir Winston 
Churchill, consisting of 35 paintings being circulated by the Smithsonian Trav- 
eling Exhibition Service and a portrait of Churchill by Lamar lent by the British 
Embassy. President Eisenhower previewed this exhibition on April 24, 1958. A 
catalog was privately printed. 

May 25 through June 13, 1958. — The 61st Annual National Exhibition of the 
Washington Watercolor Club, consisting of 109 watercolors, etchings, and draw- 
ings. A catalog was privately printed. 

May 25 through June IS, 1958.— The Twenty-fifth Annual Exhibition of the 
Miniature Painters, Sculptors, and Gravers Society of Washington, D.C, con- 
sisting of 172 examples. A catalog was privately printed. 

June 20 through July 13, 1958. — The Seventh Interservice Photography Contest, 
consisting of 89 photographs by members of the Armed Forces. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Thomas M. Beggs, Director. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary, /Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Freer Gallery of Art 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the 38th annual report on the Freer 
Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1958. 

THE COLLECTIONS 

Fourteen objects were added to the collections by purchase as 
follows : 

BRONZE 

57.22 Chinese, Late Chou dynasty (ca. 5th century B.C.)- Ceremonial vessel 
of the type hu; decorated with casting in relief in six main horizontal 
zones ; tiger-form handles. 0.446 s 0.266. 

GLASS 

57.19. Egyptian, 14th century (ca. A.D> 1360). Mosque lamp decorated with 

colored enamels and traces of gilding; inscription names the Madrasa 
of Sultan al-Na§ir Hasan b. Muhammad (Cairo) for which it was made. 
0.336 X 0.305 (Illustrated. ) 

IVORY 

57.25. Chinese, Sung dynasty (A.D. 960-1279). Standing figure of a Buddha 
with small Buddha on a lotus, and a dragon at the feet ; inscription of 
16 characters includes date, A.D. 1025. 0.457 x 0.130. 

JADE 

58.1 Chinese, Ch'ing dynasty (A.D. 1644-1912). Amber-colored agalmatolite 
carved in the round to represent a phoenix among clouds and plants ; 
signed Chou Pin. 0.115 x 0.050 x 0.023. 

M.-^NUSCRIPT 

57.16. Persian, Mongol period, Inju school (ca. A.D. 1330). First volume of 
Tarjama-i Tdrlkh-i Taharl; 193 folios, end missing ; 29 miniatures in 
colors and gold. (The Freer Gallery has most of volume II : 30.21 and 
47.19.) Average page: 0.422 x 0.287. 

METALWORK 

57.20. Persian, Sasanian period, 3d century A.D. Silver bowl, semispherical, 

fluted interior with gilded central medallion framing a bearded male 
bust in high relief. 0.210 x 0.062. 

PAINTING 

57.15. Chinese, Sung dynasty (A.D. 930-1279). "Three Worthies of Wu-chung," 
attributed to Li Kung-lin (late llth-early 12th century). HandscroU 
in ink and colors on silk; 4 inscriptions and 33 seals on painting, 1 
inscription and 2 seals on mount. 0.443 x 1.490. 

110 



Secretary's Report. 1958 



Plate 6 




57.19 




58.2 

Recent additions to the collections of the Freer Gallery of Art. 



Secretary's Report, 1958 



PLATE 7 




57.1b 

Recent addition to the collections of the Freer Gallery of Art. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 111 

57.17. Japanese, Ashikaga period (A.D. 1335-1568). Landscape with birds and 

flowers by Kano Motonobu (1476-1559) ; handscroll in ink on paper; 
one seal on painting. 0.2S0 x 4.830. 

POTTERY 

58.2 Chinese, Ming dynasty (A.D. 1368-1644). Large flask with unglazed 
back ; decorated in underglaze blue ; early 15th century. 0.475 x 0.418 x 
0.213. (Illustrated.) 

57.26. Japanese, Edo period (A.D. 1615-1868), Kutani ware. Large bottle- 
shaped vase decorated with peonies and formal patterns in red, yellow, 
and green overglaze enamels. 0.468 x 0.253. 

57.23. Mesopotamian, Abbasid period, 9th century. Flat dish with interlacing 

ribbon pattern and floral motifs in low linear relief; remains of gold 
lustered lead glaze. 0.028 x 0.280. 

57.24. Persian, Samanid period, 10th century. Deep bowl decorated in dark 

brown, brick red, and white slip with floral patterns and kufic script. 
0.112 X 0.393. 
57.12. Persian, Seljuq period, 12th century, Rayy. Large dish decorated with a 
young horseman on an arabesque ground; gold luster. 0.075 x 0.432. 

WOOD SCULPTURE 

57.18. Japanese, Kamakura period (A.D. 1186-1334). Figure of Bishamon-ten 

with the usual attributes and standing on a crouching dwarf ; painted 
and gilded, metal halo, glass eyes. H. 0.572 x "W. (base) 0.268. (Illus- 
trated.) 

Total number of accessions to date (including the above), 10,991. 

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTIONS 

Fifty Chinese and Japanese objects were restored, repaired, or 
remounted by T. Sugiura. In addition to this work on the collections, 
Mr. Sugiura completed fao for 18 Chinese books and repaired 11 
books for the library. 

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS 

Changes in exhibitions amounted to 1,468. This unusually large 
number is accounted for by the air-conditioning of the building which 
was completed in the faU of 1957, reinstallation of exhibitions, and 
redecoration of exhibition galleries. The changes were as follows: 

American art: 

Copper plates 17 

Etchings 18 

Lithographs 18 

Oil paintings 97 

Pastels 32 

Watercolors 28 

Chinese art: 

Bronze 210 

Gold 10 

Jade 116 

Marble 2 



112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1968 

Chinese art — Continued 

Metalwork 24 

Paintings 90 

Pottery 158 

Stone sculpture 18 

Christian art: 

Crystal - _ 2 

Glass 6 

Gold 18 

Manuscripts 18 

Paintings 8 

Stone sculpture 2 

Indian art: 

Bronze 2 

Manuscripts 12 

Paintings 30 

Stone sculpture 8 

Japanese art: 

Bronze 2 

Lacquer 21 

Paintings 174 

Pottery 69 

Wood sculpture 12 

Korean art: 

Bronze 2 

Pottery 36 

Near Eastern art: 

Bookbindings 10 

Crystal - 2 

Glass 8 

Manuscripts 16 

Metalwork 40 

Paintings 86 

Pottery 40 

Stone sculpture 2 

Tibetan art: 

Paintings 4 

LIBRARY 

The prime requirement of the library is service from and through 
books. It is well known that what has once been published is often 
forgotten and the rediscovery in the library may be a more difficult 
process than the first discovery. All the modern refinements of cata- 
loging and the invention of the fabulous fact-finding push-button ma- 
chines are directed toward making rediscovery easy, but in the last 
analysis the ultimate dependence is still upon human brains and skills. 

The expanding program of work and the many new projects being 
initiated find some of the subjects inadequately covered by the litera- 
ture in the Gallery library. Other libraries owning the required ma- 
terial have been most generous in furnishing it through interlibrary 
loan. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 113 

The 878 publications acquired during the year included purchases, 
gifts, and those sent in exchange for Freer publications. Unfortu- 
nately, the prices of books and periodicals continue to increase, and a 
good many institutions and societies that formerly sent their journals 
freely, in exchange or gratis, now find it necessary to charge for them 
in order to assure continuity of publication. 

Outstanding among the purchases last year were : Japan Biographi- 
cal Encyclopedia & Who^s Who, compiled by the Japan Biographical 
Kesearch Department, 1958, which is the first good Japanese biogra- 
phy in English since Papinot did his Historical and Geographical 
Dictionary in 1909 ; Gunsho ruisho [Shin ko^ , a collectanea of miscel- 
laneous writing, compiled by Kawamata Kyoichi, Tokyo, 1931-37, 24 
volumes with 3 supplements and index in 105 volumes ; Euei-ch^u-lai, 
a makimono painting illustrating T'ao Ch'ien's "Homecoming Ode." 
This is a copy of a part of the Freer painting 19.119, which is attrib- 
uted to Li Kung-lin. Professor Siren's notes and comments on the 
paintings are attached to the scroll. The Yunkang, the Buddhist 
Oaves . . . , which began publication in 1951, was completed with 16 
volumes in 36 folio volumes. 

The year's record of cataloging included a total of 1,879 entries of 
which 714 analytics were made, 451 titles of books and pamphlets were 
cataloged, and 48 titles were recataloged and reclassified. Once more 
the specialized nature of the library and its unique importance for the 
study of Oriental art are emphasized by the fact that less than 8 per- 
cent of the necessary cards were available as printed cards at the 
Library of Congress. This shows the original and difficult catalog- 
ing required in a specialized library. 

PUBLICATIONS 

One publication was issued by the Freer Gallery as follows : 

Ars Orientalis. The Arts of Islam and the East, vol. II. The Charles Lang 
Freer Centennial Volume, 637 pp., 224 pis., and text ills. (Smithsonian 
Publication 4298. Published jointly with the Department of Fine Arts, 
University of Michigan. Three members of the staff contributed to this 
Issue. ) 

Papers by staff members appeared in this and in outside publica- 
tions as follows : 

Cahill, James F. Review of "The Arts of the T'ang Dynasty." Catalog of an 
exhibition held at the Los Angeles County Museum, 1957. In The Journal 
of Asian Studies, vol. 17, No. 1, pp. 142-143, November 1957. 

Bttinghausen, Richard. Bibliographie der Islamischen Einbandkunst, 1871- 
1956, von Emil Gratzl, K. A. C. Creswell, und Richard Bttinghausen, In 
Ars Orientalis, vol, II, pp. 519-540, 1957. 

. Bibliography of the writings of K. A. C. Creswell. In Ars Orientalis, 

vol, II, pp. 50^512, 1957. 

, Bibliograph of the writings of Mehdi Bahrami, In Ars Orientalis, 



vol, II, pp. 625-627, 1957. 



114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

Ettinghausen, Richard. Early realism in Islamic art. In Studi Orient alistici 
in onore de Giorgio Levi Delia Vida, vol. I, pp. 250-273, 1957, Eome. 

. An exhibition of Islmnio art at the Ohio State Museum, July-August, 

1956. 26 pp., 19 figs., 1956 [i.e., 1957]. Ohio State University, Columbus. 

. Persian ascension miniatures of the fourteenth century. In Acca- 

demia Nazionale dei Lincei, XII Convegno "Volta," proniosso dalla dasse 
di scienze niorali, storiche e filolcgiche. Tema : Oriente e Occidente nel 
medioevo, pp. 360-383, 1957, Roma. 

: The "Wade Cup" in The Cleveland Jlnseum of Art, its origin and deco- 
rations. In Ars Orientalis, vol. II, pp. 327-366, 1957. 

. Review of "Fatih Albumima Bir Baki§. Sur I'Album du Conquerant," 

par M. S. ipsiroglu et S. Eyiiboglu. (1955, Istanbul Universitesi Bdebiyat 
Fakiiltesl Yayinlari : Maarif Basimevi, 15+153 pp.). In Ars Orientalis, vol. 
II, pp. 565-567, 1957. 

. Review of "Jews and Arabs: Their Contacts through the Ages," by 

S. D. Goitein. (New York, Schocken Books, 1955.) In Ars Orientalis, 
vol. II, pp. 591-594, 1957. 

. Review of "The Mosques of Egypt from 21 H. (641) to 1365 H. 

(1946) . . ." Published under the auspices of the Ministry of Waqfs, Giza 
(Orman), The Survey of Egypt, 1949, 2 vols. In Ars Orientalis, vol. II, 
pp. 544-545, 1957. 

. Review of "Vorderasiatische Kniipfteppiche aus alter Zeit," von Wil- 

helm von Bode nnd Ernst Kiihnel. (Braunschweig, Klinkhardt, und Bier- 
mann, 1955.) In Oriens, vol. 10, pp. 3G2-3G3, 1957. 

. Review of "Indian Painting for the British, 1770-1880," an essay 



by Mildred and W. G. Archer. (London, Oxford University Press, 1955.) 

In The Middle East Journal, p. 336, summer 1957. 
Gettens, Rutherford J. The composition of some ancient Persian and other 

Near Eastern silver objects, by Rutherford J. Gettens and Claude L. 

Waring. In Ars Orientalis, vol. II, pp. 83-90, 1957. 
. A monument of Byzantine wail i)ainting — the method of construc- 
tion. In Studies in Conservation, vol. Ill, No. 3, pp. 107-118, April 1958. 
. Physical properties of pigments. In Eanddook of Chemistry and 

Physics, 39th ed., pp. 1491-1494, 1957/1S5S. Chemical Rubber Publ. Co., 

Cleveland, Ohio. 
. Freer Gallery of Art, Smithsonian Institution. In TJie Identification of 

N on- Arti factual Archaeological Materials, National Academy of Sciences 

Publ. 565, pp. 32-34, 1957. 

Review of "Cairene Rugs and Others Technically Related, 15th-17th 



Century." In Studies in Conservation, vol. Ill, No. 3, p. 143, April 195S. 

Pope, John Alexander. Review of "Blue and White Porcelain: A Study of 
Form," by Cornelius Osgood. In Journal of the American Oriental So- 
ciety, vol. 77, No. 3, pp. 243-248, July-Sept. 1957. 

Stern, Harold P. Translation into English of the listing of azaleas of the Jap- 
anese Satsuki Society. In The Azalea Book, by Frederic P. Lee, pp. 223- 
232, 1958. D. Van Nostrand Co., New York. 

. Masterpieces of Korean art. Catalog of the Korean exhibition travel- 
ing in the United States, 1958. 

. Catalogue of the Hauge Collection, for the exhibition at China House, 



New York, April 1958. 
Ufiilton, Bertha M. Yesterday's history makes today's research. In D. 0. 
Libraries, vol. 28, pp. 2-4, October 1957. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 115 

Wenley, A. G. "A Breath of Spring," by Tsou Fu-lel. In Ars OrientaUa, vol, II, 

pp. 459-470, 1957. 
. A radiocarbon dating of a Tiinnanese image of Avalokite^vara. In 

Ars OrientaUs, vol. II, p. 508, 1957. 

REPRODUCTIONS 

The photographic laboratory made 8,432 items during the year 
as follows: 5,391 prints, 361 negatives, 1,716 color transparencies, and 
248 black-and-white slides. Total negatives on hand, 11,563; 3,000 
old slides were removed, and present inventory for lantern slides totals 
7,005; 354 reproductions in the round of Freer Gallery objects were 
sold. Slide loans were as follows: 765 black-and-white, 1,354 color. 

BUILDING 

The roof and exterior of the building appear to be in good con- 
dition; minor repairs were made and leaks in the skylights fixed 
from time to time. The daylights in each of the Gallery ceilings and 
the east and west corridors were replaced. 

The work of making exhibition cases for the galleries and new 
bookcases continued in the cabinet shop, and miscellaneous odd jobs 
related to storage, exhibition, restoration, crating, and maintenance 
of office and Gallery equipment were carried on as usual. Much time 
was given to various jobs arising as air-conditioning of the building 
was completed, such as a thorough cleaning of the attic and rein- 
stallation of the exhibition galleries. 

All plants, trees, and shrubs appear to be doing well. The trumpet- 
vine and trellis at either end of the south side were removed and the 
azalea bed was transplanted and rearranged. One Mahonia heali was 
planted in the southwest corner. One Cotoneaster salicifolia was re- 
placed. The four plots of grass were removed and resodded completely 
with zoysia grass. The grass, as well as all the plantings around the 
fountain, has made an excellent showing. Lantanas have been planted 
for the present season and are doing well. 

HERZFELD ARCHIVE 

On October 29, 1957, a gift of one notebook and three booklets of 
Arabic inscriptions to be added to the Herzf eld Archive was received 
from Prof. Dr. Adolf Grohmann. 

ATTENDANCE 

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4 : 30 every day except 
Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in the main 
entrance was 111,674. The highest monthly attendance was in April, 
14,539, and the lowest was in February, 3,517. 



116 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 



There were 2,253 visitors to the office for the following purposes : 

For general information 911 

To submit objects for examination 434 

To study in library 439 

To see staff members 180 

To take photographs in court or exhibition galleries 117 

To see building and installations 26 

To examine or borrow slides 23 

To sketch in galleries 10 

To see objects in storage : 

American art 26 

Armenian, Byzantine, Greek MSS., etc 2 

Christian art (Washington MSS.) 45 

Far Eastern jade, lacquer, wood, ivory, etc 23 

Far Eastern metalwork 32 

Far Eastern paintings 97 

Far Eastern pottery 61 

Near Eastern glass, bookbindings, etc 8 

Near Eastern metalwork 5 

Near Eastern paintings 20 

Near Eastern pottery 8 



AUDITORIUM 
The series of illustrated lectures was continued as foUows: 



1957 
October 8. 



Dr. John Alexander Pope, Assistant Director, Freer Gallery 
of Art. "Ceramic Finds in the Far East." Attendance, 
222. 

Dr. John D. Cooney, Curator of Egyptology, Brooklyn 
Museum. "Adventures in Collecting." Attendance, 108. 

Harold P. Stern, Associate in Japanese Art, Freer Gallery of 
Art. "The Korean Imperial Treasures." Attendance, 165. 

Dr. Jane Mahler, Associate Professor of Fine Arts, Columbia 
University. "The Glory of Medieval Burma." Attend- 
ance, 173. 

Dr. Charles K. Wilkinson, Curator, Ancient Near Eastern 
Art, Metropolitan Museum of Art. "Achaemenian Art: 
The Art of a Persian Empire." Attendance, 175. 

W. G. Archer, Keeper, Indian Section, Victoria and Albert 
Museum, London. "The Loves of Krishna." Attend- 
ance, 166. 

Outside organizations used the auditorium as follows : 

1957 
August 13. The United States Department of Agriculture held a meeting 

of 4-H Club representatives. Attendance, 220. 
November 19. The United States Department of Agriculture held a meeting 

of the Commodity Stabilization Service, Sugar Division. 

Attendance, 311. 
November 20. The United States Department of Agriculture held an all-day 

meeting of the Federal Extension Service. Attendance, 

255. 



November 5. 

1958 
January 7. 

February 11. 



March 11. 



April 15. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



117 



1958 

January 27. The United States Department of Agriculture held a meeting 

of the Rural Electrification Agency, Southern Region, 
Telephone Program. Attendance, 125. 

January 28. The United States Department of Agriculture held a meeting 

of the Secretary's Offices, Farmers Union Meeting. At- 
tendance, 151. 

Four other meetings were held in the Freer Gallery of Art building 
as follows : 



1957 
September 23. 

December 14. 

1958 
May 14. 

June 4. 



Board of Governors of the Washington Society of the Archaeo- 
logical Institute of America met in the library. Attend- 
ance, 7. 

Far Eastern Ceramic Group met in the library. Attendance, 
25. 

Board of Governors of the Washington Society of the Archaeo- 
logical Institute of America met in the library. At- 
tendance, 6. 

Through the Department of Commerce, National Bureau of 
Standards, it was arranged to have the Freer Gallery of 
Art open the evening of June 4, 8:30 to 10:30 P.M., to 
members of the Sugar Refinery Congress. Docent service 
was given by Harold P. Stern and James F. Cahill. At- 
tendance, 46. 

STAFF ACTIVITIES 



The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new 
accessions, of objects contemplated for purchase, and of objects sub- 
mitted for examination, as well as to individual research projects in 
the fields represented by the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Persian, 
Arabic, and Indian materials. Reports, oral and written, and ex- 
clusive of those made by the technical laboratory (listed below), 
were made on 4,049 objects as follows: For private individuals, 
2,538; for dealers, 1,067; for other museums, 444. In aU, 863 photo- 
graphs were examined, and 471 Oriental language inscriptions were 
translated for outside individuals and institutions. By request, 19 
groups totaling 453 persons met in the exhibition galleries for docent 
service by staff members. 

Three groups totaling 41 persons were given docent service by 
staff members in the storage rooms. 

Among the visitors were 84 distinguished foreign scholars or per- 
sons holding official positions in their own countries who came here 
under the auspices of the State Department to study museum ad- 
ministration and practices in this country. 

In the technical laboratory 130 objects from the Freer Collections 
and 69 from outside sources were examined. The following projects 
were begun : 



118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

1. For a period of four weeks in March-April, Mr. Gettens worked as research 
collaborator in the chemistry department of Brookhaven National Laboratory, 

Upton, L.I., N.Y., where he carried out analytical studies, mainly spectro- 
graphic, on ancient glass and ancient bronze. Some 30 specimens from 
inscribed ceremonial bronzes in the Freer Collection were analyzed 
spectrochemically. 

2. Chemical quantitative analysis by wet methods was started on samples of 
the same series of inscribed ceremonial bronzes. 

3. Systematic collection of data was begun on the technology of ancient copper 
and bronze in the Far East. 

The following projects were continued : 

1. X-ray diffraction analysis of corrosion products on ancient metals. 

2. Identification, by X-ray diffraction methods, of the jade objects in. the 
Freer Collection. 

3. Studies on the salt efflorescence on earthenware bodies. Carried on exchange 
of specimens and information with Museum of Natural History, Brussels. 

During the year, 8 written reports were made and 37 verbal reports 
given on objects examined in the technical laboratory. 

In August 1957 Mr. Wenley left for 2i/^ months to attend the Inter- 
national Congress of Orientalists in Mmiich where he delivered a paper 
on inscriptions on bronze vessels found at Lo-yang in 1929. During 
his trip to Europe he also studied museums and private collections in 
the following places: Briefly in France and Switzerland, 9 days in 
Munich, 5 days in Stockliolm, 7 days in London, 3 days each in 
Brussels, The Hague, and Athens, and 16 days in Italy. 

By invitation of the Government of Pakistan and the University 
of the Pan jab in Lahore, Dr. Ettinghausen left in December to attend 
the International Islamic Colloquium. As the initial speaker he de- 
livered a paper entitled "Comments on the Nature of Islamic Art 
and Its Symbols." His 4-month trip took him to the following places 
where he delivered lectures and studied museums and private collec- 
tions in connection with his research in Near Eastern art: 4 weeks 
in Pakistan, 4 weeks in India, 10 days in Iran, 8 days in Israel, 2i/^ 
weeks in Germany and England respectively, and 2 days in Ireland. 

On March 27, 1957, Mr. Stern left on a 9-moiith trip to the Far East 
to prepare the catalog for editing and supervise photographing of the 
objects and arrangements for packing and shipping of the Korean 
Government Loan Exhibition. ^Vliile in the Far East he delivered 
lectures and studied museums and private collections in the following 
places : 5 weeks in Seoul, 5 months in Japan, 2 weeks in Hong Kong, 
1 week in Formosa, 1 week in Honolulu, and 1 week in San Francisco 
and Seattle. 

By invitation the following lectures were given outside the Gallery 
by staff members (illustrated unless otherwise noted) : 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



119 



1957 
July 15. 

July 11. 

July 16. 

July 18. 
July 23. 

August 8. 

August 14. 

August 23. 
September 16. 
September 30. 
October 12. 
October 16. 

October 24. 
November 21. 
November 22. 
December 11. 
December 30. 

December 31. 



1958 
January 5. 



January 7. 



4.92520—59- 



Dr. Cahill, at the State Teachers College, New Paltz, N.Y., 

"Chinese and Japanese Art." Attendance, 32. 
Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of Washington, Seattle, 

"Historical Travel in Iran, Afghanistan, and India." At- 
tendance, 250. 
Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of Washington, Seattle, 

"Miniature Albums of the Mughal Emperors of India." 

Attendance, 220. 
Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Seattle Art Museum, "Master- 
pieces of Near Eastern Pottery." Attendance, 150. 
Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of British Columbia. 

Vancouver, B.C., "Historical Travel in Iran, Afghanistan, 

and India." Attendance, 85. 
Mr. Stern, at the American Cultural Center, Kyoto, Japan, 

"Some Japanese Objects in the Freer Gallery of Art." 

Attendance, 55. 
Mr. Stern, at the Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan, in Japanese, 

on "Japanese Art in the Freer Gallery of Art." Attendance, 

50. 
Mr. Stern, in Osaka, Japan, in Japanese, on "Japanese Art in 

the Freer Gallery of Art." Attendance, 20. 
Mr. Stern in Nara, Japan, in Japanese, on "Japanese Art in 

the Freer Gallery of Art." Attendance, 25. 
Dr. Cahill, at All Souls Unitarian Church, Washington, D.C., 

on "Chinese Painting." Attendance, 25. 
Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Phillips Gallery, Washington, D.C., 

"Iran, the Country and Its Art." Attendance, 41. 
Mr. Stern, in Tokyo, Japan, at the National Museum, in 

Japanese, "Japanese Art in the Freer Gallery of Art." 

Attendance. 50. 
Dr. Pope, in New York, to the Chinese Art Society, "Pottery 

Hunting in the Far East." Attendance, 70. 
Dr. Cahill, in New York, at the Metropolitan Museum of 

Art, "Album Painting in Japan." Attendance, 45. 
Dr. Pope, in Baltimore, at the Baltimore Museum of Art, 

"Asiatic Collections of Chinese Art." Attendance, 135. 
Dr. Pope, at the Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., 

"Asiatic Collections of Chinese Art." Attendance, 100. 
Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of the Panjab, Lahore, 

Pakistan, delivered official message of greetings of the 

Smithsonian Institution to the Vice Chancellor of the 

University. Attendance, 1,500. 
Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of the Panjab, Lahore, 

delivered opening speech, "Comments on the Nature of 

Islamic Art and its Symbols." Attendance, 650. 

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of the Panjab, Lahore, 
presided at a meeting of the International Islamic Collo- 
quium. Attendance, 30. 
Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of the Panjab, Lahore, 
before a meeting of the International Islamic Colloquium, 
"Miniature Albums of the Mughal Emperors." Attend- 
ance, 30, 
—9 



120 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 



1958 

January 11. Dr. Ettinghausen, in Peshawar, Pakistan, a brief address to 

the Board of Historical Research. 

January 12. Dr. Ettinghausen, at Peshawar University, Pakistan, "Mug- 

hal Miniatures." Attendance, 150. 

January 15. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of Dacca, East Pakistan, 

Department of Arabic Studies, "Mughal Miniatures." At- 
tendance, 40. 

January 16. Mr. Wenley addressed the annual dinner of the Smithsonian 

Board of Regents, "Far Eastern Collections in the Freer 
Gallery of Art Compared with Those Abroad." Attend- 
ance, 26. 

January 16. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of Dacca, East Pakistan, 

"Pottery from Muslim Countries." Attendance, 55. 

January 17. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the University of Dacca, East Pakistan, 

Department of Islamic Civilization, "The Paintings of 
Behzad." Attendance, 75. 

January 20. Mr. Gettens, at the Sidwell Friends School, Washington, 

D.C., "Source of Paint Material of the Ancients." Attend- 
ance, 20. 

January 21. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the United States Information Service, 

Chittagong, East Pakistan, "Muslim Art and Painting." 
Attendance, 150. 

January 24. Dr. Ettinghausen, in Calcutta, India, at the home of Chester 

R. Chartrand, Public Affairs Officer of the Consulate Gen- 
eral, "Mughal Paintings." Attendance, 25. 

January 26. Dr. Ettinghausen, in Calcutta, India, at the home of Robert 

B. Jaffie, Cultural AflFairs Officer, "Mughal Paintings." 
Attendance, 15. 

February 1. Dr. Ettinghausen, in Banaras, India, under the auspices of the 

Department of Indology and the Bharat Kala Bhawan 
(Museum of Indian Art) of the Banaras Hindu University, 
"Mughal Paintings in the Freer Gallery of Art." Attend- 
ance, 40. 

February 7. Mr. Gettens, in New York at the Brooklyn Museum, "Optical 

Aids in the Examination of Paintings." Attendance, 25. 

February 13. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the National Gallery of Modern Art, 

New Delhi, India, "Mughal Miniatures in the Freer Gallery 
of Art." Attendance, 40. 

February 19. Dr. Ettinghausen at the Bhulabhai Memorial Institute, Bom- 

bay, India, "The Near Eastern Collection of the Freer 
Gallery of Art." Attendance, 50. 

February 20. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Bhulabhai Memorial Institute, 

Bombay, India, "Mughal Miniatures in the Freer Gallery 
of Art." Attendance, 110. 

February 21 Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Bhulabhai Memorial Institute, 

Bombay, India, "Near Eastern Potteries in the Freer 
Gallery of Art." Attendance, 45. 

March 5. Dr. Ettinghausen, in Tehran, Iran, to the Theological Faculty 

of the University of Tehran, "Persian Elements in Mughal 
Painting." Attendance, 400. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 121 

1958 

March 11. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Hebrew University, Jerusalem, 

Israel, "Characteristic Features of Mughal Paintings." 
Attendance, 45. 

April 1. Dr. Pope, in New York City, to members of the American 

Oriental Society, "Chinese Remains in Sarawok." Attend- 
ance, 75. 

April 3. Mr. Stern, at China House, New York, "Japanese Painting 

as Represented by the Hauge Collection." Attendance, 40. 

May 1. Mrs. Usilton, in Charleston, S.C., to the Librarians' Section 

of the American Association of Museums, "What's New 
in Museum Libraries." Attendance, 30. 

May 2. Mr. Gettens, in Charleston, S.C., to the Art Technical 

Section of the American Association of Museums, "Examin- 
ing Tables." Attendance, 50. 

May 2. Miss Elisabeth West, in Charleston, S.C, to the Art Tech- 

nical Section of the American Association of Museums, 
"Cross-Sections of Layered structures in Polyester Resin." 
Attendance, 50. 

May 14. Mr. Gettens, to the Abracadabra Club, Bethesda, Md., 

"Adventure in Color." Attendance, 20. 

Mrs. Usilton attended the two sessions of the Regional Catalogers 
and Classifiers meeting of the American Libraries Association at the 
Folger Library, Washington, D.C. Members of the staff traveled 
outside Washington on official business as follows: 

1957 
July 1- Mr. Stern in the Far East. 

December 23. 

July 1-3. Mr. Gettens, in Boston, visited the Museum of Fine Arts, 

where he examined 10 Far Eastern objects; and the 
Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, where he examined 
1 Far Eastern object; and in Cambridge, Mass., visited 
the Fogg Art Museum where he examined 1 Far Eastern 
object. 
August 26- Mr. Wenley attended meetings of the International Con- 

November 12. gress of Orientalists in Munich, Germany. 

September 13. Miss Ehsabeth West, in Baltimore, visited the Walters 

Art Gallery where she examined 96 pieces of jade and 
sampled 17. 
September 30- Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, visited various dealers 

October 4. and museums and examined 155 Near Eastern objects. 

October 15. Dr. Ettinghausen, in Baltimore, visited the Baltimore 

Museum of Art, where he examined 3 pieces of Turkish 
pottery, 4 pieces of Persian pottery, and 1 piece of 
Hispano-Moresque pottery. 
October 24-26. Dr. Pope, in New York, visited various dealers and museums 

and examined 80 Japanese prints and 35 miscellaneous 
Far Eastern objects. 



122 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 



1957 
November 1-19. 



November 6-9. 
November 7-12. 



November 17-20. 



November 19. 



November 20-24. 



November 25- 
December 9. 



December 11. 
December 16-17. 



Mr. Gettens, in Chicago, visited the Art Institute of 
Chicago; in Denver, Colo., visited the Chappelle House, 
the Schlier Gallery, and the Denver Art Museum; in 
Boulder, Colo., examined Mayan pottery sherds belong- 
ing to Miss Anna Shepard; in Salt Lake City, Utah, 
visited the Utah Musuem of Fine Arts; in San Francisco, 
saw the collection of Neil E. Compton; also visited the 
E. B. Crocker Art Gallery in Sacramento, Calif., Sutters 
Museum, Sutters Fort, Calif.; the Portland Art Museum, 
Portland, Oreg. ; the Seattle Art Museum, Seattle, Wash.; 
and the Minneapolis Institute of Art, Minneapohs, 
Minn. Examined 106 objects in addition to general 
collections. 

Mr. Gettens and Dr. Cahill, as delegates, attended meetings 
of the UNESCO Conference in San Francisco. 

Dr. Cahill, in San Francisco, examined 30 Chinese and 
Japanese objects belonging to S. Tsuchiya, a dealer. In 
Kansas City, Mo., examined 50 Chinese paintings at 
the William Rockhill Nelson Gallery of Art; in Cleve- 
land, Ohio, examined 25 Chinese and 5 Japanese paintings 
at the Cleveland Museum of Art. 

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Boston and Cambridge, Mass., ex- 
amined 20 Arabic and Persian MSS. in the Houghton 
Library, 60 Persian and Indian miniatures in the Fogg 
Art Museum, and 1 Coptic woodcarving with bone inlay 
at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. 

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Boston, attended the annual meeting 
of the Trustees of "The American Research Center in 
Egypt" at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts. 

Dr. Cahill, in New York, examined 8 Far Eastern paintings 
at the Metropohtan Museum of Art; 30 Indian and Far 
Eastern paintings belonging to a private collector; and 
119 paintings in the hands of five dealers; he also attended 
an exibition of modern Chinese paintings at the Mi 
Chou Gallery. 

Dr. Pope, in London, England, attended the Exhibition, 
"Arts of the Ming Dynasty," sponsored by the Arts 
Council of Great Britain and the Oriental Ceramic 
Society; also saw collections belonging to the follow- 
ing: Mrs. Alfred Clark, Percival David Foundation, the 
British Museum, J. M. Addis, Gerald Reitlinger, F. 
Brodie Lodge, G. Gompertz, R. F. A. Riesco, Sir Harry 
Garner, and R, H. R. Palmer. 

Dr. Ettinghausen left on a trip taking him to Lahore, 
Pakistan, to attend the International Islamic Colloquium. 

Mr. Wenley attended the meeting of the Freer Fund 
Committee at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
Mich. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



123 



Miss Elisabeth West and Mr. Gettens, in Baltimore, ex- 
amined 2 European oil paintings and 1 Etruscan bronze 
pitcher at the Walters Art Gallery; they then attended 
the exhibition of Near Eastern Bookbindings at the 
Baltimore Museum of Art. 

Mr. Stern attended the opening of the Korean Exhibition 
at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. New York, 

Mr. Gettens, in New York, called at Brookhaven National 
Laboratory. Upton, L I. to discuss technical matters 
with member? of their staff 

Mr. Wenley and Dr Pope, in Cleveland, Ohio, attended the 
official opening of the new wing of the Cle^ eland Museum 
of A rt. 

Mr. Gettens • isited the Brook ha^en National T.aborator}', 
I'pton. L. 1.. where he acted as research collaborator 
in the depart 'nent of chemistry with Dr. E. V. Sayre, 
working on spectrochemicai analysis of specimens of 
glass from the Ray Winfield Smith Collection, as well as 
on specimoii.« from early Chinese bionzes in the Freer 
Collection. 

Mr Stern, in .New York, attended the official opening of 
the Hauge Collection at China House and examined 22 
objects of Far Eastern art at dealers 

Mr. Wenley, in New York, attended meetings of the 
American Oriental Society, including meetings of the 
Executive Committee where he presented the annual 
report of the Louise Wallace Hackney Scholarship 
Committee Also attended meetings of the Association 
of Asian Studies. Examined 31 various Far Eastern 
objects belonging to five different dealers. 

Dr. Pope in New York, attended meetings of the American 
Oriental Society. 

Mr. Wenley, in Ann Arbor, Mich., attended the opening 
of an exhibition of Mexican Art from Pre-Columbian to 
Modern Times. 

Mrs Lnor O West, in New York, attended meetings of 
Museum Store Managers at the Metropolitan Museum 
of Art and the Brooklyn Museum. 

Mr. Wenley. in Winterthur. Del., attended meetings of the 
Association of Art Museum Directors. 

Mr. Wenley and Dr. Pope, in Boston, attended the meeting 
of the Council of the Far Eastern Ceramic Group, and the 
general meeting of the society; Dr. Pope presided at 
both meetings. Later, they went to the home of Paul 
Bernat. where they examined approximately 90 Far 
Eastern objects. 

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, visited the Metropolitan 
Museum of Art. where he examined 8 Near Eastern 
carpet fragments; the American Numismatic Society, 
where he examined 40 Mesopotamian copper coins; and 
four dealers, where he examined 227 miscellaneous Near 
Eastern objects. 



124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

Members of the staff held honorary posts, received recognition, and 
undertook additional duties outside the Gallery as follows: 

Mr. Wenley: Appointed member of the Visiting Committee, Dumbarton 

Oaks Research Library and Collection, Washington, D. C, 
for 1 year from July 1, 1957. 

Research Professor of Oriental Art, Department of Fine 
Arts, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich., for 1 
year from July 1, 1957. 

President, Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C. 

Served on Special Advisory Committee of the Cultural 
Development Committee to formulate plans for a Festival 
of the Arts and Music to be held in Washington, D.C., in 
1959 or 1960. 

Appointed Chairman of the Time of Year Selection Sub- 
committee. 

Elected Trustee, Japan-American Society, 
Dr. Pope: Member, Visiting Committee, Board of Overseers of Harvard 

College to the Department of Far Eastern Civilizations. 

Member, Editorial Board, Archives of the Chinese Art Society 
of America. 

President, Far Eastern Ceramic Group 

Member, House Committee, Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C. 

Member, Committee on Asia, American Council of Learned 
Societies. 

Chairman of Committee to organize and supervise the Annual 
Birthday Reception and Dinner of Cosmos Club. 

Appeared on television program out of Philadelphia, WCAU, 
on November 19, 1957, University Museum Show, "What 
in the W^orld." 
Dr. Ettinghausen: Member, Editorial Board, The Art Bulletin. 

Trustee, American Research Center in Egypt. 

Honorary member of the Board of Historical Research, 
Peshawar, Pakistan. 

Member, Board of Governors, Washington Society of Archae- 
ological Institute of America, Washington Branch. 

Appointment extended. Research Professor of Islamic Art, 
Department of Fine Arts, University of Michigan. 

"Exhibition of Iranian Photographs," at the Middle East 
Institute, Washington, D.C. Voice of America recorded 
an interview in Persian with Dr. Ettinghausen who made 
comments about the exhibition. 

Gave a short address at Wildenstein Galleries, New York, at 
the opening of an exhibition of Hossein Behzad's illustra- 
tions to Omar Khayyam's Rubaiyat. 
Mr. Gettens: Chairman, Art Committee, Cosmos Club, W^ashington, D. C. 

Chairman, American Committee for International Institute 
for the Conservation of Museum Objects. 

Ordinary Member, Council of the International Institute for 
the Conservation of Museum Objects, National Gallery, 
London, England. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



125 



Mr. Stern: As representative of the United States Government and 

American museums, cataloged selected objects of the 
Korean Government Exhibition, and acted as liaison in 
arranging for packing and shipping to the United States. 
Represented the Freer Gallery of Art in the 60th Anniversary 
Celebration of the Kyoto National Museum, Kyoto, .Japan. 
Organized and supervised the installation of the Loan Exhibi- 
tion from the collections of Mr. and Mrs. Osborne Hauge 
and Mr. Victor Hauge, at the China House, New York, 
April 1-30, 1958. 
Read and commented on the doctoral dissertation of Won- 
Yong Kim, "Studies on Silla Pottery," for the Department 
of Fine Arts, New York University, New York. 
Dr. Cahill: Gave a course of illustrated lectures on Chinese and Japanese 

art at American University, Washington, D.C-, February- 
June, 1958. Attendance, 17 each lecture. 
Mrs. Usilton: Critic of the schedules for TOO's (Fine Arts) of the Dewey 

Decimal Classification, 16th edition. 
Contributor to IIC Abstracts. 



In 1957 the Freer Gallery for the first time took part in the 
Wellesley-Vassar Washington Summer Intern Program under which 
a group of specially qualified students get actual experience working 
as volunteers in various Government offices. Miss Ellen McCance, a 
fine-arts major from Vassar College, worked under the immediate 
supervision of the librarian of the Freer Gallery. During the 8- week 
period she helped on a variety of projects, thus gaining a well-rounded 
idea of the general functions of the organization and the different 
phases of Gallery activity, and at the same time makmg a useful 
contribution to the work of the Gallery. 

Respectfully submitted. 

A. G. Wenley, Director. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael., 

Secretary ., Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the National Air Museum 

SiK : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi- 
ties of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended June 30, 
1958: 

Of outstanding importance to the National Air Museum during the 
year was the progress made in the matter of a site for a new building. 
On June 26, 1958, the United States Senate passed S. 1985, a bill in- 
troduced by Senator Clinton P. Anderson, authorizing the prepara- 
tion of plans for the construction of a suitable building for a National 
Air Museum to be located on the site bounded by Fourth and Seventh 
Streets, SW., Independence x\venue, and Jefferson Drive. At the 
close of the year the bill had gone to the House of Representatives 
and had been referred to the Committee on Public Works. The 
passage of this bill by the Senate marks a long step toward the 
realization of many years' efforts in the matter of adequate housing 
for the National Air Museum. 

Many important accessions were received. Notable among these 
were the General William Mitchell statue and a Vanguard rocket. 
These are on exhibition in the Arts and Industries Building. 

Progress was made in the improvement and preparation of storage 
and restoration facilities. These facilities take on increasing impor- 
tance as the planning of the exhibit for the new building progresses. 

A new and improved exhibit in the Aircraft Building is in the 
planning stage. In addition to providing a much-needed change in 
this old exhibition space, it will serve as useful experience in plan- 
ning the aeronautical exhibits for the new building. 

The Museum's information service continued as a growing and 
active function during the year. Technical, historical, and biographi- 
cal information pertaining to the development of aviation was fur- 
nished by the staff for Government agencies, universities, research 
workers, authors, teachers, students, and the inquiring public. The 
reference files, photographic files, and library of the Museum con- 
tinued to expand in volume and usefulness with the acquisition of 
additional data and materials from many sources. 

Two Honorary Fellows of the National Air Museum, Capt. John J. 
Ide, USNR, and Frederick Crawford, were appointed during the 
year. A Director of the National Air Museum, Philip S. Hopkins, 
was appointed and assumed his duties in February 1958. An associate 
curator, Louis S. Casey, was also added to the staff. 

126 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 127 

ADVISORY BOARD 

One meeting of the Advisory Board was held, on October 11, 1957. 
The Secretary introduced the new member of the Board, Rear Adm. 
R. E. Dixon, USN, who succeeded Rear Adm. James S. Russell, whose 
appointment terminated July 12, 1957. The other members. Dr. 
Leonard Carmichael, chairman; Maj. Gen. Reuben C. Hood, Jr., 
representing the Chief of Staff, Department of the Air Force; and 
the Presidentially appointed citizen members, Lt. Gen. James H. 
Doolittle, USAF (Ret.), and Grover Loening, continued their service 
on the Board. 

At this meeting the Board recommended the appointment of the 
Director and Honorary Fellows above named, and also recommended 
the appointment of Paul E. Garber as head curator and historian of 
the National Air Museum. 

The Board reaffirmed its approval of the Mall site for the National 
Air Museum Building. 

SPECIAL EVENTS 

Several notable presentation ceremonies took place during the year. 
The outstanding one was the unveiling and acceptance of the Gen. 
William Mitchell statue, sculptured by Bruce Moore, and the gift of 
the late George H. Stephenson. The statue was unveiled on Decem- 
ber 17, 1957, by William Mitchell, Jr., in the presence of members 
of the Mitchell family, the Stephenson family, and some 200 distin- 
guished guests. 

Other special ceremonies during the year included the presentation 
of a "Falcon" guided missile by the Honorable Barry Goldwater, 
United States Senator from Arizona, on behalf of the Hughes Air- 
craft Co., on April 15, 1958 ; an Air Mail Medal of Honor, presented 
by Deputy Postmaster General Edson G. Sessions on May 14, 1958; 
and a "Vanguard" rocket and satellite, presented by Rear Adm. liaw- 
son Bennett of the United States Navy, on May 26, 1958. 

At these presentation ceremonies, Dr. Carmichael accepted the gifts 
for the Musuem with appropriate remarks. 

The National Air Museum was well represented on numerous oc- 
casions throughout the year by the head curator and historian, Paul 
E. Garber. Mr. Garber's activities included the following : 

The Early Birds, an organization of those who flew solo during 
the first 13 years of powered heavier-than-air flight (prior to Decem- 
ber 17, 1916) held their annual reunion in Washington July 27-29, 
1957. They enjoyed a tour of the aeronautical exhibits conducted by 
Mr. Garber, who is secretary of this organization. Their interest 
was increased not only because of their personal association with the 



128 ANNTTAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

beginnings of aviation but also because this Museum has been desig- 
nated by them as depository for their archives and historic specimens. 

The Institute of Aeronautical Sciences held a joint meeting with the 
Navy at San Diego, August 1 to 16, where, at the Institute Building, 
a display of aircraft, scale models, photographs, and paintings illus- 
trated the growth of naval aviation from its origin in 1911 to the 
present. In the opinion of many persons who attended, this was the 
most complete liistorical display of this type ever assembled. The 
organizers acknowledged the important assistance extended by this 
Museum which provided most of the scale models. During this meet- 
ing Mr. Garber lectured on "Glenn Curtiss, Founder of Naval Avia- 
tion," illustrating his talk with slides, a number of which were rare 
views of the aircraft developed by this famous air pioneer. 

On May 13, the District of Columbia Chapter of the Institute of 
Aeronautical Sciences heard a lecture by the head curator on "The 
History of Aeronautics." This was a condensation of a four-part 
series delivered by him at monthly meetings of the Institute chapter 
formed of students in aeronautical engineering at the Catholic Uni- 
versity in Washington. 

The association of Air Mail Pioneers, composed of those who op- 
erated the governmental postal aviation system from its beginning in 
1918 until 1927 when the routes were converted into commercial air- 
lines, held the annual meeting of the Eastern Division in Washington, 
October 10-11. The Museum cooperated with preparation of a special 
display of airmail relics, scale models and photographs of airmail 
planes, and related material. A conducted tour of the collections 
and a talk on Max Miller, the first postal aviator in the departmental 
service, were given by Mr. Garber, who was recently president of the 
District of Columbia chapter of this organization. On May 15, 1958, 
this chapter headed the celebration of the fortieth anniversary of 
the first continuously scheduled public service airmail route. The 
head curator assisted with arrangements for a flight over the original 
Washington-to-New York route in an airplane of 1918 piloted by Leon 
Smith, one of the original group of airmail pilots ; and with the prep- 
aration of a bronze plaque which was unveiled on the anniversary date 
to mark the field from which the inaugural flight had started. Another 
feature of this airmail anniversary was a ceremony at the National 
Aviation Club when an example of the Air Mail Flyers' Medal of 
Honor was added to the Musemn collections. Authorized by act of 
Congress in 1931, it has been awarded only 10 times, "for distinguished 
service as an airmail pilot." 

Cooperating with the Armed Forces, Mr. Garber lectured on the 
history of aeronautics to the Non-Commissioned Officers' School at 
the Air Force Base in Orlando, Fla., and gave talks on various phases 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 129 

of aviation to the Air Force Flying Club at Andrews Air Force Base 
in Maryland, the Army Flying Club at Fort Myer, Va., and to several 
units of reserve officers and the Civil Air Patrol. At the request of 
the Navy Department, the talk on Glenn Curtiss was repeated before 
the combined Naval Reserve companies of the Washington area. Con- 
ducted tours of the aeronautical exhibits were provided for a group 
of naval enlisted men selected for their proficiency in aviation, and 
for units of the Eeserve Officers Training Corps. A talk on Brig. 
Gen. William Mitchell and a description of Ms statue in the Museum 
was given at the Air Force Historical Association meeting at Boiling 
Air Force Base, September 6. A similar talk was made on January 
8 at a meeting of the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity, of which the General 
had been a member. On February 19 the Washington chapter repre- 
sented the fraternity in laying a wreath at the base of that statue, and 
on April 25 the American Legion paid similar tribute. 

The head curator served as chief judge at the National Model Air- 
plane Contest held in Cleveland, March 27, where he spoke on the 
recent progress by the Museum in acquiring significant material ; and 
during the same month he was judge at a model contest conducted 
by the Washington Junior Chamber of Commerce. 

Tours of the aeronautical collections were conducted for groups of 
young aviation enthusiasts at the request of Congressmen Peter Mack 
of Illinois, and Robert W. Kean of New Jersey. In all, Mr. Garber 
gave during the year 24 lectures, conducted 6 tours, and made 7 trips 
in connection with these educational services and for inspection of 
material offered to the Museum. 

IMPROVEMENTS IN EXHIBITS 

Some improvements were made during the year in the exhibits in 
the Aircraft Building and the Arts and Industries Building. With 
the unveiling of the William Mitchell statue, this became a permanent 
part of the exhibit in the Aeronautical Hall of the Arts and Industries 
Building. With the statue is a case containing Mitchell memorabilia, 
and directly adjacent is the restored and reconditioned SPAD-XVI, 
General Mitchell's airplane. Twenty dioramas lent by the U.S. Air 
Force, depicting the development of military aeronautics from the 
Civil War to the present time, were installed in this hall and provide a 
colorful and instructive exhibit. A revolving globe, with flight path 
and model airplanes illustrating the first "Around the World Flight," 
was added to the Collier Trophy case. The "Falcon" guided missile 
exhibit was added to the Aircraft Building. 

Improvements were made to several exhibition cases by adding 
overhead lighting and powered displays. These improvements in- 
volved the Pulitzer, Lowe, Mitchell, and Collier cases. 



130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Minor repairs were made to a number of aircraft and models on 
exhibition. 

REPAIR, PRESERVATION, AND RESTORATION 

It has been a year of activity at the Suitland storage facility in re- 
spect to improving equipment and facilities and in preservation, 
restoration, and warehousing. The proper warehousing of stored air- 
craft, engines, and parts was completed. Five aircraft were cleaned, 
preserved, and restored, awaiting exhibition. Twenty engines were 
cleaned, preserved, and stored. Four aircraft were preserved for 
outdoor storage. 

Water and electrical connections were installed for Building 10, and 
a concrete ramp was placed in front of the building. The heating of 
Bay C of this building was improved and the insulation of Bays A 
and B was begun. Other improvements in progress include roof re- 
pairs, the installation of a paint booth and equipment, a wash pit for 
aircraft and engines, and an engine hoist. The storage of miscel- 
laneous reference material in Building 2 was improved by boxing and 
warehousing. 

Considerable long-range planning was done in preparation for the 
major job of restoration and preparation of aircraft for exhibition in 
the proposed new building. 

ASSISTANCE TO GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS 

The National Air Museum had occasion to serve many Government 
agencies during the year. Among these were the Department of Jus- 
tice in connection with patent litigation ; the Department of Health, 
Education, and Welfare with relation to rocket information; the 
Voice of America in connection with material for its programs; the 
Department of State with reference to early aviation history informa- 
tion; the Department of the Air Force; the Department of the Navy; 
the Department of Agriculture; the Civil Aeronautics Administration 
of the Department of Commerce ; and the Post Office Department. 

PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES 

As previously indicated, furnishing information to the public is 
a very active function of the Museum and requires an increasing 
amount of staff time. The requests for information vary from "pic- 
tures of airplanes" for school children to highly technical information 
required by scientists and research workers. The requests come by 
telephone, mail, and personal visitation. The following examples 
will illustrate the diverse nature of this information service : 

The Chance Vought Aircraft Co. and the Douglas Aircraft Co. 
were furnished photographs for their publications. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 131 

The Museum has rendered assistance, by way of photographs, tech- 
nical and historical information to such publishers as Brown Broth- 
ers, H. S. Stuttman, Charles Scribner's Sons, Baltimore Sunday Star, 
Washington Evening Star, Flying Magazine, Toledo Blade, Our Navy 
Magazine, The Airman, Air Force Magazine, and Model Airplane 
News. 

Many authors of books and articles on aviation were provided with 
help through our information services. Among these were Maj. Kim- 
brough Brown, Douglas Ingles, Henry R. Palmer, Jr., W. D. Johnston, 
Frank O'Hasson, George Lonog, John W. Underwood, Harold More- 
house, Roy Wagner, Lawrence H. Conover, and C. R. Faust. 

The Wilbur Wright Junior High School of Milwaukee, Wis., re- 
ceived aid in selecting photographs for display and in planning a 
memorial exhibit. Assistance was rendered American University in 
connection with its First Annual Aviation Education Institute. 

The Museum also aided the U.S. Information Service with material 
for exliibition in Athens, Greece, and Paris, France. The Comite de 
Wilbur Wright of Le Mans, France, was provided with appropriate 
photographs for display at their commemoration celebration of the 
first flights of Wilbur Wright in France. 

Many individual teachers and students were furnished information 
in connection with their school aviation programs. 

REFERENCE MATERIAL AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

Valuable additions to the reference files, photographic files, and 
library of the Museum were received during the year. These records 
and documents are most valuable to the Museum staff in preparing 
labels, providing information services, and authenticating data. 

The cooperation of the following persons and organizations is sin- 
cerely appreciated : 

Aircraft Industries Association, Washington, D.C. (through Joseph Geuting, 
Jr.) : The Aircraft Yearbook for 1957-58. 

Air Force, Department of the, 1365th Photographic Group, M.A.T.S., Orlando, 
Fla. : A motion-picture film and tape recording of the ceremony when the 
statue of Brig. Gen. William Mitchell was unveiled, Dec. 17, 1957. 

Aldrin, Col. E. E., New York, N.Y. : Photostatic copies of two letters received 
by him from Dr. Robert H. Goddard, pertaining to rocket experiments in 1920- 
21. 

AxLWARD, Maurice, Middlesex, England : A copy of his recent book, "Milestones in 
Science." 

Barlow, Floyd E., Shoreham, Vt. : Scrapbook containing photographs and clip- 
pings of his early career in aviation (loan). A folder illustrating airplanes 
at the Dominguez Field aviation meet in California, 1910. 

Briscoe, Miss Yolando, Brooklyn, N.Y. : A contemporary poster pertaining to 
the "Spirit of St. Louis." 



132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

BUMPHEEY, Cecil, Kent, Ohio : A photograph of Charles Lindbergh taken at 'St 
Louis during his transcontinental flight in 1927. 

Calek, John W., North Hollywood, Calif.: Copy of his recent book, "Experi- 
mental Light Aircraft and Midget Racers." 

Campbell, Mrs. Maejorie, Washington, D.C. : Copy of the book which she co- 
authored with Glenn O. Blough, "Making and Using Classroom Science Ma- 
terials in the Elementary School " 

Cakl Byoir & Associates, Washington, D.C. (through H. G. Leader) : Two 
reels of motion pictures illustrating the presentation ceremony when the 
Hughes "Falcon" missile was given to the Museum, Apr. 15, 1958. 

Casey, Louis S., Washington, D.C. : A collection of books on aeronautics. 

Cato, Joseph L., Turlock, Calif.: Photographs and drawings of aircraft pro- 
duced by the L. W. F. Company of College Point, L.I., N.Y., 1917-22, where 
he was a designer. 

Civil Aeronautics Administration, Washington, D.C. : A collection of books 
on aeronautics. 

Claudy, Carl H. (deceased), Washington, D.C. ; 2 boxes of original glass nega- 
tives of the photographs taken by him at Fort Myer, Va., during flights there 
by Orville Wright in 1908 and 1909; framed photographs; and negatives of 
photographs taken at Arlington, Va., showing experiments with kites by Alex- 
ander Graham Bell. 

Clemons, Mrs. Anna B., Elmira, N.Y. : A collection of photographs illustrating 
aircraft developed by Glenn H. Curtiss. 

Cram, Miss Eloise (deceased), Bethesda, Md., and Mrs. Margaret Cram Sie- 
MEN, Hemet, Calif, (daughters of the late Ralph Cram) : Illustrations, clip- 
pings, and texts collected by Mr. Cram during his extensive career as an avi- 
ation enthusiast and journalist, including many of his own writings. 

Crawford, James J., Strasburg, Va. : A copy of the book "Up,'' by Mrs. George 
Gray, 1931, describing flights by her husband and herself during the period 
1912-16 and later flights by her husband and other famous flyers. 

Deckaed, Richard, Washington, D.C. : A copy of the booklet describing the 
Waco-F airplane, and data pertaining to the German V-1, De Havilland 
"Moth," and other aircraft. 

DoLAN, CoL. Carl, USAF (Ret.), Greenwich, Conn. : A photograph of the original 
members of the Lafayette Escadrille, famous group of American flyers in 
World War I, with whom he served. 

Hackett, Warren B., Mount Hermon, Calif.: Copy of the book "The Balloon 
Section of the American Expeditionary Forces," 1919. 

Harmel, Falk, Washington, D.C. : A collection of photographs of members of 
the "Caterpillar Club," composed of those whose lives have been saved by 
parachutes; texts pertaining to them and to A. L. Welsh, pioneer pilot of 
Wright Brothers' airplanes, who was killed in an airplane crash at College 
Park, Md., 1912. 

Hilleb Helicopters, Inc. (representative), Washington, D.C: A 16-mm. mo- 
tion-picture film showing types of helicopters. 
Hollow AY, William S., Honolulu, T.H. : Copy of the book "Aviation in Hawaii," 

by W. P. Yates. 
HuBBELL, Charles H., Cleveland, Ohio : A contemporary 3-view dimensioned 

scale drawing of the De Havilland-4 airplane, 1918. 
Hutchinson, J. D., Denver, Colo. : A collection of magazines, photographs, and 
material pertaining to aircraft and flight operations of the 1920's and 1930's 
collected during the donor's service as a military and commercial pilot. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 133 

Lees, Mrs. Walter L., Turlock, Calif. : Scrapbooks containing photographs and 
clippings pertaining to the career of her late husband as a pilot from 1912 
until his recent death ; including references to his flight instruction of Gen. 
William Mitchell in 1917 and his establishing, with F. A. Brossy, of an SiVo- 
hour nonrefueled duration record in 1931 (loan) . 

LoNGO, Robert R., Wichita, Kans. : Copies of "The Ford Story," by William T. 
Larkins, and "Operation Grasshopper," by Dario Politella. 

Model Aeronautical Press, Ltd., Watford, England : 23 copies of "Aero Modeller" 
magazine. 

Navy, Department of the, Washington, D.C. : 3-view dimensioned scale draw- 
ings of aircraft : Curtiss F8C-1 and F90, the Wright "Apache," and the PN-9. 

Poe, Mrs. Morgan, Washington, D.O. : 4 photographs of the Wright family: 
Bishop Milton Wright and Wilber, Orville, and Katherine Wright as children. 

Ransom, Arthur K., Freehold, N. J. : Copy of "The Curtiss Standard JN4-D 
Military Tractor Handbook." 

RowE, Geoffrey, Ontario, Canada : Posters prepared in World War II illustrating 
aircraft of that period, and used for training personnel to recognize friend 
from foe. 

Semple, Mrs. Cecella, Shirley, L.I., N.Y. : 12 contemporary photographs of the 
Wright EX airplane "Vin Fiz" in which Calbraith Perry Rodgers made the 
first transcontinental flight, 1911. 

Short, V. R., Clinton, Conn. : A collection of photographs of helicopters illus- 
trating progress in design during the past 50 years. 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. (River Basin Surveys, Missouri 
Basin Project, through Robert L. Stephenson) : A collection of aeronautical 
photographs, taken by Nathaniel L. Dewell, pertaining principally to the 
airmail service operated by the U.S. Post Office Department during the 1920's. 

Sullivan, R. O. D., Jr., Washington, D.C. : A collection of photographs illus- 
trating the aircraft and operations of the Aeromarine and Pan American air- 
lines during the 1920's, when the donor's father was one of the pilots with 
those organizations. 

Thorsen, Arthur, Encino, Calif. : A copy of the booklet "The Story of Art Smith," 
a pioneer pilot who in 1911 taught himself to fly in a homemade airplane, and 
continued in aviation until his death in 1926 while flying the mail. 

Underwood & Underwood, New York, N.Y. : Photographs of Amelia Earhart 
(loan). 

Union Title Insurance Co., San Diego, Calif. : A collection of photographs, per- 
taining mainly to aviation activities in the San Diego area, particularly those 
of Glenn Curtiss and his associates, and Charles Lindbergh and the Ryan Co., 
for the period 1911-32. 

United Aircraft Corp., East Hartford, Conn, (through Charles Stewart and 
Harvey Lippincott) : Texts pertaining to aeronautical history and develop- 
ment, including several describing Pratt and Whitney engines. 

Verville, Alfred, Washington, D.C. : A scrapbook of photographs associated 
with the lender's career as an aircraft designer from 1913 to the middle 1930's, 
including many pertaining to Glenn Curtiss (loan). 

ViLLARD, Henry, Washington, D.C. : Scrapbooks and contemporary pamphlets 
pertaining to airships, airplanes, and air meets from the early 1900's to the 
latter 1920's, most of the material related to the lender's personal association 
with air history. 

Wheeler, Mrs. Hubbard, Washington, D.C: Three photographs of the "Spirit 
of St. Louis" made during Lindbergh's landing at the Virgin Islands, January 
31, 1928. 



134 ANISTDAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

Williams, Maj. Alford (deceased), Elizabeth City, N.C. : A 3-view dimensioned 
scale drawing of the Grumman "Gulfhawk-II" airplane, which he flew during 
the period 1936-48 and presented to the Museum. 

YoTJNGEE, Dr. John E., University Park, Md. : Texts pertaining to pressurization 
of airplane cabins, particularly of the Lockheed XC-35, which was the subject 
for the Robert J. Collier Trophy award for 1937. The donor was acclaimed 
for his important developments in this field. 

ACCESSIONS 

Additions to the National Aeronautical collections received and re- 
corded during the fiscal year 1958 total 193 specimens in 52 separate 
accessions from 46 sources. 

Those from Government departments are entered as transfers; 
others were received as gifts except as noted. 

Aeroproducts Operations, Allison Division, General Motors Corp., Dayton, 
Ohio: An airplane propeller, 6-bladed, dual rotating, as used on the Allison 
T— iO turboprop-engined "Tradewind" Convair flying boat, and "Skyshark" 
Douglas Navy fighter of 195.5. (N.A.M. 966.) 

Air Force, Department of the. Air Force Museum, Wright-Patterson Air 
Base, Ohio: A series of 18 dioramas, illustrating the history of the U.S. Air 
Force and associated units from 1907 to 19-57 (loan). (N.A.M. 957.) Per- 
sonnel and Training Research Center, Air Research and Development 
Command, Randolph Air Force Base, Tex. : A complete "line" of equipment 
used by the U.S. Army Air Forces during World War II for the psychological 
testing of flight personnel to determine mental reaction, muscular control, co- 
ordination, and other factors associated with the operation of aircraft. 
(N.A.M. 980.) 

All-Woman Transcontinental Air Race, Inc., Mrs. Kay Brick, Vice Chair- 
man, Norwood, N.J. : Four display panels, with photographs of the winners 
of this annual race, popularly known as "The Powder Puff Derby," for the 
years 1947-19.57. (N.A.M. 995.) 

Barger, Cadet Maj. Robert M., C.A.P., Peoria, 111. : The Performance Data 
plate from the Douglas C-124 Globemaster which was the first U.S. Air 
Force plane to fly over the South Pole. The donor was aboard on this air- 
drop mission, October 26, 19.56. ( N.A.M. 960. ) 

Beech, Mrs. Olive Ann, Wichita, Kans. : A sculptured portrait in bronze of 
the late Walter Beech, 1891-1950, cofounder of Beech Aircraft Corp., made 
from life, by Bruce Moore; and a bronze medal, sculptured by Carl Paul 
Jennewein, commemorating the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Beech Air- 
craft Corp. (N.A.M. 956.) 

Beech Aircraft Corp., Wichita, Kans. : A scale model, 1 : 16 size, of the 
Beechcraft-17, stagger-wing 5-place cabin biplane of 1932. (N.A.M. 974.) 

Bell Aircraft Corp., Buffalo, N. Y. : A scale model, 1 : 16 size, of the Bell 
X-1 first supersonic airplane, 1947, illustrating the award for 1947 of the 
Robert J. Collier Trophy. (N.A.M. 9-52.) A scale model, 1:32 size, of 
the Bell "Rascal" G.A.M.-63, an air-to-surface guided missile in current use 
by the U.S. Air Force. (N.A.M. 975.) 

Boggess, R.. Alexandria, Va. : Breeches and puttees of the donor's U.S. Army 
officer's type uniform worn during World War I, and a 37-min. cartridge 
used with a German aircraft gun of that war. (N.A.M. 981.) 



Secretary's Report, 1 958 



Plate 








Statue of Gen. William Mitchell, unveiled December 17, 1957. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 135 

Bucks County Scientifio Society, Morrisville, Pa. (through E. L. Robinson, 
Pres.) : A Bristol "Hercules" 14-cylintler, sleeve-valve, 2-row radial, air-cooled 
aircraft engine, of 1,600 hp., made about 1941 by the Bristol Aeroplane Co. 
of England. ( N. A.M. 949. ) 

Cessna Aircraft Co., Wichita, Kaus. : Four scale models, 1 : 36 size, of aircraft 
made by the donor : The "Airmaster" 4-place high-wing single-engine mono- 
plane of 1938 ; the "310" 5-place low-wing twin-engined monoplane of 1954 ; the 
yH-41 2-place helicopter of 1954; and the "172" 4-place high-wing single- 
engined monoplane of 1955. (N.A.M. 996.) 

Cleveland, Ohio, Division of Airports (through Claude King, Commissioner 
of Airports) : An airport light, of the large ground-flooding type, used at 
Cleveland Airport in the early 1920's when that city became a stop on the 
first transcontinental air mail and passenger route. (N.A.M. 961.) 

Cline, Capt. Joseph, Coronado, Calif. : A U.S. naval aviator's uniform coat, 
worn by the donor in AVorld War I. He v/as a member of the U.S. Navy 
First Aeronautic Detachment, which was the first American offensive unit 
to arrive in France, landing there June 7, 1917, and flying the first American 
patrol, from Le Croisic, November 13, 1917. (N.A.M. 979.) 

CoNVAiR, A Division of General Dynamics Corp., San Diego, Calif. : A scale 
model, 1 : 16 size, of the F-102A "Delta Dagger" supersonic jet-powered inter- 
ceptor, in current use by the U.S. Air Foi'ce. (N.A.M. 948.) Five scale 
models, 1 : 16 and 1 : 48 size, of aircraft prominent in Convair history : The 
Consolidated PT-1 "Trusty," standard Army Air Corps trainer of 1924; the 
Vultee SNV "Valiant" Navy and Army Air Force basic trainer of 1939; the 
Consolidated PBY-5 "Catalina" Navy patrol plane of World War II ; the 
Consolidated B-24 "Liberator" Army Air Force bomber of World War II ; 
and the Convair B-58 "Hustler" supersonic 4-jet delta-winged bomber which 
is one of the most recent additions to the U.S. Air Force. (N.A.M. 983.) 

CuRTiss- Wright Corp., Wood-Ridge, N.J. : A scale model, 1 : 16 size, of the 
Curtiss "Triad" of 1911, one of the earliest water-borne aircraft. This model 
was made with precise detail by Frederick Howard of Denver, Colo. The 
Department of the Navy, through Alfred Verville and A. O. Van Wyen, assisted 
with research and helpful contacts. It is presented to the Museum in tribute 
to Glenn H. Curtiss as founder of one of the units from which the donor 
corporation was formed. (N.A.M. 993.) 

Douglas Aircraft Co., Inc., Santa Monica, Calif. : A world globe, on which is 
marked the route of the first flight around the world and to which are attached 
scale models of the Douglas U.S. Army Air Service airplanes which accom- 
plished that flight in 1924. This exhibit illustrates the award for that year 
of the Robert J. Collier Trophy. (N.A.M. 954.) A scale model, 1: 72 size, of 
the Douglas DC-8 Jetliner, 590-mile-per-hour transport, which is scheduled to 
enter service on commercial airlines in 1959, and scale models of four Douglas- 
made guided missiles: the Nike-Ajax, 20-foot-long surface-to-air weapon for 
defense against enemy aircraft ; the Nike-Hercules which is heavier and more 
than twice the diameter of the Ajax, and equipped to carry a nuclear warhead 
for similar defense ; the Sparrow which was developed by the Navy and Sperry 
Gyroscope Co., and made by Douglas under license for use in air-to-air combat ; 
and the Honest John designed for Army tactical use to provide close fire support 
for ground operations, surface-to-surface. (N.A.M. 997.) 

Ecker, Herman A., Fort Lauderdale, Fla. : Two aircraft engines, a Roberts 
6-eylinder vertical in-line 2-cycle water-cooled engine, developing 75 hp. 
at 1100 r. p. m. ; used by the donor in his flying boat of 1912 ; and a Velie 

492520—59 10 



136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

M-5 5-cylinder radial air-cooled engine of 55 hp., produced in 1928 for light 
airplanes, (N. A.M. 955.) 

Evans, Richard, Lathrop, Mo. : Aviation goggles without lenses, reported to 
have belonged to Miss Amelia Earhart, 1929. (N.A.M. 967.) 

Fleming, Mrs. Margaret Eddy, La JoUa, Calif. : A collection of kites and related 
material used by William A. Eddy of Bayonne, N.J., who was outstanding 
in the design, construction and use of kites for aerial photography, meteoro- 
logical research, military signaling and other practical purposes during the 
latter period of the nineteenth century. He was assisted in his experiments 
by a grant from the Hodgkins Fund of the Smithsonian Institution. (N.A.M. 
982.) 

Gattt, Mrs. Harold, Suva, Fiji : A collection of notebooks, papers, and other 
records used and acquired by Harold Gatty during his flight around the 
world with Wiley Post in the Lockheed Vega airplane "Winnie Mae," June 
23- July 1, 1931, when Mr. Gatty was navigator. (N.A.M. 973.) 

GoDDARD, Mrs. Esther, Worcester, Mass. : A portrait of the late Dr. Robert H. 
Goddard, 1882-1945, "Father of Rocketry," painted in oils by Mrs. Emily 
Burling Waite Manchester. (N.A.M. 970.) 

Hamilton, Edward G., Old Westbury, L.I., N.Y. : The donor's original Flight 
Log for the years 1922-1926, including the period in 1924 when he was test 
flying Stout Air Pullman planes, in 1925 when he was pilot for the inaugural 
run of the Ford Airlines, and in 1926 when he flew the first contract airmail 
between Detroit, Cleveland, and Chicago. (N.A.M. 958.) 

Herrick, Scott H., and Cornell, Mrs. Suzanne Herrick, New York, N.Y. : 
The Herrick "Vertoplane" of 1937, and devices associated with the aero- 
nautical experiments of the late Girard P. Herrick. This aircraft is an early 
example of the types generally classed as convertoplaues which combine 
the flight performance of airplanes with the vertical-lift, sustentation, and 
descent characteristics of rotorcraft. In July 1937 this piloted aircraft ac- 
complished what is believed to be the first midair conversion from fixed-wing 
to rotary-wing flight. The associated devices received with this aircraft 
include wind-tunnel models, control mechanisms, test models of rotors, and 
instruments. The donors are the children of Mr. Herrick. The assistance of 
Mrs. G. P. Herrick, Ralph McLarren, and John Glennon in obtaining this 
material is gratefully acknowledged. (N.A.M. 994.) 

Hughes Aircraft Co., Culver City, Calif.: A "Falcon" GAR-1 guided missile, 
mounted on a display panel having transparency illustrations of air-combat 
methods, and a sound recording describing this missile, which is in current 
use by U. S. Air Force interceptor planes, for air-to-air combat. The formal 
presentation of this display was by Senator Barry Goldwater of Aj-izona, 
the Missile Manufacturing Division of the donor being in that State. 
(N.A.M.984.) 

Kallir, Otto, New York, N.Y. : Six glider models made by Robert Kronfeld, 
famous Austrian designer and pilot of high-performance sailplanes. He was 
first to make a continuous glide for 100 kilometers, first to soar across the 
Alps, and made notable intercity glides. These beautifully made models, 
given to the donor who was a close friend, include the "Wien," in which 
Kronfeld established world records for motorless flight of 93.15 miles distance 
and 7.084 feet altitude in 1929. He was killed while test piloting an English 
military airplane, 1948. (N.A.M. 989.) 

Lear, Inc., Grand Rapids, Mich. : The Lear F-5 Electropilot equipment, devel- 
oped by the donors to provide automatic flight control for high-performance 
aircraft. Subject of the Robert J. Collier Trophy Award for 1949. (N.A.M. 
950.) 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 137 

Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank, Calif, (through Washington, D.C., repre- 
sentative) : Scale models, 1 : 48 size, of a Lockheed Q-5 drone, which is an 
unmanned radio-guided aircraft in current use by the U.S. Air Force as a 
supersonic missile target; and a Lockheed X-7 research vehicle used as a 
flying test bed for ramjet engines. (N.A.M. 978.) 

Martin Co., The, Baltimore, Md. : Two scale models of Martin pilotless air- 
craft in current use: The Air Force "Matador" TM-61B guided missile, 
and the Navy "Vanguard" earth satellite vehicle. (N.A.M. 977.) 

McCauley, Ernest G., Fort Lauderdale, Fla. : Two 2-bladed metal propellers 
for airplanes ; production examples invented by the donor. One is of solid 
steel and adjustable pitch with an airfoil of thin section to reduce weight 
and of concave-convex shape to improve rigidity. Following a test by the 
Army Air Corps in 1933 when this make of propeller improved the takeoff, 
climb, and speed of a training plane, it was adopted by both the Army and 
Navy, for use with trainers, and continued in use for 10 years. The other 
propeller received, with the trade name MET-L-PROP, was developed in 1947 
for use with light airplanes. It is of aluminum alloy, fixed pitch, forged 
in one piece including the hub section. (N.A.M. 990.) 

Nafe, Db. John Elliott, Columbia University, Palisades, N. Y. : The cap and 
gown worn by the late Robert Hutchings Goddard, "Father of Rocketry," 
when receiving his doctorate of physics at Clark University, 1912 (loan). 
(N.A.M. 998.) 

National Advisory Committee fob Aeronautics, Langley Field, Va. : A Nike- 
Cajun sounding rocket, the N.A.C.A. jet-supported platform which utilizes 
a teetering rotor, the N.A.C.A. jet-supported platform which utilizes a jet 
of compressed air, and an N.A.C.A. wing flow balance. (N.A.M. 963.) 

Navy, Department of the, Washington, D.C. : An enlarged photograph of 
a De Havilland-4B airplane, one of the U.S. Air Force Service types flown 
by Brig. Gen. William Mitchell in 1921. Enlargement made from an Air 
Foi-ce negative for exhibition with General Mitchell's statue. (N.A.M. 
968). A full-size exterior duplicate of the "Vanguard" rocket-powered satel- 
lite vehicle which on March 17, 1958, carried America's second satellite into 
orbit around the earth. This achievement by the U.S. Navy, with the vehicle 
manufactured by The Martin Company, followed about six weeks after the 
U.S. Army's ".Jupiter" had carried America's first satellite, the "Explorer," 
into orbit, and over 5 months after Russia had made the initial success. 
This "Vanguard" was formally received for the National Air Museum by Dr. 
Leonard Carmichael, Secretai-y of the Smithsonian Institution, from Rear Adm. 
Rawson Bennett, Chief of Naval Research. The ceremony was held in the 
rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building of the U.S. National Museum 
where the top of the "Vanguard," exhibited in launching position, reaches 
72 feet in height. Near the floor beside the vehicle is shown a reproduction 
of the 6-inch-diameter, 3i/4-pound satellite which has been continuously 
circling the earth since launched, and will probably continue to orbit for years 
to come. ( N.A.M. 992. ) 

Nevin, Robert S., Denver, Colo. : A 1 : 16-size scale model of the Wright Com- 
pany type "H" airplane of 1915; a 2-place, twin-pusher biplane, developed 
as a weight carrier with a useful load of 1,000 pounds and speed of 56 mph. 
Model constructed by Mr. Nevin (purchase). (N.A.M. 947.) 

Newburgh Free Academy, Newburgh, N.Y. : A LeRhone rotary engine, air 
cooled; a type used in World War I. Its nine cylinders radiate from the 
central crankcase and revolve like the spokes of a wheel. (N.A.M. 987.) 



138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Pabker, William D., Bartlesville, Okla. : An aircraft altimeter, of the Paulin 
type, with level-flight indicator; used about 1930. (N.A.M. 953.) 

Pease, Ward, Winnetka, 111. : A model airplane of the flying-stick, twin-pusher 
rubberband-powered canard-monoplane type, made and flown by the donor in 
1916. A sport competition of the Illinois Model Aero Club was won by this 
model on May 24. 1916, when its longest flight was 4.423 feet. (N.A.M. 972.) 

Pfeiffeb, Rev. Robert F., Richmond, Ind. : A communion service made from 
aircraft parts by American "GI's" stationed at the First Strategic Air 
Depot, Honington, England, in 1943. All material used had been in combat. 
The set consists of 200 cups of .50-caliber machinegun shells and silver plated ; 
bread plates made from the tops of B-17 pistons ; a cross formed from parts 
of a damaged B-17; and candlesticks made from antiaircraft shells. The 
donor was the Chaplain at that Depot. (N.A.M. 988.) 

Post Office Department, Washington, D.C. : The Air Mail Flyers' Medal of 
Honor, authorized by Congress February 14, 1931, for presentation by the 
President of the United States to pilots who perform distinguished service in 
connection with airmail operations. Ten pilots have received it. The placing 
of this medal in the National Aeronautical collections was one of the cere- 
monies of the fortieth anniversary of tlie first continuously scheduled public 
service airmail route, established May 15, 1918, between Washington, Phila- 
delphia, and New York. At the anniversary ceremony, Dr. Leonard Car- 
michael, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, received the medal for 
the Museum from Deputy Postmaster General Edson G. Sessions. (N.A.M. 
991.) 

RiCKENBACKER, Capt. Edward V., Eastom Air Lines, New York, N.Y. : A Verville- 
Sperry "Messenger" airplane of 1920, designed by Alfred Verville, and manu- 
factured by the Lawrence Sperry Aircraft Co. by order of Brig. Gen. William 
Mitchell who realized that a "motorcycle of the air" was required for military 
liaison services; and a Pitcairn "Mailwing" of 1928, developed by Pitcairn 
Aviation, Inc., for their use in operating Contract Air Mail Route No. 19 
between New York and Atlanta, later absorbed by Eastern Air Lines. "Mail- 
wings" were used also on other airmail routes of the 1920's and early 1930's. 
This example was Eastern Air Lines' first airplane, and was obtained in later 
years by a group of his employees who presented it to Capt. Rickenbacker as 
a mark of esteem. (N.A.M. 959.) 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. (from Department of Arts and 
Manufactures, U.S.N.M.) : A transparent conical nose section as made for 
a Lockheed "Hudson" bomber of 1941, illustrating the use of the acrylic resin 
"Plexiglas." manufactured by Rohm & Haas Co. of Philadelphia. (N.A.M. 
986.) (From the library) : A scale model, 1:12 size, of an aircraft-control 
device originated by James Means of Boston about 1910. (N.A.M. 951.) 

Stephenson, George H. (deceased), Philadelphia, Pa.: A bronze statue of Brig. 
Gen. William Mitchell standing in his World War I uniform ; sculptured IVe 
times natural size by Bruce Moore. (N.A.M. 9G9.) 

Topping, Inc., Akron, Ohio (through William Topping, president) : Three scale 
models of guided missiles in current use by U.S. Armed Forces : a Boeing 
"Bomarc" IM-99 Air Force ground-to-air pilotless interceptor; a Martin 
Lacrosse Army surface-to-surface demolition weapon ; and a Martin "Bull 
Pup" Navy air-to-surface weapon, launched by attack planes against major 
ship and ground targets. ( N.A.M. 976. ) 

United Aibcbaft Cobp., Peatt & Whitney Aibcbaft Division, East Hartford, 
Conn.: A Pratt & Whitney R-2800 Double Wasp aircraft engine, type CB-16, 
No, X-88, of 18 cylinders, 2-row radial, air cooled, rated 2,400 hp. at takeoflf. 
(N.A.M.971.) 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 139 

Walden, Db. Henby W., New York, N.Y. : Scale models, 1 : 16 size, of the Walden- 
III and the Walden-IX, early American monoplanes, designed, built, and 
flown 1909-11 by the donor, who also made these models ; and a scale model, 
1 : 8 size, of a guided missile, radio-controlled air-to-ground free-drop bomb 
invented by him in 1915. (N.A.M. 965.) 

Weeks, E. D., Des Moines, Iowa : Parts of a Wright Type "G" flying boat, 
originally constructed by the Wright Co. of Dayton, Ohio, 1914. Flown and 
later modified by Ernest Hall. The parts include struts, wires, braces, and 
the seat. (N.A.M. 964.) 

White, Gen. Thomas D., Chief of Staff, U.S. Air Force, Washington, D.C. : A 
framed letter from General White to Dr. Leonard Carmichael, Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution, in reference to the use of the "Falcon" guided 
missile as "the first operational air-to-air guided missile ... an effective deter- 
rent to enemy air attacli." (N.A.M. 985.) 

Younger, Dr. John E., University Park, Md. : The "Spirit of St. Louis" gold 
medal, awarded to Professor Younger by the American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers, June 18, 1941, "for meritorious service in the advancement of 
aeronautics . . . particularly in the conception, analysis, and supervision of 
the development of the fundamental design principles, requirements and 
criteria which first assured the success of the pressure-cabin type of high- 
altitude airplane." ( N.A.M. 962. ) 



Kespectf ully submitted. 



Philip S. Hopkins, Director. 



Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the National Zoological Park 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities 
of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958. 

EXHIBITS 

A complete animal exhibit is one in which the animals are kept in 
secure surroundings that satisfy the requirements of the animal, is 
esthetically pleasing to the public, and contributes to an increased 
knowledge of the animals and their behavior. This is the goal of the 
National Zoological Park. 

During the year the collection has been balanced and adjusted. 
Progress is being made toward exhibiting more North American 
fauna, while not neglecting the display of exotic species. 

The year's most important zoological event at the Park and perhaps 
in any zoo in the United States was the conception and birth on May 18, 
1958, of a snow-leopard kitten. Never before has there been a birth of 
this rare and beautiful leopard in the Western Hemisphere, and the 
records indicate that only five kindlings are known in the worldwide 
history of zoos. So far as can be ascertained, there have been only two 
kittens successfully reared. The kitten, a female, was abandoned by its 
mother after 24 hours and has been hand-reared by Zoo personnel. 
The first six weeks of its life were extremely critical, requiring almost 
constant attention. After a great deal of uncertainty and suspense, it 
is now apparently healthily established and vigorously growing. 

A new program was instituted for training the elephants. A pro- 
fessional elephant man, Eoger MacDonald, was hired as a keeper, and 
he has been teaching the two 10-year-old Indian elephants, Ashoka 
and Shanti, and the two little elephants, Nancy, an African, and Dixie, 
an Asiatic, to obey commands. The ends of the tusks of Ashoka, the 
male Indian, were growing so close together that it was beginning to 
be difficult for him to raise his trunk or feed himself. Rather than 
saw off the tusks, Mr. MacDonald fashioned a set of braces which are 
correcting the defect. 

The Siberian crane, Grus leucogeranus^ celebrated its 52d birthday 
in the Park shortly before the close of the fiscal year. As far as is 
known, this constitutes a longevity record for cranes in captivity. The 
rare female Mongolian wild, horse has also achieved a longevity record 
for its species of 32 years. 
140 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 141 



GIFTS 



The Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior 
has continued to cooperate in the procurement of desirable species of 
North American birds and animals. Outstanding among accessions 
this year are a pair of trumpter swans on deposit here. These beauti- 
ful North American birds had almost vanished a few years ago, but by 
careful management on the part of the Department of the Interior they 
have been saved from extinction. These two were collected by Winston 
E. Banko in the Red Rock Lakes National Waterfowl Refuge in west- 
ern Montana. Other stations of the Fish and Wildlife Service have 
sent the Zoo four woodcock, a bald eagle, an osprey, and numerous 
species of wild ducks. 

Through the Animal and Bird Protection Board of Hobart, Tas- 
mania, three Tasmanian devils were obtained. They had not been 
shown in this collection for many years. 

The Royal Zoological Society of Antwerp, Belgium, sent the Zoo 
a fine pair of great black-casqued hornbills. These were formally 
presented by Baron Leopold Dhanis of the Belgian Embassy on 
January 16, 1958. 

Jack Marks, director of the Portland, Oreg., Zoo, in cooperation 
with the U.S. Navy, Operation Deepfreeze, brought back a number 
of Adelie penguins. Some of them went to the zoos in Portland, 
Oreg., San Diego, Calif., and New York, N. Y., and 12 were brought 
to the National Zoological Park and Johns Hopkins University. 
These birds are being studied by specialists in aspergillosis, the 
fungus disease that attacks penguins and other birds. The U.S. 
Navy also obtained for the Zoo a group of albatrosses of two species, 
Diomedea nigripes and D. imTrmtabiUs, but unfortunately the birds 
did not survive, the longest that any one lived being three months. 

The U.S. Army, 6th Infantry Division, stationed in Berlin, Ger- 
many, sent the Zoo a European brown bear that had been given them 
as a mascot by the citizens of Berlin on Armed Forces Day, 1957. 
The new recruit was so successful in his placement as mascot that 
he was soon promoted to private first class. Later he did what many 
soldiers have wanted to do — bit the first sergeant. He was imme- 
diately demoted to private, and in consequence thereof a short time 
later he went AWOL, causing great consternation in the regiment 
and in the city of Berlin. Despite his seemingly erratic Army career, 
he has been discharged honorably from the United States Army and 
is now enjoying his civilian life at the National Zoological Park. 
"Teddy" was formally presented by the Honorable Dewey Short, 
Assistant Secretary of the Army; representing the West German 
Republic was Brig. Gen, Wolf Dietrich Von Steinmetz; and Dr. 



142 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 



Leonard Carmichael accepted for the Smithsonian Institution and 
the National Zoological Park. The bear's cage is appropriately 
decorated with the seal of the Sixth Infantry and the seal of Berlin. 
The Zoo is fortunate in having among its friends members of the 
Armed Forces who, when stationed abroad, are always on the lookout 
for rare and interesting animals. Dr. Robert E. Kuntz, of the Navy 
Medical Research Unit in Taipei, Taiwan, sent a number of speci- 
mens including an eared pangolin, which, although it seemed to be 
doing well, lived only four months. Lt. Col. Robert Traub, stationed 
in Kuala Lumpur, Malaya, sent a linsang {Prionodon linsang), a 
species never before exhibited in this collection, as well as a number 
of particularly interesting reptiles. Other animals collected by these 
men are included in the following list of gifts of special interest : 



Animal Shop, Norfolk, Va., canebrake 
rattlesnake, copperhead, water moc- 
casin. 

Badgiey, Eugene, District Heights, 
Md., albino weasel. 

Cabin, Carl B., Washington, D.C., 3 
masked lovebirds. 

Child, Mrs. William S., Falls Church, 
Va., tovi parakeet. 

Dawkins, H. C, Entebbe, Uganda, 
black-and-white casqued hornbill. 

DePrato, Mario, Langley Park, Md., 
black racer, brown water snake, 
common king snake, red-bellied 
water snake, 2 rainbow snakes, 3 
water moccasins, 2 blue-tailed 
skinks, brown skink. 

duPont, Ir6n6e, Wilmington, Del., 2 
Cuban tree boas. 

Hafer, F. L., Arlington, Va., collec- 
tion of tropical fish. 

Hecht Co., through S. Haken, dis- 
play manager, Washington, D.C., 
11 ring-necked doves, 10 fan-tailed 
pigeons, peacock, golden pheasant. 

Hoogstral, Dr. Harry, U.S. Naval 
Medical Research Unit #8, Cairo, 
Egypt, 2 hedgehogs, 18 jerboas, 25 
gerbils. 

Hubbell, Mrs. Robert L., Falls Church, 
Va., Mexican double yellow-headed 
parrot. 

Kilham, Dr. Lawrence, Bethesda, Md., 

2 hand-reared flickers. 

Kuntz, Dr. Robert E., Taipei, Taiwan, 

3 Chinese vipers, 10 rat snakes. 



racer, pangolin, 3 monkeys, 6 squir- 
rels, Formosan masked civet, 6 
Formosan cobras, sea snake, 3 Habu 
snakes, 3 Russell's vipers, 6 kraits, 
Formosan rat snake, Swinhoe's 
pheasant, 2 quail, Formosan red- 
billed pie, 2 Formosan flying squir- 
rels, 11 palm vipers, 11 Europholis. 

Magens, Dr. Hans, Okinawa, 8 Habu 
snakes, 2 Asian moccasins. 

McGuire, L. S., Falls Church, Va., 
cockatiel. 

National Capital Parks, Great Falls, 
Md., copperhead, queen snake, pilot 
black snake, water snake, wood 
turtle, red-bellied water turtle. 

New York Zoological Park, New York, 
N.Y., 4 baby king cobras, born in 
their collection. 

Nye, Alva, McLean, Va., golden eagle. 

Owen, Roger L., Mount Rainier, Md., 
red-fronted parrot. 

Phelps, C. F., Game and Inland Fish- 
eries, Richmond, Va., 3 wild tur- 
keys. 

Safeway Warehouse, Washington, 
D.C., emperor boa, tropical king 
snake. 

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty 
to Animals, Richmond, Va., Cuban 
flamingo. 

Thorington, David W., Richmond, 
Va., margay cat. 

Townsend, Dr. W. C, Washington, 
D.C., 2 boa constrictors, green tree 
boa, rainbow boa. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



143 



Traub, Lt. Col. Robert, Kuala Lum- 
pur, Malaya, linsang, twin-barred 
tree snake, 2 Pope's vipers, pit vi- 
per, Malayan racer, blue Malayan 
coral snake, 2 regal pythons, grass- 
green whipsnake, 4 giant geckos, 4 
forest lizards, 2 skinks. 

Urlass, H. M., Bangkok, Thailand, 
leopard. 

Welch, Mrs. A. L., Washington, D.C., 
collection of tropical fish. 



Williams, Mrs. Fred A., Washington, 
D.C., red and blue macaw. 

Xanten, William Jr., Washington, 
D.C., chicken snake, 2 Florida king 
snakes, corn snake, 4 garter snakes, 
ribbon snake, 2 Florida water 
snakes, green water snake, scarlet 
king snake, 4 skinks, eastern dia- 
mond-backed rattlesnake, 2 Florida 
water terrapins, musk turtle. 



PURCHASES 

Included among animals acquired from dealers this year were three 
species of African sunbirds, a bataleur eagle, a pair of Argus pheas- 
ants, a Cape monitor, a large Indian monitor, a young Brazilian tapir, 
eight quokkas {Setonix hrachyur-us) from the Perth (Australia) 
Zoological Gardens, a white-headed piping guan, 2 nocturnal curas- 
sows, 2 gray hornbills, 2 little black woodpeckers, 2 female red deer, 
2 forest falcons, a chimango, and an olingo. 

EXCHANGES 
Animals were obtained by exchanges made with the following 



zoos: 

Calgary Zoological Park, Calgary, Al- 
berta, Swainson's hawk, 2 Steller's 
jays, 4 evening grosbeaks. 

Cincinnati Zoo, Cincinnati, Ohio, 
eland, 2 jaguars, a Queen of Ba- 
varia conure. 

Crandon Park Zoo, Miami, Fla., 2 
vulturine guineafowl, 2 tree ducks, 
ocellated turkey. 

Edmonton Zoological Society, Edmon- 



ton, Alberta, 4 snowy owls, 2 wol- 
verines. 

Houston Zoo, Houston, Tex., western 
rattlesnakes, copperheads, and oth- 
er reptiles. 

San Diego Zoological Society, San 
Diego, Calif., Uta lizards. 

Woodland Park Zoo, Seattle, Wash., 
2 band-tailed pigeons, 2 magpies, 2 
Steller's jays. 



BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS 

The snow leopard, previously referred to, is the outstanding birth 
of the year. A gibbon hybrid, offspring of another hybrid, was born 
on January 6, 1958, and is being raised at home by Keeper Herbert R. 
Stroman. Vicky Jean, the black- faced chimpanzee born on June 20, 
1957, has become one of the Zoo's most popular exhibits. She now 
spends most of each day in her cage but is still taken home at night 
by Bernard Gallagher, the keeper who raised her. 

Because of their curious life history, the hatching of Surinam toads 
in captivity is always of interest. One of the Zoo's females laid eggs, 
the male carefully embedded them in her back, and 30 little toads 
eventually hatched. 



144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

A new incubator and brooding pens have been installed in the bird 

house. Intensive efforts are being made to incubate eggs laid at the 
Zoo. 

One of the signs that an animal is doing well in captivity is its 
ability to reproduce its kind and, as the following list shows, the num- 
ber of mammals, birds, and reptiles born in the National Zoological 
Park during the year is gratifying : 

MAMMALS 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Acomys cahirinus Egyptian spiny mouse 5 

Ammotragus lervia Aoudad 4 

Anoa depressicornis Anoa 1 

Atilax paludinosus Water civet 1 

Bihos gaurus Gaur 1 

„ , [West Highland cattle 2 

Bos taurus i-D-i.-uTTii.ii n 

[British Park cattle 2 

Cebus sp Capuchin monkey 1 

Cercopithecus cephus Mustached guenon 1 

Cercopithecus negledus DeBrazza's guenon 1 

Cervus canadensis American elk 1 

Cervus elaphus Red deer 1 

Cervus nippon Sika deer 2 

Choloepus didactylus Two-toed sloth 1 

j~. , [Brown fallow deer 1 

|.^j^.^^ j^jj^^ ^^^^ ^ 

Equus burchelU boehmi Grant's zebra 1 

Felis concolor Puma 3 

Felis pardus Black leopard 2 

Felis uncia Snow leopard 2 

Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus X H. Hybrid gibbon 1 

lar. 

Hypsiprymnodon moschatus Rat kangaroo 2 

Hystrix galeata African porcupine 2 

Jaculus jaculus Jerboa 4 

Lama glama Llama 5 

Lama pacos Alpaca 1 

Macropus giganteus _ Great gray kangaroo 1 

Macaca sinica Bonnet macaque 1 

Macaca sylvanus Barbary ape 2 

Nasua narica Coatimundi 4 

Odocoileus virginianus Virginia deer 1 

Taurotragus oryx Eland 1 

Thalardos marilimus X Ursus midden- Hybrid bear (2d generation) 2 

dorffi. 

Ursus horribilis... Grizzly bear 2 

BIRDS 

Branta canadensis Canada goose 4 

Columba livia Homing pigeon 5 

Cygnus cygnus Whooping swan 2 

Dendronessa galericulata Mandarin duck 18 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



145 



BIRDS— Continued 
Scientific name Common name 

Gallus gallus Red junglefowl 

Melopsittacus undulatus Grass parakeet 

Munia oi'yzivora Java finch 

Pavo cristatus Peafowl 



Number 
.. 5 
.. 12 
.. 5 
4 



REPTILES 

Ancistrodon contortrix Copperhead 13 

Chamaeleon bitaeniatus hoehneli African chameleon 14 

Chelydra serpentina Snapping turtle. 8 

Chrysemys picta Painted turtle 20 

Epicrates angulifer Cuban tree boa 3 

Eumeces fasciatus Blue-tailed skink 4 

Mabuya multifasciata Skink 8 

6 

30 

63 

.._ 9 

8 



Matrix septemvittata Queen snake 

Pipa pipa Surinam toad — 

Pseudemys scripta Red-lined turtle. 

Sceloporus undulatus Pine lizard 

Terrapene Carolina Box turtle 



FISH 



Tanichthys albonubes White Cloud Mountain fish 5 

The total number of accessions for the year was 1,411. This in- 
cludes gifts, purchases, exchanges, deposits, births, and hatchings. 
A determined effort was made this year to accept as gifts, purchases, 
or exchanges only those animals that fit into the long-range exhibition 
plans of the National Zoological Park. 

The collection has fewer individuals listed this year because many 
species were felt to have an excessive number of individuals and have 
been adjusted to a more reasonable number in relation to the over-all 
collection, thus providing a more balanced exhibition. Several minor 
species which are best displayed in large numbers do not have an 
individual count, merely being listed as "many." 

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION 



Class 


Orders 


Families 


Species or 
subspecies 


Individuals 


Mammals 


13 
20 

4 
2 
5 
4 
1 


50 

67 
23 
11 
11 
5 
1 


214 

304 

155 

23 

23 

5 

1 


634 


Birds .. 


889 


Reptiles.. 


555 


Amphibians _ 


124 


Fish 


75 


Arthropods 


39 


Mollusks 


Many 






Total 


49 


168 


725 


2,316 







146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1958 

MAMMALS 

MONOTEEMATA 

Scientific Jiame Common name Number 
Tachyglossidae: 

Tachyglossus aculeatus Ech idna, or spiny anteater 1 

MARSUPIALIA 

Didelphiidae: 

Didelphis marsupialis virginiana Opossum 1 

Dasyuridae: 

Sarcophilus harrisii Tasmanian devil 3 

Phalangeridae: 

Trichcsurus vulpecula Vulpine opossum 1 

Petaurus norfolcensis Lesser flying phalanger 3 

Phascolomidae: 

Lasiorhinus latifrons Hairy-nosed wombat 2 

Wombaius hirsutus Mainland wombat 1 

Macropodidae: 

Macropus rufus Red kangaroo 1 

Macropus giganteus Gray kangaroo 2 

Hypsiprymnodon moschaius Rat kangaroo 8 

INSECTIVOEA 
Erinaceidae: 

Erinaceus europaeus European hedgehog 1 

Soricidae: 

Blarina hrevicauda Short-tailed shrew 1 

PRIMATES 

Lemuridae: 

Lemur mongoz Mongooz lemur 1 

Lorisidae: 

Nycticebus coucang Slow loris 2 

Galago crassicaudaius Thick-tailed galago 4 

Galago senegalensis Bush baby or night-ape 2 

Cebidae: 

Aotus irivirgafus Night monkey 5 

Cacajao rubicundus Red uakari 1 

Cebus nigriviltatus Brown capuchin monkey 3 

Cebus albifrons White-throated capuchin 3 

Saimiri sciureus Squirrel monkey 5 

Aieles fusciceps robustus Colombian black spider monkey 2 

Aides geoffroyi geoffroyi or griscesens. Spider monkey 2 

Ateles geoffroyi vellerosus Spider monkey 2 

Lagothrix pygmaea Woolly monkey 2 

Callithricidae: 

Leontocebus rosalia Golden lion tamarin 1 

Saquinus nigricollis Black-and-red tamarin 4 

Cercopithecidae: 

Macaca sinica Toque or bonnet monkey 3 

Macaca nemestrina Pig-tailed monkey 1 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 147 

MAMMALS— Continued 
PRIMATES — continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Cercopithecidae — Continued 

Macaca philippinensis Philippine macaque 1 

Macaca mulatta Rhesus monkey 3 

Macaca lasiotis Chinese macaque 1 

Macaca cyclopis Formosan monliey 3 

Macaca speciosa Red-faced macaque 1 

Macaca sylvanus Barbary ape 9 

Macaca maurus Moor macaque 2 

Allenopithecus nigroviridis Allen's monkey 2 

Cercocebus albigena Gray-cheeked mangabey 1 

Cercocebus aierrimus Black-crested mangabey 3 

Cercocebus aierrimus opdenboschii Crested mangabey 2 

Cercocebus galeritus agilis Agile mangabey 1 

Cercocebus galeritus chrysogaster Golden-bellied mangabey 1 

Cercocebus iorqiiatus torquatus Red-crowned mangabey 2 

Cercocebus fuliginosus Sooty mangabey 4 

Mandrillus sphinx Mandrill 1 

Papio comatus Chacma baboon 1 

Papio cynocephalus Golden baboon 2 

Papio hamadryas - _, Hamadryas baboon 1 

Theropithecus gelada Gelada baboon 1 

Cercopiihecus aethiops pygerythrus Vervet guenon 1 

Cercopilhecus aethiops sabaeus Green guenon 3 

Cercopiihecus aethiops sabaeus X C. a. Hybrid, green guenon X vervet 2 

pygerythrus. guenon. 

Cercopithecus cephus Moustached monkey 4 

Cercopithecus diana Diana monkey 2 

Cercopithecus diana roloway Roloway monkey 

Cercopithecus I'hoesti preussi Preussi's guenon 

Cercopithecus neglectus DeBrazza's guenon 

Cercopithecus nictitans White-nosed guenon 

Cercopithecus nictitans petaurista Lesser white-nosed guenon 

Presbytis phayrei Spectacled langur 

Pongidae: 

Hylobates hoolock Hoolock 

Hylobaies lar White-handed gibbon 

Hylobates moloch Wau-wau gibbon 

Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus Hybrid gibbon 

Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus X Hybrid gibbon 

H. lar. 

Pongo pygmaeus pygmaeus Sumatran orangutan 2 

Pongo pygmaeus abelii Bornean orangutan 1 

Pan satyrus Chimpanzee 4 

Gorilla gorilla Gorilla 2 

LAGOMORPHA 
Leporidae: 

Sylvilagus floridanus Cottontail rabbit 1 

Oryctolagus cuniculus Domestic or European rabbit 1 



148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

M A M M ALS— Continued 

RODENTIA 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Sciuridae: 

Sciurus carolinensis Gray squirrel, albino 1 

Sciurus niger Fox squirrel 1 

Ratufa indica Giant Indian squirrel 1 

Callosciurus erythraeus Formosan tree squirrel 5 

Callosciurus caniceps Asiatic forest squirrel 4 

Marmota monax Ground-hog 1 

Cynomys ludovicianus Prairie-dog 29 

Tamias striatus Eastern chipmunk, albino 1 

Petaurista grandis Formosan flying squirrel 1 

Glaucomys volans volans Eastern flying squirrel 21 

Cricetidae: 

Nyctomys sumichrasii Vesper rat 2 

Mesocricetus auratus Hamster 6 

Meriones unguiculatus Mongolian gerbil 2 

Muridae: 

Acomys cahirinus Egyptian spiny mouse 43 

Phloeomys cumingii Slender-tailed cloud rat 5 

Gliridae: 

Graphiurus murinus African dormouse 5 

Dipodidae: 

Jaculus jacuhcs Jerboa 11 

Allactaga tetradaciyla Four-toed jerboa 9 

Hystricidae: 

Acanthion brachyura Malay porcupine 1 

Hystrix galeaia African porcupine 7 

Erethizontidae: 

Coendou prehensilis Prehensile-tailed porcupine 1 

Caviidae: 

Cavia porcellus Guinea-pig 13 

Dasyproctidae: 

Cuniculus paca Paca 1 

Dasyproda punctata Speckled agouti 3 

Chinchillidae: 

Lagidium viscaccia Peruvian viscaccia 1 

Chinchilla chinchilla Chinchilla 2 

Capromyidae: 

Myocastor coypus Coypu 1 

EDENTATA 
Myrmecophagidae: 

Myrmecophaga tridactyla Giant anteater 2 

Bradypodidae: 

Choloepus didactylus Two-toed sloth 4 

Dasypodidae: 

Dasypus novemcinctus Nine-banded armadillo 1 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 149 

MAMMALS— Continued 

CARNIVORA 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Canidae: 

Cams antarcticus Dingo 1 

Cam's lupus nubilus Timber wolf 4 

Canis niger rufus Red wolf 1 

Vulpes fulva Red fox 2 

Vulpes fulva Platinum fox 3 

Fennecus zerda Fennec fox 2 

Urocyon cinereoargenteus Gray fox 1 

Nyctereutes procyonoides Raccoon dog 6 

Speothos venaticus Bush dog 2 

Lycaon pictus African, or Cape, hunting dog 2 

Otocyon megalotis Big-eared fox 4 

Ursidae: 

Tremarctos ornatus Spectacled bear 1 

Selenarctos thibeianus Himalayan black bear 2 

Selenarctos thibetanus japonicus Japanese black bear 1 

Selenarctos thibeianus ussuricus Korean black bear 2 

Euarctos americanus American black bear 2 

Ursus sp Alaskan brown bear 1 

Ursus arctos European brown bear 4 

Ursus arctos occidentalis Iranian brown bear 2 

Ursus gyas Alaskan Peninsula bear 2 

Ursus horribilis Grizzly bear 2 

Ursus silkensis Sitka brown bear 2 

Thalarctos maritimus Polar bear 1 

Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus mid- Hybrid bear 4 

dendorffi. 

Helarctos malayanus Malay sun bear 3 

Procyonidae : 

Bassariscus astutus Ringtail, or cacomistle 1 

Procyon lotor Raccoon 5 

Nasua nasua Red coatimundi 2 

Nasua narica Coatimundi 8 

Polos flavus Kinkajou 3 

Bassaricyon gabbi Olingo 2 

Mustelidae: 

Mustela frenata Eastern weasel 2 

Mustela eversmanni Ferret, albino 

Eira barbara Tayra 

Galiclis vitlata Grison 

Gulo luscus Wolverine 

Mephitis mephitis Common skunk 

Spilogale gracilis phenax California spotted skunk 

Lutra cinerea African small-clawed otter 

Pteronura brasiliensis South American flat-tailed otter 

Viverridae: 

Genetta genetta neumanii Genet 4 

Viverra tangalunga Ground civet 1 



150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

MAMMALS— Continued 
CARNivoRA — continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Viverridae — Continued 

Prionodon linsang Linsang 1 

Paguma larvata taivana. Formosan masked civet or kitsume. 2 

Ardiclis binturong Binturong 1 

Herpestes ichneumon African gray mongoose 2 

Atilax paludinosus Water civet 4 

Ichneumia albicauda White-tailed civet 1 

Cr j'ptoproctidae : 

Cryptoprocta ferox Fossa 1 

Hyaenida: 

Crocuta crocuta germinans Spotted hyena 2 

Hxjaena hyaena Striped hyena 2 

Felidae: 

Lynx canadensis Lynx 1 

Lynx rufus Bobcat 2 

Felis chaus Jungle cat 2 

Felis serval Serval cat 1 

Felis pajaros Pampas cat_. 1 

Felis pardalis Ocelot 3 

Felis wiedii tigrina Margay cat 3 

Felis concolor Puma 7 

„ ,. _ {Leopard 4 

Felts pardus. j^j^^l^ l^^p^^^ 2 

Felis leo Lion 6 

Felis tigris Bengal tiger 3 

Felis onca Jaguar 2 

Felis uncia — Snow leopard 3 

Acinonyx jubata Cheetah 2 

PINNIPEDIA 

Otariidae: 

Zalophus californianus Sea-lion 2 

Otaria flavescens Patagonian sea-lion 2 

TUBULIDENTATA 
Orycteropodidae: 

Orycteropus afer Aardvark 1 

PROBOSCIDEA 
Elephantidae: 

Loxodonta africana African elephant 1 

Elephas maximus Indian elephant 3 

PERISSODACTYLA 

Equidae: 

Equus przewalskii — Mongolian wild horse 1 

Equus kiang Asiatic wild ass, or kiang 1 

Equus asinus Burro, or donkey 1 

Equus burchelli boehmi Grant's zebra 5 

Equus grevy Grevy's zebra 3 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 151 

MAMMALS— Continued 
PERissODACTYLA — continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 
Tapiridae: 

Tapirus lerrestris Brazilian tapir 2 

Rhinocerotidae: 

Rhinoceros unicornis Great Indian one-horned rhinoc- 1 

eros. 

Ceratotherium sitnum White or square-mouthed rhinoc- 2 

eros. 

Diceros bicornis African rhinoceros 1 

ARTIODACTYLA 

Suidae: 

Sus scrofa European wild boar 1 

Tayassuidae: 

Pecari tajacu angulatus Collared peccary 2 

Hippopotamidae : 

Hippopotamus amphibius Hippopotamus 4 

Choeropsis liberiensis Pygmy hippopotamus 3 

Camelidae: 

Lama glama Llama 9 

Lama glama guanicoe G^anaco 3 

Lama pacos Alpaca 4 

Camelus bactrianus Bactrian camel 2 

Cervidae: 

-. , [Brown fallow deer 10 

^«"^« '^«^°- — - -— IWhite fallow deer 13 

Axis axis Axis deer. 5 

Cervus elaphus Red deer 5 

Cervus canadensis American elk 4 

Cervus nivpon Sika deer 5 

Elaphurus davidianus Pfere David's deer 2 

Odocoileus virginianus Virginia deer 7 

Odocoileus virginianus costaricensis . . Costa Rican deer 1 

GirafRdae: 

Okapia johnstoni Okapi_ 2 

Giraffa camelopardalis Nubian giraffe 4 

Antilocapridae: 

Aniilocapra americana Pronghorn antelope 1 

Bovidae: 

Taurotragus oryx Eland 4 

Anoa depressicornis Anoa 3 

Bos taurus West Highland, or Kyloe, cattle 3 

Bos indicus Zebu 1 

Poephagus grunniens Yak 3 

Bibos gaums Gaur 5 

Syncerus caffer African buffalo 1 

Bison bison American bison 3 

Bison bonasus European bison, or wisent 2 

Cephalophus nigrifrons Black-fronted duiker 1 

Saiga tatarica Saiga antelope 1 

492520—59 11 



152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

MAMMALS— Continued 
ARTiODACTYLA — continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 
Bovidae — Continued 

Hemilragus jemlahicus Tahr 2 

Pseudois nayaur _ Blue, or Bharal, sheep 1 

Ammotragus lervia Aoudad 6 

Ovis musimon.. Mouflon 2 

BIRDS 

STRUTHIONIFORMES 
Strutliionidae: 

Struthio camelus Ostrich 1 



RHEIFORMES 
Rheidae: 

Rhea americana Rhea 1 

CASUARIFORMES 
Casuariidae: 

Casuarius unappendiculatus One-wattled cassowary 1 

Dromiceiidae: 

Dromiceius novaehollandiae Emu 4 

SPHENISCIFORMES 
Spheniscidae: 

Aptenodytes patagonica King penguin 4 

Pygoscelis adeliae Adelie penguin 7 

Spheniscus humboldti Humboldt's penguin 2 

TINAMIFORMES 
Tinamidae: 

Tinamus major Chestnut-headed tinamou 1 

PELICANIFORMES 
Pelecanidae: 

Pelecanus onocrotalus.^ - Rose-colored pelican __ 2 

Pelecanus erythrorhynchus White pelican 6 

Pelecanus occidentalis occidentalis Brown pelican 1 

Phalacrocoracidae: 

Phalacrocorax auritus albociliatus Farallon cormorant 1 

CICONIIFORMES 

Balaenicipitidae: 

Balaenicipes rex Shoebill 1 

Ardeidae: 

Notophoyx novaehollandiae — White-faced heron 1 

Florida caerulea Blue heron 2 

Leucophoyx thula Snowy egret 3 

Nycticorax nycticorax hoactli Black- crowned night heron 24 

Tigrisoma lineatum Tiger bittern - 5 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 153 

BIRDS— Continued 
cicoNiiFORMES — Continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Cochleariidae: 

Cochlearius cochlearius Boat-billed heron 2 

Ciconiidae: 

Dissoura episcopus Woolly-necked stork 1 

Leptopiilus crumeniferus Marabou stork 1 

Leptoptilus javanicus Lesser adjutant 2 

Threskiornithidae: 

Myderia americana Wood ibis 1 

Threskiornis melanocephala Black-headed ibis 1 

Ajaia ajaja Roseate spoonbill 2 

Eudocimus alba White ibis 3 

Eudocimus ruber Scarlet ibis 3 

Phoenicopteridae: 

Phoenicopterus antiquorum Old World flamingo 1 

Phoenicopierus ruber Cuban flamingo 2 

Phoenicopterus chilensis Chilean flamingo 2 

ANSERIFORMES 

Anhimidae: 

Chauna torquata Crested screamer 4 

Anatidae: 

Cygnus cygmis Whooper swan 2 

Cygnus columbianus Whistling swan 4 

Cygnus buccinator Trumpeter swan 2 

Pledropterus gambensis Spur- winged goose 1 

Cereopsis novaehoUandiae Cape Barren goose 1 

Anseranus semipalmata Australian pied goose 1 

Chenopis atrata Black swan 3 

Chen caerulescens Blue goose 6 

Chen hyperborea Lesser snow goose 2 

Chen ailantica Snow goose 7 

Chen rossi Ross's goose 4 

Anser albifrons White-fronted goose 2 

Eulabeia indica Indian bar-headed goose 6 

Philacle canagica Emperor goose 2 

Branta canadensis Canada goose 13 

Branta canadensis canadensis X Chen Hybrid, Canada goose X blue 2 

caerulescens. goose. 

Branta canadensis occidentalis White-cheeked goose 7 

Branta canadensis minima Cackling goose 6 

Branta canadensis leucopareia Lesser Canada goose 7 

Chloephaga leucoptera Upland goose 1 

Dendrocygna autumnalis Black-bellied tree duck 8 

Sarkidiornis melanota Comb duck 1 

Tadorna tadorna European shell duck 1 

Anas platyrhynchos Mallard duck 14 

Anas platyrhynchos Mallard duck, albino 1 

Anas platyrhynchos domestica Peking duck 5 

Anas platyrhynchos X A. acuta Hybrid, mallard duck X American 1 

pintail duck. 



154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

BIRDS— Continued 
ANSERiFORMES — Continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Anatidae — Continued 

Anas poecilorhyncha Indian spotted-bill duck 1 

Anas rubripes Black duck 2 

Anas acuta Pintail duck 1 

Mareca americana Baldpate 9 

Aix sponsa Wood duck 5 

Aix sponsa X Aythya americana Hybrid, wood duck X red-headed 1 

duck. 

Dendronessa galericulata Mandarin duck 29 

Netta rufina Red-crested pochard 1 

Aythya valisineria Canvasback duck 9 

Ayihya americana Red-headed duck 10 

Aythya marila Greater scaup duck 4 

Aythya affinis Lesser scaup duck 7 

FALCONIFORMES 

Gathartidae: 

Sarcoramphus papa King vulture 1 

Coragyps atratus Black vulture 3 

Cathartes aura Turkey vulture 3 

Sagittariidae: 

Sagittarius serpentarius Secretarybird 2 

Accipitridae: 

Odontriorchis cayanensis Cayenne kite 1 

Milvus migrans parasitus African yellow-billed kite 2 

Haliastur indus Brahminy kite 1 

Buteo poecilochrous Buzzard eagle 1 

Buteo jamaicensis Red-tailed hawk 5 

Buteo swainsoni Swainson's hawk 2 

Leucopternis melanops Black-faced hawk 1 

Busarellus nigricollis Black-throated buzzard 1 

Morphnus guianensis Guianan crested eagle 1 

Harpia harpyja Harpy eagle 1 

Pithecophagus jefferyi Monkey-eating eagle 1 

Aquila chrysaetos canadensis Golden eagle 1 

Haliaeetus leucocephalus Bald eagle 7 

Gyps rueppelli Ruppell's vulture 2 

Pseudogyps africanus White-backed vulture 1 

Terathopius ecaudatus Bataleur eagle 1 

Falconidae: 

Micrastur semitorquatus Forest falcon 2 

Milvago chimango Chimango 2 

Polyborus plancus South American caracara 3 

Polyborous cheriway Audubon's caracara 1 

Falco mexicanus Prairie falcon 1 

Falco peregrinus anatum Duck hawk 1 

Falco sparverius Sparrow hawk 5 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 155 

BIRDS— Continued 

GALLIFORMES 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Megapodiidae: 

Alectura lalhami _. Brush turkey __ 1 

Cracidae : 

Nothocrax urumutum. . Nocturnal curassow 2 

Crax alberti Blue-cered curassow 2 

Crax globulosa Wattled curassow 2 

Pi-pile cumanensis White-headed piping guan 1 

Crax panamensis Panama curassow 1 

Phasianidae: 

Alectoris graeca Chukar quail 2 

Colinus virginianus Bobwhite quail 1 

Perdix perdix Hungarian partridge 2 

Coiurnix japonica Japanese king quail 1 

Gennaeus leucomelanus Nepal pheasant 2 

Gennaeus swinhoii Swinhoe's pheasant 2 

Gallus gallus Red junglefowl G 

_,, . ,,. . , f Ring-necked pheasant 4 

Pnasianus colchtcus torquatus Itctu-x • i j i, j o 

^ [White ring-necked pheasant 2 

Syrmaticus reevesi Reeves's pheasant 2 

Chrysolophus amhersiiae Lady Amherst pheasant 3 

Chrysolophus pictus Golden pheasant 9 

Argusianus argiis Argus pheasant 3 

_ . , , [Peafowl 5 

Pavo cristatus i m r i o 

[Blue peafowl 3 

Numididae: 

Acryllium vulturinum Vulturine guineafowl 1 

Meleagrididae : 

Agriocharis ocellata Ocellated turkey 1 

Meleagris gallopavo Wild turkey 2 

GRUIFORMES 

Gruidae: 

Grus leucogeranus Siberian crane 1 

Anthropoides virgo Demoiselle crane 1 

Psophiidae: 

Psophia crepitans Trumpeter 2 

Rallidae: 

Rallus Umicola Virginia rail 1 

Later alius leucopyrrhus Black-and-white crake 1 

Gallinula chloropus cachinnans Florida gallinule 1 

Porphyria poliocephalus South Pacific swamp hen 1 

Fulica americana American coot 2 

Eurypygidae: 

Europyga helias Sun bittern 2 

Cariamidae: 

Cariama cristaia Cariama, or seriama 1 



156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

BIRDS— Continued 

CHARADRIIFORMES 

Scientific name Commonname Number 

Jacanidae: 

Jacana spinosa hypomelaena Black jacana 1 

Haematopodidae : 

Haematopus ostralegits Oystercatcher 3 

Charadriidae : 

Belonopterus cayennensis South American lapwing 2 

Charadrius vociferus Killdeer 1 

Recurvirostridae : 

Himantopus himantopus mexicanus.- Black-necked stilt 1 

Burhinidae: 

Burhinus bistriatus South American thick-knee 2 

Stercorariidae: 

Catharacta maccormacki MacCormack's skua 4 

Laridae : 

Larus delawarensis Ring-billed gull 2 

Larus dominicanus Kelp gull 2 

Larus atricilla Laughing gull 1 

Larus novaehollandiae Silver gull 12 

COLUMBIFORMES 
Columbidae: 

Columba livia Homing pigeon 16 

Coluviba fasciata Band-tailed pigeon 2 

Columba nigrirostris Black-billed pigeon 1 

Zenaidura macroura Mourning dove 3 

Zenaida asiatica White-winged dove 2 

Streptopelia decaoclo Ring-necked dove 16 

Strepiopelia tranquebarica Blue-headed ring dove 2 

Geopelia cuneata Diamond dove 1 

Gallicolumba luzonica Bleeding-heart dove 2 

Goura victoria Crowned pigeon 2 

PSITTACIFORMES 
Psittacidae: 

Nestor notabilis Kea parrot 2 

DomiceUa garrula Red lory 1 

Calyptorhynchus magnificus Banksian cockatoo 2 

Callocephalon fimbriatuvi Gang-gang cockatoo 4 

Kakatoe alba White cockatoo 2 

Kakatoe ducrops Solomon Islands cockatoo 1 

Kakatoe galerita Sulphur-crested cockatoo 6 

Kakatoe sanguineus Bare-eyed cockatoo 5 

Kakatoe moluccensis Great red-crested cockatoo 2 

Kakatoe leadbeateri Leadbeater's cockatoo 8 

Nymphicus hollandicus Cockatiel 5 

Ara araurauna Yellow-and-blue macaw 3 

Ara chloroptera ^__ Red-and-blue macaw 3 

Ara macao Red-blue-and-yellow macaw 3 

Aratinga canicularis Petz's parakeet 1 

Aratinga pertinax Rusty-cheeked parrot 3 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 157 

BIRDS— Continued 
psiTTACiFORMEs — Continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 
Psittaci dae — C on tin ued 

Brotogcris jugularis Tovi parakeet 1 

Amazona aestiva Blue-fronted parrot 1 

Amazona auropalliaia Yellow-naped parrot 3 

Amazona fins chi Finsch's parrot 1 

A^nazona leucocephala Cuban parrot 1 

Amazona hodini Red-fronted parrot 1 

Amazona ochrocephala Yellow-headed parrot 1 

Amazona oratrix Double yellow-headed parrot 3 

Psittacula eupatria Red-shouldered parakeet 1 

Psittaciila fasciata Moustache parakeet 1 

Polytelis swainsoni Barraband's parakeet 2 

Agapornis roseicollis Rosy-faced lovebird 1 

Agapornis fischeri Yellow-collared lovebird 1 

Agapornis per sonata Masked lovebird 6 

Platycercus elegans Pennant's parakeet 3 

Platycercus eximius Rosella parakeet 1 

Melopsittacus undulatus Grass parakeet Many 

CUCULIFORMES 

Musophagidae: 

Tauraco persa Purple turaco 1 

Tauraco corythaix South African turaco 1 

Crinifer africanus Plantain-eater 2 

Cuculidae: 

Eudynamys scolopacea Koel 1 

Geococcyx californianus Roadrunner 1 

STRIGIFORMES 

Tytonidae: 

Tyto alba pratincola Barn owl 2 

Strigidae: 

Otus asio Screech owl 1 

Bubo virginianus Great horned owl 5 

Bubo virginianus elutus Colombian great horned owl 1 

Ketupa ketupu Malay fishing owl 1 

Nydea nyctea Snowy owl 4 

Strix varia varia Barred owl 10 

TROGONIFORMES 
Trogonidae: 

Priotelus temnurus Cuban trogan 1 



CORACHFORMES 
Alcedinidae: 

Dacelo gigas Kookaburra 3 

Momotidae: 

Momotus lessoni Motmot 2 

Coraciidae: 

Coracias benghalensis Indian roller 2 



158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 58 

BIRDS— Continued 
coRAciiFORAiES — Continued 

Scientijii. aame Common name Number 

Upupidae: 

Upupa epops Hoopoe 2 

Bucerotidae: 

Tockus birostris Grey hornbill 2 

Aceros undulatus Malayan hornbill 1 

Aceros plicatus Wreathed hornbill 1 

Anthracoceros malabaricus Pied hornbill 1 

Bycanistes suhcylindricus Black-and-white casqued hornbill. 2 

Ceratogymna atrata Black-casqued hornbill 2 

Buceros hydrocorax Philippine hornbill 1 

Bucorvus dbyssinicus Abyssinian ground hornbill 1 

PICIFORMES 

Capitonidae: 

Megalaima zeylonica Streaked barbet 2 

Cyanops asiatica Asiatic red-fronted barbet 1 

Ramphastidae: 

Aulacorhynchus alhivittatus White-lined toucanet 1 

Pteroglossus torquatus Ringed aracari toucanet 1 

Ramphastos culminatus White-breasted toucan 1 

Ramphastos carinatus Sulphur-breasted toucan 2 

Ramphastos swainsoni Swainson's toucan 1 

Ramphastos toco Toco toucan 1 

Picidae: 

Colaptes auratus Yellow-shafted flicker 2 

Melanerpes cruentatus Little black woodpecker 2 

PASSERIFORMES 

Cotingidae: 

Rupicola rupicola Orange cock-of-the rock 1 

Rupicola sanguinolenta Scarlet cock-of-the rock 1 

Tyrannidae: 

Pitangus sulphuratus Kiskadee flycatcher 1 

Alaudidae: 

Alauda arvensis Skylark 2 

Corvidae: 

Cyanociita crisiata Bluejay 2 

Cyanocitta stelleri Steller's jay 4 

Pica pica hudsonica Magpie 9 

Pica nuttalli Yellow-billed magpie 1 

Cissa chinensis Chinese cissa 1 

Urocissa caerulea Formosan red-billed pie 2 

Dendrocitta formosae Asiatic tree pie 2 

Corvus corax principalis Raven 1 

Corvus alba African white-necked crow 2 

Corvus brachyrhynchos Crow 1 

Corvus insolens Indian crow 2 

Cracticidae: 

Gymnorhina hypoleuca White-backed piping crow 1 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 159 

BIRDS— Continued 
PASSERiFORMES — Continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Ptilonorhynchidae: 

Plilonorhynchus violaceus Satin bowerbird 2 

Timaliidae: 

Pomatorhinus horsfieldii Indian scimitar babbler 1 

Pomatorhinus erythrogenys Rusty-cheeked scimitar babbler 1 

Heterophasia capistrata Black-headed sibia 1 

Sittidae: 

Sitia castanea Chestnut-bellied nuthatch 2 

Sitta carolinensis White-breasted nuthatch 2 

Pycnonotidae: 

Pycnonotus cafer Red-vented bulbul 1 

Pycnonotus leucogenys White-cheeked bulbul 1 

Turdidae: 

Turdus grayi Bonaparte's thrush 1 

Turdus migratorius Albino robin 1 

Thamnolaea cinnemomeiventris Cliff chat 2 

Sturnidae: 

Acridotheres tristis Jungle mynah 1 

Lamprocclius purpureus Burchell's glossy starling 3 

Spreo supcrhus Tricolored or superb starling 1 

Sturnus malabarica Gray-headed mynah 1 

Pastor roseus Rose-colored pastor 1 

Sturnus vulgaris Starling 1 

Oracula religiosa indica Lesser hill mynah 1 

Gracula religiosa robusta Nias wattled mynah 1 

Gracula religiosa Hill mjmah 3 

Nectariniidae: 

Nedarinia johnstoni Dark malachite sunbir d 1 

Ploceidae: 

Ploceus baya Baya vv^eaver 9 

Plocevs vitelUnus Vitelline masked weaver 3 

Quelea quelea Red-billed weaver 1 

Euplectes orix Red bishop weaver 2 

Eupledes afra Yellow-crowned bishop weaver 6 

Diairopura procne Giant whydah 5 

Steganura paradisaea Paradise whydah 3 

Ploceipasser mahali Mahali weaver 1 

Munia oryzivora Java finch 18 

Amadina fasciata Cut-throat weaver finch 5 

Lonchura maja White-headed nun 9 

Estrilda angolensis Cordon bleu finch 1 

Estrilda coerulescens Lavender finch 2 

Estrilda astrild Red-eared waxbill 1 

Estrilda troglodytes Common waxbill 4 

Zosterops palpebrosa White-eye 2 

Estrilda amandava Strawberry finch 9 

Poephila guttata castanotis Zebra finch 26 

r, , ., ,,. f Black-headed Gouldian finch 2 

Poephila goulatae '^/-, ,j. ^ , , 

^ " [Gouldian finch 1 



160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

BIRDS— Continued 
PASSERIFORMES — Continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Icteridae: 

Xanthornus decumanus Crested oropendola 1 

Psomocolax oryzivora Rice grackle 1 

Tangavius armenti Colombian red-eyed cowbird 1 

Molothrus bonariensis Silky cowbird 1 

Quiscalus quiscula Purple grackle 1 

Icterus galhula Baltimore oriole 1 

Icterus giraudi Giraud's oriole 1 

Icterus icterus Troupial 1 

Agelaius icier ocephalus Yellow-headed marshbird 1 

Thraupidae: 

Calospiza ruficapilla Brown-headed tanager 1 

Thraupis leucoptera White-edged tanager 1 

Thraupia cana Blue tanager 1 

Ramphocelus dimidiatus Crimson tanager 1 

Ramphocelus passerinii Passerini's tanager 2 

Cissopis leveriana Black-and-white tanager 2 

Fringillidae: 

Saltator maximus Buff-throated sal tator 1 

Paroaria gularis nigro-genis Black-eared cardinal 2 

Paroaria cucullata Brazilian cardinal 1 

Spiza americana Dickcissel sparrows 7 

Hesperiphona vespertina Evening grosbeak 3 

Carpodacus mexicanus frontalis House finch 1 

Sporophila gutturalis Yellow-billed finch 8 

Carduelis cardiielis European goldfinch 4 

Carduelis carduelis X Serinus European goldfinch X canary 1 

canarius. 

Serinus canarius Canary 2 

Sicalis luteola Saflfron finch 7 

Melospiza melodia Song sparrow 1 

REPTILES 

LORICATA 
Crocodyhdae: 

Crocodylus niloticus African crocodile 1 

Osteolaemus tetraspis Broad-nosed crocodile 3 

Crocodylus cataphractus Narrow-nosed croco dile 1 

Crocodylus porosus Salt-water crocodile 1 

Crocodylus acutus American crocodile 2 

Alligator mississipiensis Alligator 15 

Alligator sinesis Chinese alligator 2 

Caiman sclerops Caiman 5 

Tomistoma schlegeli Gavial (false) 1 

SAURIA 
Gekkonidae: 

Gecko smithi Giant gecko 1 

Tarentola mauritanica Gecko 2 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 161 

REPTILES— Continued 
SAURiA — continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Chamaeleonidae : 

Chamaeleo melleri Meller's chameleon 3 

Charnaeleo dilepis Flap-necked chameleon 12 

Iguanidae: 

Iguana iguana Common iguana 2 

Anolis carolinensis American anole Many 

Anolis cristatellus Little crested anole 1 

Phrynosoma cornutum Texas horned lizard 10 

Sceloporus undulatus Fence lizard 3 

Sauromalus obesus Chuckwalla 1 

Ctenosaura acanihura Spiny-tailed lizard 1 

Cyclura siejnegeri Mona Island iguana _ 1 

Scincidae: 

Mabuya multifasciata Malayan skink 6 

Egernia luctuosa Mourning skink 2 

Egernia whitei White's skink 7 

Eumeces fasciatus Greater five-lined skink 5 

Scincus officinalis Sand skink 8 

Trachysaurus rugosus Stump-tailed lizard 1 

Gerrhosauridae : 

Gerrhosaurus major Plated lizard 7 

Teiidae : 

Twpinambis nigropunctatus Black tegu . 1 

Tupinambis teguixin Yellow tegu 1 

Anguidae: 

Gerrhonotus muUicarinatua Alligator lizard 1 

Ophisaurus veniralis Glass lizard 2 

Helodermatidae : 

Heloderma suspectum Gila monster 3 

rr J J 7 .J [Beaded lizard (black phase) 1 

Heloderma horridum s,, .,,,,., o 

[ Mexican beaded lizard 2 

Varauidae : 

Varanus salvaior Indian monitor lizard 1 

Varanus varius Australian lace monitor 2 

Varanus albigularis Cape monitor 1 

Zonuridae: 

Zonurus giganteus Spiny lizard 1 

SERPENTES 
Boidae: 

Constrictor c. constrictor Boa constrictor 2 

Constrictor constrictor imperator Emperor boa 1 

Eunectes murinus Anaconda 2 

Epicrates cenchria Rainbow boa 4 

Epicrates angulifer Cuban tree boa 8 

Boa enydris enydris Tree boa 1 

Boa enydris cookii Cook's tree boa 1 

Eryx thebaicus Sharp-tailed aand boa 1 

Python regius Ball python 6 



162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

REPTILES— Continued 
SERPENTEs — continued 

Scientific namt Common name Number 

B oidae — C ontinued 

Python sebae African python 1 

Python molurus Indian rock python 2 

Python reticulatus Regal python 2 

Colubridae: 

Lampropeltis getulus getulua King snake 2 

LampropeUis getulus holbrooki Speckled king snake 2 

Lampropeliis getulus calif orniae California king snake 3 

LampropeUis getulus floridana Florida king snake 2 

LampropeUis getulus splendida Sonoran king snake 1 

LampropeUis doliata ssp Scarlet king snake 1 

LampropeUis doliata triangulum Milk snake 1 

LampropeUis rhomhomaculata Mole snake 1 

LampropeUis doliata polyzonua Tropical king snake 1 

Thamnophis sir talis ordinata Garter snake 6 

Thamnophis sirtalis proximo Ribbon snake 1 

Matrix sipedon V/ater snake 4 

Matrix rhombifera Diamond-backed water snake 2 

Matrix taxispilota Brown water snake 1 

Matrix cydopion floridana Green water snake 1 

Matrix eryihrogaster Red-bellied water snake 2 

Matrix pictiventris Florida water snake 3 

Coluber constrictor constrictor Northern black racer 1 

Drymarchon corais couperi Indigo snake 1 

_, , , ,, -L 1 . [pilot black snake, albino 2 

Elpahe obsoleta obsoleta Sp., + u, i ,, c 

[^xiiot' DiacK snaKe o 

Elaphe obsoleta confinis Southern pilot black snake 1 

Elaphe guttata emoryi Corn snake 2 

Elaphe quadrivittata Chicken snake 4 

Elaphe taeniura Asiatic rat snake 4 

Elaphe carinata Lesser Indian rat snake 1 

Abastor erythrogrammus Rainbow snake 4 

Boaedon lineatum African house snake, or musaga 2 

Diadophis punctatus edwardsii Ring-necked snake 1 

Opheodrys major Formosan green snake 11 

Storeria dekayi DeKay's snake 2 

Dryophis prasinus Grass-green whip snake 1 

Ptyas mucosus Dhaman, or greater Indian rat 

snake 4 

Spilotes pullatus Black and yellow rat snake 1 

Dispholidus typus Boomslang 1 

Simocephalus capensis File snake 1 

Chrysopelea pelias Twin-barred tree snake 1 

Elapidae: 

Maja naja Indian cobra 4 

Maja naja atra Taiwan cobra 2 

Maja melanoleuca Black cobra 1 

Maja haje Egyptian cobra 3 

Bungarus multicincius Kraits 3 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 163 

EEPTILES— Continued 
SERPENTEs — coiitinued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Viperidae: 

Vipera russellii Russell's viper 1 

Crotalidae: 

Ancisirodon contoririx laticinctus Broad-banded copperhead 5 

Ancistrodon piscivorus Water moccasin or cottonmouth 4 

Ancisirodon piscivorus leucostowa Western water moccasin 1 

Ancisirodon acutus Asian snorkel viper 3 

Trimeresur^is wagleri Pit viper 1 

Trimeresurus gramineus Palm viper 11 

Trimeresurus popeorum Pope's pit viper 1 

Trimeresurus elegans Mamushi, or Asiatic viper 2 

Trimeresurus flavoviridis Habu, or Asiatic viper 4 

Trimeresurus ohinavensis Habu, or Asiatic viper 1 

Croialus adamanieus Eastern diamond-back rattlesnake. 1 

Croialus atrox Western diamond-back rattlesnake. 18 

Crotalus horridus Timber rattlesnake 1 

CHELONIA 

Chelydridae: 

Chelydra serpentina Snapping turtle 12 

Macroclemys temminckii Alligator snapping turtle 5 

Kinosternidae: 

Sternotherus odoratus Musk turtle 3 

Kinosiernon suhruhrum Mud turtle 5 

Kinosiernum crueniatum South American mud turtle 4 

Emydidae: 

Clemmys guttata Spotted turtle 1 

Clemmys insculpia Wood turtle 7 

Clemmys marmorata marmorata Pacific pond turtle 1 

Cuona amboinensis Kura kura box turtle 1 

Emys orbicularis European pond turtle 3 

Emydura kreffti Krefft's turtle 3 

Eimjdura macquaria Murray turtle 8 

Terrapene Carolina Box turtle Many 

Terrapene Carolina iriunguis Three-toed box turtle 3 

Terrapene ornaia. ornata Western box turtle 2 

Terrapene camlina bauri Florida box turtle 2 

Malaclemys terrapin Diamondback turtle 4 

Graptcmys geographica Map turtle 3 

Graptemys barbouri Barbour's turtle 7 

Graptemys pseudogeographica False map turtle __ 4 

Chrysemys picta Painted turtle 31 

Psuedemys scripta callirostris South American red-lined turtle 8 

Pseudemys scripta troostii Cumberland turtle 3 

Pseudemys scripta elegans Mobile turtle __ 12 

Pseudemys scripta ssp Yellow-bellied turtle 24 

Pseudemys floridana Florida water turtle 15 

Pseudemys rubriventris Red-bellied turtle 9 

Pseudemys ornata Central American turtle 2 



164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

REPTILES— Continued 
CHELONIA — continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Emydidae — Continued 

Pseudemys decussata Cuban water turtle 1 

Batagur baska Indian fresh-water turtle 1 

Testudinae: 

Gophenis agassizi Desert tortoise 1 

Testudo pardalis Leopard tortoise 1 

Testudo elephantina Giant Aldabra turtle 2 

Testudo ephippium Duncan Island turtle 3 

Testudo tabulata South American turtle 4 

Testudo vicina Galdpagos turtle 2 

Trionychidae: 

Trionyx ferox spinifera Eastern soft-shelled turtle 3 

Trionyx ferox Florida soft-shelled turtle 2 

Trionyx triunguis African soft-shelled turtle 2 

Pelomedusidae: 

Pelomedusa galeata African water turtle 2 

Pelusios nigricans African black mud turtle 2 

Podocnemis unifilis Amazon spotted turtle 12 

Chelidae: 

Chelodina longicollis Australian side-necked turtle 3 

Hydromedusa tedifera Small side-necked turtle 2 

Mesudemmys gibba South American gibba turtle 3 

Phrynops geoffroyana Geoffroy's side-necked turtle 1 

Phrynops geoffroyana hilarii Large side-necked turtle 12 

Platemys platycephala Flat-headed turtle 11 

Batrachemys nasuta South Ameri can side-necked turtle, 2 

AMPHIBIANS 

CAUDATA 
Amphiumidae: 

Amphiuma means Congo eel 6 

Ambystomidae: 

Ambystoma tigrinum Tiger salamander 1 

Salamandridae: 

Diemictylus pyrrhogaster Red-beUied or Japanese newt 14 

Notopthalmus viridescens Red-spotted or common newt 11 

SALIENTIA 
Bufonidae: 

B7ifo americanus American toad 2 

Bufo blombergii Forest toad 2 

Bufo marinus Giant toad 4 

Bufo paracnemis Rococo toad 1 

Bufo peltocephalus Cuban toad 7 

Pipidae: 

Pipa pipa Surinam toad _ 29 

Leptodactylidae: 

Ceratophrys calcarata Colombian horned frog 2 

Ceratophrys ornata Argentine horned frog 1 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 165 

AMPHIBIANS— Continued 
SALiENTiA — continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Hylidae: 

Hyla clnerea Green tree frog 1 

Hyla versicolor Gray tree frog 3 

Microhylidae: 

Microhyla carolinensis Narrow-mouthed toad 1 

Ranidae: 

Rana adspersa African bull frog 10 

Rana catesbeiana American buU frog 1 

Rana clamitans Green frog 20 

Rana pipiens Leopard frog Many 

Rhacophoridae: 

Hylambates maculatus African flash tree frog 4 

Dendrobatidae: 

Dendrobates auratus Black poison-arrow frog 1 

Dendrobates tindorius Green poison-arrow frog 1 

Dendrobates typographus Yellow poison-arrow frog 2 

ARTHROPODS 

DECAPODA 
Cenobitidae: 

Coenobita clypeatus Land hermit crab 35 

ARANEAE 
Theraphosidae: 

Eurypelma hentzii Tarantula 1 

Theridiidae: 

Latrodedtis macians Black-widow spider 1 

SCORPIONIDA 
Vejovidae: 

Vejovis spinigerus Stripe-tailed scorpion 1 

ORTHOPTERA 
Blattidae: 

Periplaneta australasiae Australian cockroach Many 

MOLLUSKS 

PULMONATA 
Limnaeidae: 

Helisoma trivolvis Pond snails Many 

FISHES 

OSTARIOPHTSI 

Characidae: 

Metynnis rooseveltii Metynnis 2 

Gymnotidae: 

Stemarchella schotti African knifefish 2 



166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1968 

FISHES— Continued 
OSTARIOPHYSI — Continued 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Cyprinidae: 

Brachydanio rerio Zebra danio-fish 14 

Barhus everetii Clown barb 1 

Tanichihys alhonubes White Cloud Mountain fish 6 

Electrophoridae : 

Electrophorus electricus Electric eel 1 

Cobitidae : 

Acanthophthalmus semicinctus Kuhlii loach 1 

Doradidae: 

Acanthodoras spinosissimus Talking catfish 1 

Callichthyidae: 

Plecosiomus plecostomus Armored catfish 2 

Corydoras hastatus Corydoras 2 

Cory dor as paleatus Corydoras scavenger catfish 1 

CYPRINODONTES 
Poeciliidae: 

Gambusia punctata Blue gambusia 2 

Mollienisia latipinna Black molly 3 

Lehistes reticulatus Guppy 10 

Lebistes reticulatus Flag-tailed guppy 10 

Xiphophorus maculatus Platys or moonfish 1 

LABYRINTHICI 
Anabantidae: 

Trichogaster trichopterus Blue gourami 1 

Anabas testudineus Climbing perch 4 

PERCOMORPHI 
Cichlidae: 

Haplochromis multicolor Egyptian mouthbreeder 1 

Tilapia sparrmani Peacock cichlid 3 

Pterophyllum eimekei Angelfish 5 

PLECTOGNATHI 
Lepidosirenidae : 

Protopterus annectens African lungfish 1 

Lepidosiren paradoxa South American lungfish 1 

GIRAFFES 

During the past 20 years, the National Zoological Park has been 
veiy successful in breeding giraffes and gaur. A summary of both 
species is presented here, in order that it may be made a part of the 
permanent record. 

The first giraffes to come to the Zoo were a pair of Nubian giraffes 
obtained from the Game Department of the Sudan by Dr. William M. 
Mann on the Smithsonian Institution- Chrysler Expedition to East 



Secretary's Report. I'^iS 



PLATE 9 




Linsang — first one to be exhibited in the Western Hemisphere. Sent to the National 
Zoological Park by Lt. Col. Robert Traub, Kuala Lumpur, Malaj^a. 







Snow leopard kitten, 6 weeks old. This is the first of this species born in the Western 
Hemisphere. Photographs by Randolph Routt, courtesy of the Washington Evening Star. 



Secretary's Report, 1958 



Plate 10 




Indian elephant, 14-\(-ai-old male, displays lus clLinal hiaces devised by Keeper Roger 
McDonald to prevent the tips of the tusks from growing together. Photograph by 
Francis Routt, courtesy of the Washington Evening Star. 




Trumpeter swans, on deposit from the Fish and Wildlife Service. Largest of the swan 
family, these birds have been saved from extinction in the United States by the careful 
protection of the Fish and Wildlife Service. Photograph by Wellncr Streets, courtesy of 
the Washington Daily News. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 167 

Africa in 1926. Known as Hi-Boy and Dot, they both succumbed to 
a kidney infection, one after a year, the other 3 montlis later. 

There were no more giraffes in the collection until 1937, when the 
Smithsonian Institution-National Geographic Society Expedition to 
the Netherlands East Indies stopped in the Sudan on the Avay home 
and acquired four yomig ones, a pair of dark-spotted and a pair of 
light-spotted Nubian giraffes. The dark ones became known as Kitty 
and Bob. Bob died in 1956, but Kitty is still alive in the Zoo. The 
other pair were named Niclcy (after a 10-year-old journalist who had 
campaigned for "giraffes for the National Zoo") and Nageoma, for 
National Geographic Magazine. Nicky died in December 1945, and 
Nageoma in July 1946. 

The breeding record follows : 

Nicky and Nageoma 
March 4, 1945, female, Helen. Named for granddaughter of Dr. Gilbert Gros- 

venor, President, National Geographic Society. Still in Zoo. 
Boh and Kitty 

January 4, 1945, female, stillborn. 

August 22, 1946, female, Twiga. Still in the Zoo. 

October 2, 1948, male, Bedello (named after Walter Bedell Smith, who was 

the first visitor to see him). Sent to the Zoo in Fort Worth, Tex,, April 18, 

1952. 
September 25, 1950, female. Sent to Taronga Park Zoo, Sydney, Australia, 

January 3, 1952. 
December 29, 1952, female, Harriet. Sent to Honolulu Zoo, Hawaii, May 27, 

1953. 
February 23, 1955, female, Amelia. Gestation period 450 days. Sent to Cats- 
kill Game Farm, Catskill, N.Y., October 6, 1955. 
January 12, 1957, male. Doc. Gestation period 454 days. Still in the Zoo. 
BoT) and Helen 

February 3, 1951, female. Died February 9, 1951. 

June 17, 1952, male, Harry. Died December 13, 1952. 

March 29, 1954, female, Astrid. Gestation period 450 days. Sent to Catskill 

Game Farm, Catskill, N.Y., July 29, 1954. 
September 16, 1956, male, Thomas. Gestation period 459 days. Died March 

28, 1957. 
Boh and Twiga 

December 22, 1951, male, stillborn. 

April 28, 1954, male, Frank. Gestation period 446 days. Sent to Catskill 

Game Farm, Catskill, N.Y., July 29, 1954. 
April 25, 1956, female, Marta. Gestation period 451 days. Sent to Catskill 

Game Farm, Catskill, N.Y., August 20, 1956; now at "Africa U.S.A." Boca 

Raton, Fla. 

A pair of reticulated giraffes about 3 years old were purchased 
June 21, 1939. The female died April 24, 1942 ; the male, Kuf us, died 
November 13, 1956. They left no offspring. 

492520—59 12 



168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

GAUR 

A pair of gaur were obtained in 1937 from Mysore, India, by the 
Smithsonian Institution-National Geographic Society Expedition to 
the East Indies. Their breeding record follows : 

March 14, 1940, male. Sent to Philadelphia Zoological Gardens, Philadelphia, 

Pa., April 25, 1944. 
September 3, 1941, male. Died May 31, 1942. 
October 20, 1942, female. Died June 16, 1944. 
December 23, 1943, male. Died February 19, 1946. 
December 23, 1945, female. Died May 7, 1946. 
February 10, 1946, male. Died May 4, 1947. 
May 10, 1947, female.' 
July 18, 1948, male.' 

February 2, 1950, female. Exchanged May 25, 1955. 
November 1, 1952, female, offspring of young pair. 
August 12, 1953, male. Exchanged May 25, 1955. 

August 22, 1954, female. Sent to St. Louis Zoo, St. Louis, Mo., April 26, 1956. 
June 13, 1955, male. Sent to St. Louis Zoo, St. Louis, Mo., April 26, 1956. 
February 12, 1956, male. Still in the Zoo. 

March 5, 1957, female. Offspring of young pair. Died March 7, 1957. 
March 18, 1958, male. Offspring of young pair. Still in the Zoo. 

The high mortality rate is due, in almost every case, to the excitable 
temperament of these animals. The old male died on May 26, 1957, 
apparently of senility. The old female is still living, but she has not 
accepted the young male. 

FINANCES 

Funds for the operation of the National Zoological Park are appro- 
priated annually under the District of Columbia appropriation act. 
The appropriation for the fiscal year 1958 totaled $833,000, which in- 
cluded a supplemental appropriation of $49,000. This was an in- 
crease of $113,000 over fiscal year 1957. The increase consisted of 
$49,000 for the conversion of keeper positions ; $36,300, contributions 
to the Civil Service Retirement Fund ; $22,595 to establish seven new 
positions, and $5,105 to cover costs of reallocations. Of the $833,000 
appropriated, $619,165 was for salaries, leaving a balance of $213,835 
for the operation of the Zoo. Included in this balance were major 
operational expenditures amounting to $177,513, consisting of $65,000 
for animal food ; $20,300 for fuel for heating ; $29,325 for materials, 
building construction and repair; $34,218 for Civil Service Eetire- 
ment Fund; $12,750 for purchase of animals; $8,900 for electricity; 
$5,000 for veterinarian equipment and supplies ; and $2,000 for Fed- 
eral Employees Group Life Insurance. The balance of $35,872 in 
operation funds was expended for other items including freight, tele- 



1 Kept at N. Z. P. for breeding ; referred to hereafter as young pair. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 169 

phone, telegraph, and postal services, sundry supplies, uniforms, gaso- 
line, road repair, equipment replacement, and purchase of new equip- 
ment. 

PERSONNEL 

After serving as Acting Director for 17 months. Dr. Theodore H. 
Keed vs^as named Director on March 12, 1958. At the same time, J. 
Lear Grimmer, who had been Assistant Director, was named Asso- 
ciate Director. 

James F, Wright, Y.M.D., a graduate of the University of Penn- 
sylvania, was appointed to fill the position of veterinarian. He comes 
to the Zoo with experience in private veterinary practice as well as 
service with the Department of Agriculture's Plum Island Animal 
Disease Laboratory, in Long Island, N.Y. He has a makeshift hos- 
pital in the Park, which it is hoped may some day be replaced with a 
more modern structure. His report for the year may be found on 
pages 171-174. 

As of the beginning of the fiscal year, the animal keepers were con- 
verted from the GS classification to Wage Board. They are now on 
a pay level comparable with other skilled trades, such as carpenters 
and plumbers. It is believed that the present starting wage will at- 
tract good men and that the salary will induce them to stay in the Zoo. 

There are 144 authorized positions at the Zoo, divided as follows : 
Administrative office 13, an increase of one property and supply 
clerk; animal department 53 (48 keepers, cook, exterminator, 2 labor- 
ers, and an increase of 1 storekeeper) ; police 23, an increase of 2; 
mechanical department 50, an increase of 2 laborers and 1 store- 
keeper; grounds department 5. 

There has been a reorganization in the animal department. Ralph 
Norris is now head keeper and Malcolm Davis, who has had 30 years 
experience in the Zoo, is now associate head keeper. William Widman 
is senior keeper in the bird division, Charles Thomas in the division of 
large mammals, Bert Barker in the division of small mammals, and 
Mario DePrato in the reptile division. In the police department three 
men were promoted to the rank of Sergeant : Donald B. Bell, Earl A. 
King, and Aubrey L. Canter. In the mechanical shop, William G. 
Modena was made assistant superintendent of maintenance and 
construction. 

INFORMATION AND EDUCATION 

The Zoo continues to handle a large correspondence with persons all 
over the world who write for information regarding animals. From 
every part of this country citizens write to the Zoo as a national insti- 
tution. Telephone calls come in constantly, asking for identification of 
animals, proper diets, or treatment of disease. Visitors to the office as 
well as to the animal exhibits are constantly seeking information. 



170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Because of the ever-increasing demand for information concerning 
the care of animals in captivity, a series of 11 mimeographed leaflets 
has been written covering the care and feeding of the various animal 
families, ranging from invertebrates to primates. The leaflets are 
used to supplement correspondence and telephone mquiries on pet 
care and have proved successful in providing better service to the 
public. 

The Associate Director gave five 4-hour sessions of training to six 
senior Boy and Girl Scouts. These youngsters are now qualified to 
guide troops of younger Scouts when they visit the Zoo. 

The Director spoke before 6 civic clubs, 2 school groups, and 5 church 
groups ; he also appeared on a television program and was interviewed 
on a radio program. He was coauthor, with Dr. Samuel W. Thompson, 
of "Toxoplasmosis in a Swamp Wallaby," published in the Journal of 
the American Veterinary Medical Association, December 15, 1957. 

Malcolm Davis, associate head keeper, spoke before four civic clubs 
on "Penguins and Antarctica" and also showed slides to a school group. 
He has contributed articles and book reviews to All-Pets Magazine, 
the Audubon Magazine, the American Racing Pigeon News, the 
Aviculturist's Gazette, the Sentinel, and the Journal of Mammalogy. 
A group of rocky islands off Budd Coast, Antarctica, has been named 
Davis Islets in recognition of a biological survey made there by Mr. 
Davis in 1948 when he went to the South Pole with the U.S. Navy 
Expedition. 

Mario DePrato made a collecting trip in the Dismal Swamp, Va., 
bringing back a number of interesting reptiles for the Zoo. William A. 
Xanten, Jr., a keeper in the reptile house, contributed a number of 
snakes and turtles obtained while he was on vacation in Florida. 

William Widman, senior keeper in the birdhouse, spent 2 weeks in 
the Philadelphia Zoological Park, studying methods practiced there; 
and Bernard Gallagher, keeper in the small-mammals division, spent 
a week of official time in the Detroit Zoo, working and observing. 

Ordinarily the Zoo does not conduct guided tours of the Park, but 
exceptions were made for groups of physically handicapped children 
who visited the Zoo. One group was from the District of Columbia 
Health School, whose children were brought by the Kiwanis Club, 
and another from the Silver Spring Intermediate School. Six chil- 
dren from the Pre-School for the Blind, Alexandria, Va., were brought 
by the Lions Club and were allowed to feel small animals and harmless 
reptiles. The District of Columbia Society for Crippled Children 
brought a group of 30. In all cases police and keepers were assigned 
to assist in showing the young students the exhibits. 

Conducted tours were also given to a group of 211 biology students 
and 6 faculty members of Randolph-Macon Woman's College, Lynch- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 171 

burg, Va., and to 40 boys and girls who were winners in the annual 
Westinghouse Science Talent Search. 

Wliile the Zoo does not conduct a regular research program as 
such, every effort is made to study the animals and to improve their 
health, housing, and diet in any way possible. 

VETERINARIAN'S REPORT 

One of the most important activities of the veterinary department 
has been the application of the projectile type of syringe as an ad- 
junct to therapy. The original work on this equipment was done 
at the University of Georgia and the Georgia Fish and Game Com- 
mission. They produced a temporary paralysis in wild deer, using 
nicotine alkaloid either alone or in combination with thiopental so- 
dium. An attempt was made to adapt this method to the zoological 
collection, but met with very little success except in deer. The ap- 
paratus is used with little disturbance to animals in their captive 
habitat. Its most effective use is in the administration of antibiotics, 
antiserums, ataraxics (sedatives, narcotics, tranquilizers), and vac- 
cines. With this type of therapy it is not necessary to rope, man- 
handle, trap, cage, or exhaust either animals or keepers to provide 
parenteral medication. It is successfully used both inside and outside 
of buildings and in small lots and large paddocks. As the operator 
seldom needs other help, considerable saving in man-hours and an- 
imals results. The following species have been successfully treated 
with this projectile type of syringe: elk, zebra, yak, tiger, pygmy 
hippopotamus, British Park bull, Saiga antelope, camel, elephant, 
kangaroo, bear, deer, Nile hippopotamus, and giraffe. The full de- 
tails of these treatments are contained in a paper to be published 
later. 

A severe case of necrotic stomatitis developed in the Zoo's bull elk 
during the winter, which prevented him from eating the usual rations. 
Special diet and the use of the projectile syringe are credited with 
effecting a cure. He is now in excellent health. 

The youngest female giraffe was successfully treated with the pro- 
jectile syringe method for bowel impaction and inappetence of 7 days' 
duration. Lacking this new equipment, it is doubtful that this an- 
imal could have been treated at all. 

During the year a major dietary change was instituted by the 
Associate Director and was enthusiastically supported by the entire 
animal department. The diets for the carnivores and omnivores were 
patterned after those developed by the Philadelphia Zoological Park 
and in use successfully by that organization since 1935. It is too 
early to draw definite conclusions, but it is felt that these changes 
have already benefited the animal colonies by increased reproduction 



172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

and improved general condition. The technical aspects of the above 
diets have been published by the Zoological Society of Philadelphia. 

A new herbivorous diet was developed by the animal department 
staff with gratifying results. 

The feed for the reptile division is still being obtained from various 
governmental institutions in the area. Bacteriological isolations 
from several large snakes lost during the past year indicated that 
feed rodents may be carriers of reptilian pathogens. Specifically, 
several isolations of Paracolobactruin arizonae were made from me- 
dium-sized boas and pythons whose only source of infection could 
have been feed rats. This particular organism is nonpathogenic to 
rodents, but it will produce lesions in cold-blooded animals such as 
lizards and snakes. At the present time the pathogenicity of this 
particular organism is being investigated. At this writing isolations 
of this organism have been made from a regal python, an African 
python, a western diamondback rattlesnake, and the drain of the 
cage inhabited by the first two snakes. This problem happens to 
be the most interesting of several in the reptile division. Others are 
the high percentage of granulomatous lesions found in the organs 
of reptiles and the persistent remissions and exacerbations of the 
necrotizing lesions commonly known as "mouth rot." 

In January 1958, the king cobra succumbed after less than a year 
and a half in the collection. At the time of death this individual 
had attained a length of 11 feet 914 inches and a weight of 14^2 
pounds. The snake had been off its feed for almost 3 months, and 
no amount of coaxing could entice it to eat. Bacteriological cultures 
were negative for pathogens, but microscopic sections revealed gran- 
ulomatous lesions in many internal organs. Grossly these lesions 
showed as white-spotted areas, especially noticeable in the liver. The 
small intestine contained many cestodes which seemed to be causing 
the snake no apparent distress. 

One Salmonella typhimurium was isolated from a 9-foot regal 
python with ulcerative and necrotic enteritis. It was interesting to 
note that this individual was taken from the same cage inhabited by 
those snakes from which two of the aforementioned arizonae isolations 
were made. From at least one snake in this same cage an isolation of 
Mycobacterium, thamnopheos has been made. Within a period of less 
than 2 months 2 regal pythons, 1 African python, 2 anacondas, and 
2 emperor boas were lost from this cage. 

In November 1957, 8 quokkas (Setonix hracJiyurus) were received 
from Perth, Australia, all of which seemed to be in good condition. 
However, a week after their arrival, one quokka was found dead 
(fighting). From this necropsy these animals were found to be har- 
boring large numbers of Austrostrongyliis minutus and smaller num- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 173 

bers of Di'petalonema annulipa'pillata. Other than these parasites, no 
gross lesions were recognized in this individual. The remaining ani- 
mals were given antibiotics and oral anthelmintics (piperazine). A 
short time later a second quokka died from an intestinal intussuscep- 
tion. It was then noticed that most of the remaining animals were 
exhibiting exfoliative type of skin lesions, scrapings from which were 
negative. Necropsy findings on another animal dying at this time 
were grossly negative, except for the previously mentioned para- 
sitism. 

Between February and late May there began a progressive posterior 
paralysis of the remaining five quolikas. The skin trouble had vir- 
tually disappeared and the appetites remained good although some- 
times variable. In addition to the vitamin and mineral supplements 
which these animals had been receiving for several months, injectable 
forms of vitamin E were administered. During this time all recom- 
mended diets had been offered and eaten. Despite the treatments and 
nutritional changes the paralysis progressed. Two of the animals 
were euthanized and the remaining ones died. Necropsies were done 
at the National Institutes of Health and the Armed Forces Institute 
of Pathology. As yet the preliminary reports from these agencies 
have shed no light on this peculiar and perplexing syndrome. 

Eight albatrosses were received in December 1957 from U. S. Naval 
Installation at Midway Island, Four were black-footed and four 
were Laysan albatrosses. All seemed to be adults in good condition, 
but none would eat voluntarily. Forced feeding with trout and smelt 
fortified with vitamin capsules was begun, but in 2 weeks a Laysan 
died. None of the birds was self -feeding at this time and several 
were noticeably weaker. First necropsy findings were essentially 
negative except that very large numbers of Tetrdbothrium, cestodes 
were found in the small intestine. 

Before the end of January three Laysan and two black-footed birds 
had been lost from terminal aspiration pneumonia, probably incurred 
through regurgitation of their forced feedings. Weakness continued 
to be prominent along with regurgitation of feedings. In February 
two more black-footed birds died, one of which was found to have 
slight pulmonary aspergillosis. The remaining bird was removed to 
another building with its own water tank, where it was felt that the 
atmosphere would be more humid. This individual died late in 
March with lipid pneumonia, probably from the oil on the force-fed 
fish. 

After losing all eight birds it was evident that the necropsy find- 
ings were secondary, but what the primary condition had been was 
not known. Recently it was learned that several albatrosses were 
being successfully kept at Pennsylvania State University by adding 



174 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 



salt (NaCl) to their diet. Apparently these birds secrete sodium 
chloride in amounts that require heavy dietary supplementation. In 
reviewing the Zoo's cases it was noted that the symptoms were con- 
sistent with salt depletion. 

The Zoo's pair of gorillas developed an intestinal malady caused 
by a heavy infestation with Balantidium coli. Fortunately this con- 
dition was quickly checked by daily oral administration of carbasone. 

Of the 12 Adelie penguins received in February, 4 remain and 
seem to be in good health. Deaths in this group were caused by 
aspergillosis as in the past. The cooperative aspergillosis research 
program with these birds conducted by Dr. William Sladen of Johns 
Hopkins University and Dr. C. Herman of Fish and Wildlife Service 
continued. A new antifungal drug was tried this year for the first 
time with some degree of success. 

The pangolin (Manis fentadaclyla) received in February from 
Formosa died in mid- June from grossly midetermined causes. Micro- 
scopic findings have not been reported as yet. 

Pigeons caught in the Park were sent to Major Thompson at the 
Fitzsimons Army Hospital in Denver, Colo., for a toxoplasmosis 
incidence survey, results of which indicate small probability of a res- 
ervoir in these birds. 

Mechanical injury to the tail of the male cheetah necessitated sur- 
gical removal of the terminal 3 inches of the appendage. The com- 
bination of ataraxics and short-acting barbiturates proved a desirable 
anesthetic in this case, and long-acting antibiotics obtained a favor- 
able outcome. 

Bacteriological isolations, over 260 in all, were performed by Dr. 
Francis R. Lucas of Centreville, Md. Dr. Lucas also assisted with 
histopathological sections, blood analyses, and virus isolation 
attempts. 

Dr. Thomas Peery of the George Washington University has as- 
sisted the Zoo with histopathological slides and pathological inter- 
pretations. Identification of endoparasites was supplied by Mr. 
Mcintosh and ISIrs. Chitwood of the Department of Agriculture. 

Following are the statistics for the mortality rates during the past 
fiscal year and a table of comparison with the past 6 years: 



Mortality, fiscal year 1958 

Deaths Attrition ' 

Mammals 102 14 

Birds 181 34 

Reptiles 142 77 



Total 425 



125 



Total mortality, past 6 fiscal years 



1953. 
1954. 
1955. 
1956. 
1957. 
1958- 



672 
648 
735 
618 
549 
550 



< Attrition is term used for those losses due mainly to the trauma of shipment and handling after accession 
at the Zoo, or before an animal can adapt to cage habitation within the collection. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 175 

COOPERATION 

At all times special efforts are made to maintain friendly contacts 
with other Federal and State agencies, private concerns and individ- 
uals, and scientific workers for mutual assistance. As a result the 
Zoo receives much help and advice and many valuable animals, and in 
turn it furnishes information and, whenever possible, annuals it does 
not need. 

Special acknowledgment is due Howard Fyfe, United States Dis- 
patch Agent in New York City, and Stephen E. Lato, Dispatch Agent 
in San Francisco. They are frequently called upon to clear shipments 
of animals coming from abroad, often at great personal inconvenience. 
The animals have been forwarded to Washington without the loss of a 
single individual. 

The food subsidies section, D.C. Department of Food Services, gave 
3,400 pounds of wheat flour not salvageable for human consumption. 
The U.S. Soldiers Home gave 94 sacks of hard wheat flour and 30 
sacks of soft wheat flour. The poultry division of the Department of 
Agriculture gave several thousand day-old chicks, which are good 
food for many young animals. The National Institutes of Plealth co- 
operated in many ways, helping with postmortems, giving valuable 
advice, and donating surplus laboratory animals, some of which were 
exhibited and some used as food. Laboratory animals that had served 
their purpose were also donated by the Army Medical Center and the 
Navy Medical Center. 

In August 1957, owing to an outbreak of botulism among the North 
American waterfowl, it became necessary to drain and clean the ponds. 
Both the District of Columbia Fire Department and the District Sani- 
tation Department cooperated in this task, lending the Zoo hoses and 
other equipment. 

Several times during the year the National Zoological Park has lent 
various small native animals to National Capital Park naturalists for 
exhibition at special programs. The Zoo has received aid and assist- 
ance in exhibition, and several species, from this organization. 

In December 1957 eight male deer were lent to the Christmas Pag- 
eant of Peace, held annually on the Ellipse grounds in Wasliington. 

VISITORS 

Attendance at the Zoo this year reached a total of 4,028,620. In 
general this figure is based on estimates rather than actual counts. 



176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

Estimated number of visitors in fiscal year 1958 



July (1957) 566,720 

August 425, 700 

September 403, 400 

October 328, 050 

November 197,500 

December 164,050 



January (1958) 123,900 

February 49,225 

March 339,500 

April 583,915 

May 447, 300 

June 399, 350 

Total 4,028,620 



Number of bus groups 



Locality 


Number 
of groups 


Number 
in groups 


Locality 


Number 
of groups 


Number 
in groups 


Alabama 

Arkansas 


31 
1 
1 
4 

11 

68 

16 

52 

5 

9 

1 

10 

2 

9 

380 

11 

4 


1,437 

36 

137 

244 

472 

2,867 

3,665 

10, 035 

224 

374 

25 

477 

101 

436 

31, 297 

394 

574 


Minnesota 

Mississippi 

Montana 


3 
9 

1 

2 

2 

16 

55 

250 

30 

174 

1 

55 

56 

2 

3 

62 

1 


107 
363 


California _ 


38 


Connecticut 

Delaware __ 


Nebraska 

New Hampshire 

New Jersey 

New York 

North Carolina 

Ohio .. 


188 
71 


District of Colum- 
bia. __ 


1,231 

8,271 


Florida. ._ _ _ 


13, 341 


Georgia __ _ 


1, 541 


Illinois 


Pennsylvania 

Rhode Island 

South Carolina 

Tennessee 

Texas _. . _ _ 


12, 306 


Indiana. 


108 


Kansas. 


2,567 


Kentucky 


2,759 


Louisiana ._ 


833 


Maine.. . _. 


U.S.A 


35 


Maryland 


West Virginia 

Wisconsin 

Total 


4,554 


Massachusetts 


442 




1,337 


99, 515 



Groups from foreign countries 



Canada _. . . 


1 
1 
4 
1 
1 
2 
14 
1 


92 
18 
44 
5 
37 
45 
341 
38 


Peru 


2 


51 


China 


Puerto Rico 

Sweden 


140 


Denmark .. . 


19 


Formosa 


Spain _ 


20 


Japan __ 


Foreign Exchange 
students 

Total 




Mexico _. 


800 






Pakistan 


31 


1,650 







About 2 p.m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted 
and listed according to the State, Territory, or country from which 
they come. This is, of course, not a census of the cars coming to the 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 177 

Zoo but is valuable in showing the percentage of attendance by 
States of people in private automobiles. Many District of Columbia, 
Maryland, and Virginia cars come to the Zoo to bring guests from 
other States. The tabulation for the fiscal year 1958 is as follows: 



Percent 

Maryland 30. 5 

District of Columbia 21.5 

Virginia 19.3 

Pennsylvania 4. 

New York 2.6 

North Carolina 2.2 

New Jersey 1. 6 

Ohio 1.5 

West Virginia 1. 2 

Florida 1. 1 

Massachusetts 0. 9 

California 0. 8 

Connecticut 0. 8 



Percent 

Illinois 0.7 

South Carolina 0.7 

Michigan 0.7 

Tennessee 0.6 

Texas 0.6 

Georgia 0. 5 

Indiana 0. 4 

Delaware 0.4 

Minnesota 0.3 

Wisconsin 0. 3 

Kentucky 0.3 



94.0 



The remaining 6 percent came from other States, Alaska, Bahamas, 
Belgium, British Columbia, Canada, Canal Zone, Cuba, England, 
Germany, Guatemala, Hawaii, Honduras, Italy, Japan, Mexico, New 
Brunswick, Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, Okinawa, Philippine 
Islands, Saskatchewan, and the West Indies. 

On the days of even small attendance there are cars parked in the 
Zoo from at least 15 States, Territories, the District of Columbia, 
and foreign countries. On average days there are cars from about 
22 States, Territories, the District of Columbia, and foreign coun- 
tries ; and during the periods of greatest attendance the cars represent 
not less than 34 different States, Territories, and countries. 

Parking spaces in the Zoo now accommodate 1,079 cars when the 
bus parking place is utilized, and 969 cars when it is not used. 

GROUNDS, BUILDINGS, AND ENCLOSURES 

During the year there were extensive replacements, remodeling, and 
repairs to paddocks, cages, and water lines. Koofs were repaired 
and roads and sidewalks patched. 

Two zebra paddocks were enlarged, and the old cookhouse was 
remodeled and refurbished to facilitate the new method of preparing 
foods. A special experimental cage was constructed behind the bird 
house for the secluded study of species of birds that do not adapt 
themselves well to exhibition. 

A stationary air compressor has been installed in the shop area. 

The basement space under the big tortoises' enclosure in the reptile 
house was opened up and made into a storage room. An insect-rais- 
ing room was constructed in the basement of the reptile house, and 



178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

the animal department now has centralized and consolidated their 
mealworm raising. 

A new map of the National Zoological Park, showing the location 
of all buildings and exhibits, was prepared, and copies of it, suitably 
framed, have been placed at various locations throughout the Park. 

Following the tragic death of a little girl who was mauled by a 
lion in the Zoo on May 16, 1958, a study was begun to eliminate any 
danger points in the buildings and grounds. Wire mesh has been 
placed on some of the guard rails, and further precautions will be 
taken when the report of an mdependent committee investigating 
safety measures has been completed. The National Zoological Park 
has always had a fine record of safety : since 1908, when records were 
first kept of the number of annual visitors, approximately 115,000,000 
people have visited the Zoo without one instance of serious injury. 
The accident in May resulted in the, first fatality. 

The work of the gardener's force has been mainly that of removing 
dead trees, which are a menace to both animals and visitors, and 
replacing them with young trees. The animal department is furnished 
with forage which is very beneficial for animals. Heavy logs for the 
big cats to climb, perches and sawed hollow logs for small mammals, 
gnawing logs for rodents, and perches for birds are supplied on de- 
mand, and tropical plants for indoor cages and the buildings are 
supplied and cared for. 

The accumulation of trash is still a major problem, although the 
installation of larger trash receptacles and a number of "litter-bug" 
signs posted at strategic spots have helped in keeping the Park 
presentable. 

"With the increase in the number of visitors, the work of the police 
in maintaining order and protecting the public and the animals is 
constantly growing. New police officers have been authorized for next 
year, and temporary men are appointed for the summer months, but 
the force is still inadequate. The number of visitors who stopped at 
police headquarters to ask for information or to receive first aid was 
7,000. 

PLANS FOR THE FUTURE 

Owing to lack of appropriated funds, no major improvements were 
undertaken during the fiscal year. The old buildings continue to 
deteriorate, and even the newest exhibition building is now 21 years old 
and needs painting and repairs. Ten enclosures, including the pools 
for exhibition of aquatic mammals, have been abandoned for nearly 
11 years. It is hoped that in the near future funds will be appropri- 
ated for the following badly needed new construction and improve- 
ments: 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 179 

Buildings. — A building to house antelopes and other hoofed animals 
that require a heated building. The present structure, built in 1898 for 
$3,500, is inadequate, dimly lighted, and poorly ventilated. The build- 
ing houses a miscellaneous collection of cats, kangaroos, gaur, anoas, 
and others. The Zoo has made it a policy not to purchase or accept 
antelopes because of the lack of housing for them. 

A new administration building to replace the 153-year-old historic 
landmark, which is still in use as an ojSice building but is not well 
adapted for the purpose. Termites destroyed the photographic file 
last year, and most of the Zoo library has now been moved to the 
second floor of the building to postpone the day when the invaders will 
attack this valuable collection of scientific books. A thorough exami- 
nation of the office was made by the District of Columbia Department 
of Buildings and Grounds, which recommended that unless extensive 
repairs are undertaken immediately, the building be condemned as 
unsafe. 

A hospital, which will also serve as a fireproof receiving station for 
animals shipped in, for quarantming them when necessary, and with 
facilities for caring for those in ill health. This building should also 
contain an office and a laboratory for the veterinarian. There is no 
structure within the National Zoological Park suitable for conversion 
into an animal hospital. The building now in use is an ancient stone 
house, formerly used as a hay barn and storage shed, which was 
hastily cleaned out and sketchily furnished at the time the veterinarian 
was appointed in 1955. 

Enclosures. — Enclosures and pools for beavers, otters, seals, and 
nutrias, which cannot be adequately cared for or exhibited under exist- 
ing conditions. 

New paddocks for the exhibition of such animals as deer, sheep, 
goats, and other hoofed animals, to provide for the exhibition of a 
greater assortment of these attractive and valuable animals. 

Installations. — Extensive remodeling of some of the buildings is 
needed to bring them up to date with the latest techniques of zoological 
exhibits and make them more pleasing esthetically for the visitors and 
ecologically for the animals. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Theodore H. Eeed, Director. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Canal Zone Biological Area 

Sir : It gives me pleasure to present herewith the annual report on 

the Canal Zone Biological Area for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958. 

SCIENTISTS, STUDENTS, AND OBSERVERS 

Following is the list of 43 scientists, students, and observers who 
visited the island last year and stayed for several days, in order to 
conduct scientific research or observe the wildlife of the area : 



Name 
Alexander, Dr. T., 

University of Miami, Fla. 
Anderson, Eugene, 

Santa Monica, Calif. 
Bartel, Mr. and Mrs. James, 

Pomona, Calif. 
Boyden, Dr. Alan, 

Rutgers University, N.J. 
Brooks, Dr. Robert, 

Williams College, Williamstown, 
Mass. 
Brown, Mr. and Mrs. W. L., 

Toronto, Canada. 
Bruno, Kent, 

Ohio State University. 
Buren, Dr. William F., 

Public Health Service, El Paso, Tex. 
Chickering, Dr. A. M., 

Cambridge, Mass. 
Cox, George, 

University of Illinois. 

Enders, Dr. Robert K., 

Swarthmore College. 
Fast, Arthur, 

Arlington, Va. 
Groner, Miss Dorothy, 

Los Angeles, Calif. 
Hartman, Dr. Frank, 

Ohio State University. 
Henry, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R., 

Washington, D.C. 
Hughes-Schrader, Dr. Sally, 

Columbia University. 

180 



Principal interest 
Tropical research. 

Bird observation. 

Wildlife photography and 

bird observation. 
Studies in comparative 

serology. 
Bird observation. 



Bird watching and bird 

photography. 
Assistant to Dr. Hartman. 

Study of ants. 

Study of spiders. 

Preparatory visit to arrange research 
on energy requirements of tropical 
birds. 

Study of mammals and vegetation of 
the island. 

Bird study and observation. 

Wildlife photography and bird obser- 
vation. 

Muscle studies of birds and adrenal 
gland. 

Science writer. 

Insect cytology. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



181 



Name 
Johnson, Dr. M., 

Rutgers University, N.J. 
Keddy, Dr. and Mrs. J. L., 

Smithsonian Institution. 
Kendeigh, S. Charles, 

University of Illinois. 

Kessler, Dietrich, 

University of Wisconsin. 
Kliugener, David, 

Swarthmore College. 
Loomis, Mr. and Mrs. H. F., 

Miami, Fla. 
Pearson, Dr. Paul, 

Rutgers University, N.J. 
Prescott, G. W., 

Michigan State University. 
Snow, Dr. David, 

New York Zoological Society. 
Snyder, Miss Dorothy, 

Peabody Museum, Salem, Mass 
Stultz, Mr. and Mrs. O. M., 

El Monte, Calif. 
Taabor, Dr. Henry J., 

San Francisco, Calif. 
Usinger, Dr. R. L., 

University of California. 

Walch, Miss Carolyn, 

Johns Hopkins University. 
Weber, Dr. Neal A., 

Swarthmore College. 
Weil, Mrs. Gertrude W., 

University of California 
Weil, John, 

University of California 
Wetmore, Dr. and Mrs. Alexander, 

Washington, D.C. 
Woodring, Dr. W. P., 

Washington, D.C. 



Wyse, Gordon B., 
Swarthmore College. 

Research and observations were 
individuals who spent one day and 



Principal interest 

Research on apical meristems of tropi- 
cal woody plants. 

Inspection of facilities and wildlife 
observation. 

Preparatory visit to arrange research 
on energy requirements of tropical 
birds. 

Wildlife observation. 

Research on fungus-growing ants and 

their fungi. 
Collection of millipeds. 

Studies in comparative serology. 

Supplementary collections of plank- 
ton from Gatun Lake. 
Bird observation. 

Bird observation. 

Wildlife photography and bird obser- 
vation. 

Wildlife observation and collection of 
plants and insects. 

Main interest is ectoparasites, espe- 
cially bedbugs and polyctenids on 
birds and bats. 

Wildlife observation. 

Research on fungus-growing ants and 

their fungi. 
Wildlife observation. 

Wildlife observation. 

Bird observation. 

The stratigraphic relations of fossil- 
iferous beds of early Tertiary age in 
the Gatun Lake area near Barro 
Colorado Island. 

Wildlife observation. 

also conducted by some 75 other 
niffht on the island. 



VISITORS 

Approximately 570 visitors were permitted to visit the island for 
the day. Most of them came on Tuesdays and Saturdays, when they 
were conducted on guided tours through the jungle. 



182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

RAINFALL 

During the dry season (January through April) of the calendar 
year 1957, rains of 0.01 inch or more fell during 20 days (33 hours) 
and amounted to 1.20 inches, as compared to 12.53 inches during 1956. 
During the wet season of 1957 (May through December), rains of 
0.01 inch or more fell on 176 days (647 hours) and amounted to 96.77 
inches, as compared to 101.42 inches during 1956. Total rainfall for 

Table 1. — Annual rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, C. Z. 



Year 


Total 
Inches 


station 
average 


Year 


Total 
Inches 


station 
average 


1925 - 


104. 37 
118.22 

116. 36 
101. 52 

87.84 
76.57 

123. 30 
113. 52 
101. 73 
122. 42 
143. 42 

93.88 

124. 13 

117. 09 
115.47 

86.51 
91. 82 




1942. 


111. 10 
120. 29 

111. 96 
120. 42 

87.38 

77. 92 

83. 16 

114.86 

114. 51 

112. 72 
97.68 

104. 97 

105. 68 
114. 42 
114.05 

97.97 


108. 55 


1926 


113. 56 
114.68 
111.35 

106. 56 
101. 51 

104. 69 

105. 76 
105. 32 

107. 04 
110. 35 

108. 98 
110. 12 
110.62 
110. 94 

109. 43 
108. 41 


1943 


109. 20 


1927_— 


1944 


109. 30 


1928 


1945 


109. 84 


1929-- 


1946 


108. 81 


1930 


1947 


107. 49 


1931 -- - _ 


1948 


106. 43 


1932 


1919 


106. 76 


1933 


1950 


107. 07 


193^ -. - 


1951- 


107. 28 


1935 


1952 


106. 94 


1936 


1953 


106. 87 


1937 _- _ 


1954 


106. 82 


1938.- __. _. 


1955. 


107. 09 


1939. 


1956 


107. 30 


1940 - -- _ 


1957 - 


106. 98 


1941 











Table 2. — Comparison of 1956 and 1957 rainfall, Barro Colorado Island (inches) 



Month 


Total 


Station 
average 


Years 

of 
record 


\9!^7 
excess or 
deficlejicy 


Accumu- 
lated 




1956 


1957 


excess or 
deficiency 


January 


5. 57 
S.ll 

i.U 

t6! 
16.55 

6.85 
19.55 

9.48 
11.27 
18. 64 
12.37 

6.81 

114.05 


0.5'i 
0.57 
O.OS 
0.05 
6.37 
5.97 
10.86 
21.90 
12.40 
17.22 
17.96 
4.09 


2.U 

i.n 

1.15 
S.9i 
10.87 
10. 95 
11.78 
12.48 
10.04 
14.00 
18.79 
10. 62 


S2 
S3 
S3 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 


-1.68 
-0. 65 
-LIS 
-2.89 
-A. 50 
-4.98 
-0.92 
+9.42 
+2. 36 
+3.22 
-0.83 
-6.53 


-1.58 


February .. 


-S.2S 




-S.S6 


April .. 


-6.25 


May - 


-10. 75 


June - 


-15. 73 


July 


-16. 65 


August — 


-7.23 


September 


-4.87 


October.. 


-1. 65 


November 


-2.48 


December 


-9.01 






Year .. 


97.97 


106. 98 






-9.01 










Dry season 


12.53 
101. 52 


1.20 
96.77 


7.45 
99.63 






-6.25 


Wet season 






-2.76 











SECRETARY'S REPORT 183 

the year was 97.97 inches. During 33 years of record the wettest year 
was 1935 with 143.42 inches, and the driest year was 1930, with 
only 76.57 inches. March was the driest month of 1957 (0.02 inch) 
and August the wettest (21.90 inches). The maximum records for 
short periods were: 5 minutes 1.30 inches; 10 minutes 1.65 inches; 
1 hour 4.11 inches ; 2 hours 4.81 inches ; 24 hours 10.48 inches. 

BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT, AND IMPROVEMENTS 

Special attention was paid during the year to the improvement and 
expansion of existing facilities. 

The library on the island was greatly enlarged and altered and was 
moved to the lower floor of the new building to make it more accessible 
and provide space for improved arrangement of books. A great many 
new books and journals have been received, more will be added, and 
many old books and journals have been bound or rebound. A 
temporary librarian was engaged to catalog the whole collection, 
which should make it much more useful to visiting scientists and stu- 
dents. Air-conditioning was installed in the new library room in 
order to preserve the books and to provide greater comfort for persons 
using the library facilities. 

Two large aviaries and many smaller cages were built, and many 
species of Panamanian birds are now being kept in captivity on the 
island for experimental and observational purposes. New insect 
cages and vivaria have been ordered. Eight hygrothermographs 
were ordered making it possible to keep extensive records of tempera- 
ture and humidity conditions in different parts of the island. An 
Ampex 201 sound recorder, with accessories, and a Kodak K-lOO turret 
camera were bought. A portable canvas blind was constructed for use 
in the field; and various minor items of trapping and laboratory 
equipment, including mist nets, an ultraviolet lamp, new dissecting 
kits, and thermometers were also purchased. 

A new 30-hp. Mercury outboard motor was bought to provide a 
means of rapid communication with the mainland in case of emergen- 
cies and also to facilitate fieldwork in the more remote regions of 
Gatun Lake and the Chagres Kiver. A 4-hp. Dragonfly air-drive 
outboard motor was purchased to facilitate research work along the 
shoreline of the island and the adjacent mainland. Large tents, cots, 
and gasoline stoves were also obtained and will be available to scien- 
tists and students wishing to camp for a few days on the far side of 
the island. 

Many new items of office equipment, including two new typewriters, 
lamps, desks, tables, and chairs were purchased for use in the Balboa 
office at Diablo Heights and in the laboratory and library on the island. 

492520—59 13 



184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

A reinforced 12,000-gallon concrete water tank was built back of tlie 
old laboratory. This will assure a steady water supply for the ex- 
panding needs of the station. 

Barbour House was provided with new toilet and shower facilities, 
additional dry-closet space, and a concrete septic tank. The old Zetek 
House was divided into two sections, one of which is being used as 
living quarters and the other as a storeroom and office. A new Cater- 
pillar generator was installed on the island and has greatly unproved 
the electricity situation. 

Other routine repair and maintenance activities included the re- 
painting of the outside and inside of all the station buildings, small 
repairs to the gasoline winch engine, rebuilding the dock on the island, 
rebuilding the Frijoles dock site, and repairing the trackway from the 
Frijoles railroad station to the dock. 

The labor situation on the island has been greatly improved by the 
hiring of three additional temporary laborers, and another office assist- 
ant was engaged to take care of increased office work in Balboa and 
on the island. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

A program was initiated to encourage promising young scientists 
to come to the Canal Zone Biological Area to conduct special research 
projects. The first of these temporary assistants was C. F. Bennett, 
Jr., of the Department of Geography at the University of California at 
Los Angeles, who is studying temperature and humidity gradients in 
the forest during the rainy season. 

The National Science Foundation has provided financial support 
for two research projects to be conducted or supervised by the Kesident 
Naturalist. The first will be a 3 -year study of the behavior and evolu- 
tion of certain neotropical birds, and the second will be a 6-month 
study of certain behavior patterns of sphingid and saturniid moths. 
This program will be carried out by a research assistant. Dr. A. D. 
Blest, of University College, London. 

PLANS AND REQUIREMENTS 

As it seems probable that there will be an increasing number of 
scientists and students coming to the Canal Zone Biological Area in 
future years, remaining for longer periods of time and bringing their 
families with them, somewhat more comfortable and more private 
living quarters are urgently required. 

It is planned to remodel the second floor of the old laboratory build- 
ing, to make available separate rooms and additional washing and 
toilet facilities. Chapman House is in a very bad state of repair, hav- 
ing been heavily infested with termites in previous years and should 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 185 

be remodeled or replaced to provide more private living quarters and 
more work space. 

Because the problem of storing materials on the island is becoming 
acute, it is planned to build a separate storage shed. 

Plans for relocating the island dock have been abandoned, as there 
is no convenient alternative site available where the silting problem 
would not be equally serious. It has been decided, therefore, to have 
the old channel beside the present dock redredged, and arrangements 
for this work have already been made. 

It is also planned to replace the old winch as well as the launch U.S. 
Moon^ which is beginning to show signs of deterioration. 

In connection with the research projects of the station staff, more 
facilities for keeping animals in captivity and conducting experi- 
mental work under suitable conditions will be constructed. 

Several other projects supported by the National Science Founda- 
tion, including a study of the energy requirements of tropical birds 
by Dr. S. Charles Kendeigh and George Cox of the University of 
Illinois and a life-history study of the coati by John H. Kaufmann of 
the University of California, may also require more cages and constant- 
temperature chambers. 

The program of graduate assistantships will be continued, and every 
effort will be made to provide all the facilities which future assistants 
may need in their work. 

The expansion of the library will continue. 

It is also hoped to extend the field of research by the station staff 
to some part of the mainland. The island itself is, of course, almost 
completely covered by heavy mature forest. This is extremely valu- 
able ; but it would also be useful to be able to do intensive, long-term, 
and undisturbed work in other areas of different ecology. An at- 
tempt will be made to obtain access to some area of grassland, or 
mixed grassland and brush, on the mainland near Gamboa. This will 
provide ecologists and students of animal behavior with a much 
greater range of opportunities. 

FINANCES 

Trust funds for maintenance of the island and its living facilities 
are obtained by collections from visitors and scientists, table subscrip- 
tions, and donations. 

The following institutions continued their support to the laboratory 
through the payment of table subscriptions : 

Eastman Kodak Co $1,000.00 

New York Zoological Society 300. 00 

Smithsonian Institution 300 .00 

C. M, Goethe's donations during the year are gi-atefully 
acknowledged. 



186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 196 8 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

The Canal Zone Biological Area can operate only with the excellent 
cooperation of the Canal Zone Government and the Panama Canal 
Company. Thanks are due especially to the Executive Secretary 
Paul Runnestrand and his staff, the Customs and Immigration of- 
ficials, and the Police Division. The technical advice and assistance 
provided by P. Alton White, chief of the Dredging Division, and mem- 
bers of his staff, by C. W. Soper of the Eastman Kodak Co., and by 
Lt. K. E. McCall and other members of the Signal Corps Meteoro- 
logical Team No. 2, were also invaluable. 
Eespectf uUy submitted. 

Martin H. Moynihan, 

Resident Naturalist. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the International Exchange 

Service 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the ac- 
tivities of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year 
ended June 30, 1958 : 

The Smitlisonian Institution is the official United States agency 
for the exchange with other nations of governmental, scientific, and 
literary publications. The International Exchange Service, initiated 
by the Smithsonian Institution in the early years of its existence for 
the interchange of scientific publications between learned societies and 
individuals in the United States and those of foreign countries, 
serves as a means of developing and executing in part the broad and 
comprehensive objective, "the diffusion of knowledge." It was later 
designated by the United States Government as the agency for the 
transmission of official documents to selected depositories throughout 
the world, and it continues to execute the exchanges pursuant to con- 
ventions, treaties, and other international agreements. 

The number of packages of publications received for transmission 
during the year was 1,094,798, a decrease of 110,241 packages under 
the previous fiscal year. The weight of the packages received was 
743,329 pounds, a decrease of 84,568 pounds. During the current 
year 19 Government depository sets were assembled for transmission 
abroad as compared to 21 sets assembled during the previous fiscal 
year. The reduction in the number of Government sets assembled, 
together wdth the use of corrugated cardboard boxes in place of wood 
boxes for packing the Government sets for transmission, accounted 
for 14,000 pounds of the decrease in weight. One Goverimient de- 
partment transmitted during the previous fiscal year 71,500 pounds 
of publications that had accumulated during World "War II and 
transmitted only 258 pounds of backlog publications during the cur- 
rent year. 

The average weight of the individual package decreased to 10.86 
ounces as compared to the 10.99-ounce average for the fiscal year of 
1957. 

187 



188 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 



The publications received from foreign sources for addressees in 
the United States and from domestic sources for shipment abroad 
are classified as shown in the following table : 



Classiflcatlon 


Packages 


Weight 


United States parliamentary documents sent abroad 


Number 
690,366 


Number 


Pounds 
225,365 


Pounds 


Publications received m return for parliamentary documents 


8,226 


13, 385 


221,460 


187, 605 






7,219 


16,742 


Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad... 
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from 


198, 141 


199,968 




69, 386 


100,264 










Total 


1,009,967 


84,831 


612,938 


130, 391 






Grand total 


1, 094- 798 


743 329 













The packages of publications are forwarded to the exchange bu- 
reaus of foreign countries by freight or, where shipment by such 
means is impractical, to the foreign addressees by direct mail. Dis- 
tribution in the United States of the publications received through 
the foreign exchange bureaus is accomplished primarily by mail, but 
by other means when more economical. The number of boxes shipped 
to the foreign exchange bureaus was 3,082, or 50 less than for the 
previous year. Of these boxes 999 were for depositories of full sets 
of United States Government documents, these publications being 
furnished in exchange for the official publications of foreign govern- 
ments which are received for deposit in the Library of Congress. The 
weight of packages forwarded by mail and by means other than 
freight was 271,560 pounds. 

There was allocated to the International Exchange Service for 
transportation $31,800. With this amount it was possible to effect 
the shipment of 818,887 pounds, which was 40,184 pounds less than 
was shipped in the previous year. However, approximately 6,891 
pounds of the full sets of United States Government documents ac- 
cumulated during the year because the Library of Congress had re- 
quested suspension of shipment to certain foreign depositories. 

During the year, ocean freight rates per cubic foot continued at the 
1957 level. However, on November 5, 1957, a number of carriers 
filed a special rate for hauling books and periodicals to the Baltimore 
piers amounting to about a 20 percent reduction. 

With the exception of those to Taiwan, no shipments are being 
made to China, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, and Communist-con- 
trolled area of Viet-Nam, or Communist-controlled area of Laos. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 189 

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS 

The number of sets of United States official publications received 
by the Exchange Service for transmission abroad in return for the 
official publications sent by foreign governments for deposit in the 
Library of Congress is now 106 (63 full and 43 partial sets), listed 
below. Changes that occurred during the year are shown in the 
footnotes. 

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS 

Argentina : Divisi6n Biblioteca, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, 

Buenos Aires. 
Australia: Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra. 

New South Wales : Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Queensland : Parliamentary Library, Brisbane. 

South Australia : Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide. 

Tasmania : Parliamentary Library, Hobart. 

Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 

Western Australia : State Library, Perth.^ 
Austria : Administrative Library, Federal Chancellery, Vienna. 
Belgium : Biblioth^que Royale, Bruxelles. 
Brazil : Biblioteca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro. 
Bulgaria : Bulgarian Bibliographical Institute, Sofia.* 
Burma : Government Book Depot, Rangoon. 
Canada : Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Manitoba : Provincial Library, Winnipeg. 

Ontario : Legislative Library, Toronto. 

Quebec : Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec. 
Ceylon : Department of Information, Government of Ceylon, Colombo. 
Chile : Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago. 
China : National Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan. 

National Chengchi University, Taipei, Taiwan. 
Colombia : Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota. 
Costa Rica : Biblioteca Nacional, San Jos6. 
Cuba : Ministerio de Estado, Canje Internacional, Habana. 
Czechoslovakia : University Library, Prague. 

Denmark: Institut Danois des ^changes Intemationaux, Copenhagen. 
Egypt : Bureau des Publications, Minist^re des Finances, Cairo. 
Finland : Parliamentary Library, Helsinki. 
France : Biblioth&que Nationale, Paris. 
Germany : Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin. 

Free University of Berlin, Berlin-Dahlem. 

Parliamentary Library, Bonn. 
Great Britain : 

England : British Museum, London. 

London: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository 
of the London County Council. ) 
Hungary : Library of Parliament, Budapest.* 
India : National Library, Calcutta. 

Central Secretariat Library, New Delhi. 

Parliament Library, New Delhi.* 



* Changed from Pnblic Library of Western Australia, Perth. 
' Shipment suspended. 

* Added during the year. 



190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Indonesia : Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Djakarta. 

Ibexand : National Library of Ireland, Dublin. 

ISRAETL : State Archives and Library, Hakirya, Jerusalem. 

Italy : Ministerio della Pubblica Istruzione, Rome. 

Japan : National Diet Library, Tokyo.* 

Mexico : Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Departmento de Iuformaci6n para 
el Extranjero, Mexico, D. F. 

Netherlands : Royal Library, The Hague. 

New Zealand : General Assembly Library, Wellington. 

Norway : Utenriksdepartmentets Bibliothek, Oslo. 

Peru: Seccion de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex- 
teriores, Lima. 

Philippines : Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila. 

Poland : Bibliothfeque Nacionale, Warsaw." 

Portugal : Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon. 

Spain : Biblioteca Nacional, Madrid. 

Sweden : Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm. 

Switzerland : Bibliothfeque Centrale F6d6rale, Berne. 

Turkey : National Library, Ankara.' 

Union of South Africa : State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal. 

Union of Soviet Socialist Republics : All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow. 

United Nations : Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland. 

Uruguay : Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo. 

Venezuela : Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas. 

Yugoslavia : Bibliografski Institut, Belgrade.* 

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTUL SETS 

Afghanistan : Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul. 

Bolivia: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz. 

Brazil: 

MiNAS Gerais : Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Belo Horizonte. 
British Guiana : Government Secretary's Office, Georgetown, Demerara. 
Canada : 

Alberta : Provincial Library, Edmonton. 

British Columbia : Provincial Library, Victoria. 

New Brunswick : Legislative Library, Fredericton. 

Newfoundland : Department of Provincial Affairs, St. John's. 

Nova Scotia : Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax. 

Saskatchewan : Legislative Library, Regina. 
Dominican Republic : Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciiidad 

Trujillo. 
Ecuador : Biblioteca Nacional, Quito. 
El Salvador: 

Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador. 

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador. 
Greece : National Library, Athens. 
Guatemala : Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala 
Haiti : Bibliotheque Nationale, Port-au-Prince. 



** Receives two sets. 

« Changed from Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Edacatlon, IstanbnL 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 191 

HONDUKAS : 

Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.' 

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa. 
Iceland : National Library, Reykjavik. 
India : 

Bombay : Secretary to the Government, Bombay. 

BiHAK : Revenue Department, Patna. 

Uttab Pkadesh : 

University of Allahabad, Allahabad. 
Secretariat Library, Lucknow. 

West Bengal: Library, West Bengal Legislative Secretariat, Assembly 
House, Calcutta. 
Iran : Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran. 
Ibaq : Public Library, Baghdad. 
Jamaica : 

Colonial Secretary, Kingston, 

University College of the West Indies, St. Andrew. 
Lebanon : American University of Beirut, Beirut. 
Liberia : Department of State, Monrovia. 

Malaya : Federal Secretariat, Federation of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur. 
Malta : Minister for the Treasury, Valletta. 
Nicaragua : Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua. 
Pakistan : Central Secretariat Library, Karachi. 
Panama : Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panamfi. 

Paraguay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Secci6n Biblioteca, Asuncion. 
Philippines : House of Representatives, Manila. 
Scotland : National Library of Scotland, Edinburgh. 
Siam : National Library, Bangkok. 

Singapore : Chief Secretary, Government Offices, Singapore. 
Sudan : Gordon Memorial College, Khartoum. 
Vatican City : Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City. 

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFHCIAL JOURNAL 

There are now being sent abroad 80 copies of the Federal Register 
and 91 copies of the Congressional Record. This is an increase over 
the preceding year of 3 copies of the Federal Register and of 2 copies 
of the Congressional Record. The countries to which these journals 
are being forwarded are given in the following list: 

depositories of congressional record and federal register 

Argentina : 

Biblioteca de la H. Legislature de Mendoza, Mendoza.* ' 

Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza.* 

Boletin Oficial de la Republica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Instrue- 

cion Ptiblica, Buenos Aires. 
Cdmara de Diputados Oficina de Informacidn Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires. 



• Changed from Biblioteca y Archlvo Naclonales. 
" Congressional Recorrl only. 

* Federal Register only. 



192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

AtrSTBALIA : 

Gommonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra. 

New South Wales : Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Queensland : Chief Secretary's Office, Brisbane. 

Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.* 

Western Australia : Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth. 
Brazil : Secretaria de Presidencia, Rio de Janeiro.' 
British Honduras : Colonial Secretary, Belize. 
Canada : 

Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa. 
Ceylon : Ceylon Ministry of Defense and External Affairs, Colombo.'' 
China : 

Legislative Yuan, Taipei, Taiwan.' 

Taiwan Provincial Government, Taipei, Taiwan. 
Cuba: 

Biblioteea del Capitolio, Habana. 

Biblioteca PGblica Panamericana, Habana.* 
Czechoslovakia : Ceskoslovenska Akademie Ved, Prague.' 
Egypt: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Egyptian Government, Cairo.' 
France : 

Bibliothfeque Assembl^e Nationale, Paris. 

Bibliotheque Conseil de la R^publlque, Paris. 

Library, Organization for European Economic Cooperation, Paris.' 

Research Department, Council of Europe, Strasbourg.' 

Service de la Documentation £trang^re, Assembl^e Nationale, Paris.' 
Germany : 

Amerika-Institut der Universitat Miinchen, Miinchen.' 

Archiv, Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn. 

Bibliothek der Instituts fiir Weltwirtschaft an der Universitat Kiel, Kiel- 
Wik. 

Bibliothek Hessischer Landtag, Wiesbaden.' 

Der Bayrische Landtag, Munich.' • 

Deutschen Institiut fur Rechtswissenschaft, Potsdam-Babelsberg II.* 

Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn.' 

Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn.' 

Hamburgisches Welt-Wirtschaf ts-Archiv, Hamburg. 
Ghana : Chief Secretary's Office, Accra.' 
Great Britain : 

Department of Printed Books, British Museum, London. 

House of Commons Library, London.' 

N. P. P. Warehouse, H. M. Stationery Office, London." * " 

Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London. 

Royal Institute of International Affairs, London.' 
Greece: Bibliotheque, Chambre des D6put6s Hell^nique, Athens. 
Guatemala: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala 
Haiti : Bibliotheque Nationale, Port-au-Prince. 
Honduras : Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa. 
Hungary : National Library, Budapest. 



•Three copies. 
»Two copies. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 193 

Iicdia: 

Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.' 

Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi.' 

Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly, Srinagar.'' 

Legislative Assembly, Government of Assam, Shillong.* 

Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces. 

Legislative Assembly Library, Trivandrum.' 

Madras State Legislature, Madras.'' 

Parliament Library, New Delhi. 

Servants of Indian Society, Poona.' 
Ireland : Dail Eireann, Dublin. 
Israel : Library of the Knesset, Jerusalem. 
Italy: 

Biblioteca Camera dei Deputati, Rome. 

Biblioteca del Senato della Republica, Rome. 

Periodicals Unit, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 
Rome.* 

International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.* 
Japan : 

Library of the National Diet, Tokyo. 

Ministry of Finance, Tokyo. 
Jordan : Parliament of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Amman.* 
Korea : Secretary General, National Assembly, Seoul. 
Luxembourg: Assembl^e Commune de la C. E. C. A., Luxembourg. 
Mexico : 

Direcci6n General Information, Secretarfa de Gobernacion, Mexico, D. F. 

Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, Mexico, D. F. 

Aquascalientes : Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes. 

Baja California : Gobernador del Distrito Norte. Mexicali. 

Campeche : Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche. 

Chiapas : Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Guiti^rrez. 

Chihuahua: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua. 

Coahuila: Peri6dieo Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno, 
Saltillo. 

CoLiMA : Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima. 

Guanajuato: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato." 

Jalisco : Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara. 

Mfixico : Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca. 

MichoacAn : Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de MicboacSn, 
Morelia. 

MoRELOs : Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca. 

Nayarit : Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic. 

NuEvo Le6n : Biblioteca del Estado Monterrey. 

Oaxaca : Peri6dico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.* 

PuEBLA : Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla. 

QuERETARO : Secretaria General de Gobierno, Secci6n de Archivo, Quer^taro. 

SiNALOA : Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiaciin. 

SoNORA : Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo. 

Tamaulipas : Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria. 

Veracruz: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departamento de Gober- 
naci6n y Justicia, Jalapa. 

TucatAn : Gobernador del Estado de Yucatdn, M^rida. 



194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Netherlands : Koninklijke Bibliotheek, The Hague.' 

New Zealand : General Assembly Library, Wellington. 

Norway : Library of the Norwegian Parliament, Oslo. 

Panama : Biblioteca Nacional, Panama City.' 

Philippines : House of Representatives, Manila.' 

Poland : Kancelaria Rady, Panstwa, Biblioteka Sejmova, Warsaw. 

Portuguese Timor : Repartigao Central de Administracao Civil, Dili.* 

Switzerland: Bibliotheque, Bureau International du Travail, Geneva." 

International Labor OflBce, Geneva." '" 

Library, United Nations, Geneva. 
Union of South Africa: 

Cape of Good Hope : Library of Parliament, Cape Towa. 

Transvaal : State Library, Pretoria. 
Union op Soviet Socialist Republics: Fundamental'niia Biblioteka Obschest- 

vennykh Nauk, Moscow. 
Uruguay : Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo. 

FOREIGN EXCHANGE SERVICES 

Exchange publications for addresses in tlie countries listed below 
are forwarded by freight to the exchange services of those countries. 
Exchange publications for addresses in other countries are forwarded 
directly by mail. 

list of exchange services 

Austria : Austrian National Library, Vienna. 

Belgium : Service des iSchanges Interna tionaux, Bibliothfeque Royale de Bel- 
gique, Bruxelles. 

China : National Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan. 

Czechoslovakia: Bureau of International Exchanges, University Library, 
Prague. 

Denmark: Institut Danois des ^changes Internationaux, Bibliothfeque Royale, 
Copenhagen. 

Egypt : Government Press, Publications OflSce, Bulaq, Cairo. 

Finland : Delegation of the Scientific Societies, Helsinki. 

France: Service des ^changes Internationaux, Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris. 

Germany (Eastern) : Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin. 

Germany (Western) : Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Bad Godesberg. 

Hungary : National Library, Sz^ch^nyi, Budapest. 

India : Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay. 

Indonesia : Minister of Education, Djakarta. 

Israel : Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem. 

Italy : Ufficio degll Scambi Internazionali, Ministero delta Pubblica Istruzlone, 
Rome. 

Japan : Division of International Affairs, National Diet Library, Tokyo. 

Netherlands: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Li- 
brary, The Hague. 

New South Wales : Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 

New Zealand : General Assembly Library, Wellington. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 195 

Nobway: Service Norv6gien des ifichanges Internationanx, BibliotMque de 
rUniversit6 Royale, Oslo. 

Philippines : Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila, 

Poland : Service Polonais des ^changes Internationaux, Biblioth&que Nationale, 
Warsaw. 

Portugal : Secgao de Trocas Internaclonais, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon. 

Queensland: Bureau of International Exchange of Publications, Chief Secre- 
tary's Office, Brisbane. 

Rumania: International Exchange Service, Biblioteca Centrala de Stat, Bu- 
charest. 

South Austbalia: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern- 
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide. 

Spain : Junta de Intercambio y Adquisici6n de Libros y Revistas para Bibliote- 
cas Piiblicas, Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional, Madrid. 

Sweden : Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm. 

Switzerland: Service Suisse des iSchanges Internationaux, Biblioth&que Cen- 
trale Fed^rale, Palais FM^ral, Berne. 

Tasmania : Secretary of the Premier, Hobart. 

Turkey : National Library, Ankara. 

Union of South Africa: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape 
Town. 

Union of Soviet Socialist Republics : Bureau of Book Exchange, State Lenin 
Library, Moscow. 

Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 

Western Australia : State Library, Perth. 

Yugoslavia : Bibliograf ski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade. 

Dan G. Williams, Jr., who was employed by the Smithsonian In- 
stitution on February 25, 1946, and who was promoted to Chief, In- 
ternational Exchange Service, on August 22, 1948, transferred to the 
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Birmingham, Ala., 
on March 7, 1958. The undersigned was appointed Chief of the 
Service on March 10, 1958. 

Respectfully submitted. 

J. A. Collins, Chief. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the National Gallery of Art 

Sir : I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees, 
the twenty-first annual report of the National Gallery of Art, for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1958. This report is made pursuant to the 
provisions of section 5 (d) of Public Kesolution No. 14, 75th Congress, 
first session, approved March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51). 

ORGANIZATION 

The statutory members of the Board of Trustees of the National 
Gallery of Art are the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secre- 
tary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution, ex officio. The five general trustees 
continuing in office during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958, were 
Chester Dale, Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Duncan Phillips, Paul 
Mellon, and Rush H. Kress. On May 1, 1958, Chester Dale was 
reelected by the Board of Trustees to serve as President of the Gallery 
and Ferdinand Lammot Belin was reelected Vice President. 

The executive officers of the Gallery as of June 30, 1958, are as 
follows : 

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treas- Ernest R. Feidler, Administrator. 

urer. Huntington Cairns, General Counsel. 

John Walker, Director, Perry B. Cott, Chief Curator. 

The three standing committees of the Board, as constituted at the 
annual meeting on May 1, 1958, were as follows : 

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 

Chief Justice of the United States, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu- 

Earl Warren, Chairman. tion, Leonard Carmichael. 

Chester Dale, Vice Chairman. Paul Mellon. 

Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 

FINANCE COMMITTEE 

Secretary of the Treasury, Robert B. Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu- 

Anderson, Chairman. tion, Leonard Carmichael. 

Chester Dale, Vice Chairman. Paul Mellon. 
Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 

ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE 

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Chairman. Paul Mellon. 

Duncan Phillips. John Walker. 

Chester Dale. 

196 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 197 

PERSONNEL 

On June 30, 1958, full-time Government employees on the staff of 
the National Gallery of Art numbered 317 as compared with 313 
employees as of June 30, 1957. The United States Civil Service regu- 
lations govern the appointment of employees paid from appropriated 
public funds. 

Negotiations with the Civil Service Commission which had ex- 
tended over several years finally resulted in raising the grade level 
of the guard staff one full grade. In addition, 18 other positions 
were reclassified upward, including the Curator of Education, the 
Curator of the Index of American Design, and the Curator of Graphic 
Arts. 

APPROPRIATIONS 

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958, Congress in the regular 
annual appropriation for the National Gallery of Art provided 
$1,645,000 to be used for salaries and expenses in the operation and 
upkeep of the Gallery, the protection and care of works of art acquired 
by the Board of Trustees, and all administrative expenses incident 
thereto, as authorized by Joint Resolution of Congress approved March 
24, 1937 (20 U.S.C. 71-75; 50 Stat. 51). Congress also included in 
a supplemental appropriation act $31,580 to cover pay increases au- 
thorized by P.L. 85-462, approved June 20, 1958. The total appro- 
priation for the fiscal year was $1,676,580. The following expenditures 
and encumbrances were incurred: 

Personal services $1, 360, 824. 00 

Other than personal services 315, 756. 00 

Total 1, 676, 580. 00 

ATTENDANCE 

There were 913,481 visitors to the Gallery during the fiscal year 
1958, as compared to 942,196 for the fiscal year 1957. The average 
daily number of visitors was 2,516. 

ACCESSIONS 

There were 1,730 accessions by the National Gallery of Art as gifts, 
loans, or deposits during the fiscal year. 

Gifts 

The following 6 paintings and 1,310 bronzes were given to the Na- 
tional Gallery of Art by the Samuel H. Kress Foundation in exchange 
for 26 paintings and 6 pieces of sculpture : 



198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN rNSTITUTION, 1958 

Artist ime 

Van Dyck Dona Polyxena Spinola Guzman de Leganes. 

Rubens Decius Mus Addressing the Legions. 

Titian Vincenzo Capello. 

El Greco _- Christ Cleansing the Temple. 

Andrea del Sarto Charity. 

Titian St. John the Evangelist on Patmos. 

Florentine School, XVI Cen- Lion (bronze), 
tury. 

Sienese School, XV Century The Capitoline Wolf (bronze). 

Francesco di Giorgio Winged Figure with Cornucopia (bronze). 

Warin Cardinal Richelieu (bronze). 

Various 1,306 small bronzes. 

Col. and Mrs. E. W. Garbisch gave "Mount Auburn Cemetery, 
Cambridge," by Thomas Chambers, in exchange for two portraits by 
Erastus Field which they had previously given to the Gallery. 

During the year the following gifts or bequests were also accepted 
by the Board of Trustees: 

PAINTINGS 
Donor Artist Title 

Chester Dale Stuart Sir Robert Liston. 

Eugene S. Pleasonton Neagle Colonel Augustus James 

Pleasonton. 

Lewis Einstein Veronese Agostino Barberigo. 

Clarence Y. Palitz Lucas Cranach the Nymph of Spring. 

Elder. 

Mrs. Mary E. Carnegie Sargent Mrs. Joseph Chamberlain. 

Gen. Charles L. Linde- Courbet La Grotte de la Loue. 

mann. 

Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Unknown Mr. Willson. 

bisch. 

Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Badger Captain Isaac Foster. 

bisch. 

Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Badger Mrs. Isaac Foster. 

bisch. 

Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Badger Dr. Isaac Foster, Jr. 

bisch. 

Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Badger Dr. William Foster. 

bisch. 

Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Chipman Melons and Grapes. 

bisch. 

Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Unknown Aurora — Goddess of the 

bisch. Morning. 

Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Coe Henry V/. Houston. 

bisch. 

Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Unknown ^__ The Dog. 



bisch. 



DECORATIVE ARTS 



George D. Widener and French-Eighteenth Paneled Room mth Ap- 
Mrs. Eleanor W. Dixon. Century. pointments. 



Secretary's Report, 1958 



PLATE 1 1 




St. John the Evangelist on Patmos: Titian. Samuel H. Kress Collection, National Gallery 

of Art. 




Christ Cleansing the Temple: El Greco. Samuel H. Kress Collection, National Gallery 

of Art. 



Secretary's Report. 1938 



PLATE 12 




Decius Mus Addressing the Legions: Peler Paul Rubens. Samuel H. Kress Collection, 

National Gallery of An. 




La Grotte de la Loue: Gustave Courbet. Gift of Charles L. Lindemann to the National 

Gallery of Art. 



Secretary's Report. 1958 



Plate 13 





Secretary's Report, 1958 



Plate 14 





U 



Ui 



^< 



■o 



H 



U 



> 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 199 

PRINTS AND DRAWINGS 

Donor Artist Tide 

Lessing J. Rosenwald Burgkmair The Battle of Padua, 

Lessing J. Rosenwald Master of Cologne Christ and the Woman of 

Anns. Samaria. 

Lessing J. Rosenwald Anonymous German. Calvary. 

(Purchased from Print Homer 30 wood engravings. 

Purchase Fund). 

(Purchased from Print Homer 2 lithographs. 

Purchase Fund). 

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN 

The following works of art were received on loan by the Gallery: 

From: Artist 

Chester Dale, New York, N.Y.: 

The Seine at Giverny Monet. 

Blue Morning Bellows. 

Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, N.Y.: 

Bronze Andiron (Mars) Sansovino. 

Bronze Andiron (Venus) Sansovino. 

Altar Candlestick Briosco. 

Madonna and Child French School, First Half 

XIV Century. 

Saint Mary Cleophas and Her Family Strigel. 

Col. and Mrs. Edgar W. Garbisch, New York, N.Y.: 

Twenty-three early American paintings. 
Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D.C.: 

Seven objects of Pre-Columbian art. 
Mrs. Eugene Meyer, Washington, D.C.: 

Still Life Manet. 

Chateau Noir Cezanne. 

Vase of Flowers Cezanne. 

The Sailor Cezanne. 

Still Life Cezanne. 

Stiil Life Dufresne. 

Nude Renoir. 

Man Lying on a Sofa Renoir. 

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN RETURNED 

The following works of art on loan were returned during the fiscal 
year: 

To: Artist 

Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D.C.: 

Twelve objects of Pre-Columbian art. 
Col. and Mrs. Edgar W. Garbisch, New York, N.Y.: 

Twenty-four early American paintings. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Wrightsman, Palm Beach, 
Fla.: 

La Causette Pissarro, 

Sketch for the Staircase Ceiling in Wurzburg-. Tiepolo. 
492520—59 14 



200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

To: Artist 
Mrs. Eugene Meyer, Washington, D.C.: 

Still Life Manet. 

Chateau Noir Cezanne. 

Vase of Flowers Cezanne. 

The Sailor Cezanne. 

Still Life Cezanne. 

Still Life Dufresne. 

Nude Renoir. 

Man Lying on a Sofa Renoir. 

WORKS OF ART LENT 

During the fiscal year the Gallery lent the following works of art 
for exhibition purposes: 

To: Artist 

American Embassy, Paris: 

America (tapestry) --- 17th Century Brussels. 

The Flight into Egypt (drawing) — Tiepolo. 

Design for Fresco for a Ceiling Tiepolo. 
(drawing). 
American Embassy, Brussels: 

Apollo and Daphne (tapestry) Gobelins, French SchooL 

Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa.: 

Siegfried and the Rhine Maidens___ Ryder. 

The White Girl Whistler. 

Connecticut Historical Society, Hart- 
ford, Conn. : 

Girl in Pink Dress Unknown. 

Lady with Plumed Headdress Unknown. 

Charles Adams Wheeler Unknown. 

Father and Son Buddington. 

Brooklyn Museum, Brooklyn, N.Y. : 

Mrs. Richard Yates Stuart. 

New York State Historical Association, 
Cooperstown, N.Y. : 

Alice Slade Unknown. 

Joseph Slade Unknown. 

International Exhibition, Brussels: 

Miss Van Alen Attributed to P. Vanderlyn. 

Flowers and Fnjit Unknown. 

Flax Scutching Bee Park, 

Benjamin Reber's Farm Hofman. 

The Trotter Unknown. 

Baltimore Museum of Art, Baltimore, 
Md.: 

Right and Left Homer. 

Woodlawn Plantation, Mt. Vernon, Vir- 
ginia: 

General Washington at Princeton__ Polk. 
Alexander Hamilton Bicentennial Com- 
mission, Washington, D.C. : 

Alexander Hamilton Trumbull. 

Virginia 350th Anniversary, Jamestown 
Festival, Williamsburg, Va. : 

Pocahontas British School. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 201 

EXHIBITIONS 

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of Art 
during the fiscal year 1958 : 

"One Hundred Years of Architecture in America," exhibition 
celebrating the Centennial of the American Institute of Arcliitects. 
Continued from previous fiscal year, through July 14, 1957. 

American Primitive Paintings from the Collection of Edgar 
William and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch — a selection of the outstand- 
ing works from the first two exhibitions of this Collection at the 
National Gallery of Art. July 24, 1957, through September 16, 1957. 

American Paintings from the Collection of the National Gallery 
of Art. August 1, 1957, through September 15, 1957. 

The Art of William Blake — commemorating the 200th anniversary 
of the birth of the artist. October 19, 1957, through December 1, 
1957. 

Exhibition of Masterpieces of Korean Art, sponsored by the Gov- 
ernment of the Republic of Korea. December 15, 1957, through 
January 12, 1958. 

Illuminated Manuscript Pages from the Rosenwald Collection, and 
North Italian Engravings from the Rosenwald Collection and Gifts 
from W. G. Russell Allen. December 21, 1957, through February 
12, 1958. 

The Fantastic, the Occult, and the Bizarre in Prints from the 
Rosenwald Collection. March 15, 1958, through May 11, 1958. 

Exhibition of Photographs by Alfred Stieglitz. March 16, 1958, 
through April 27, 1958. 

American Paintings from the Collection of the National Gallery 
of Art. May 16, 1958, to continue into the next fiscal year. 

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS 

Rosenwald Collection. — Special exhibitions of prints from the 
Rosenwald Collection were circulated to the following places during 
the fiscal year 1958 : 

Achenbach Foundation for Graphic Arts, California Palace of the Legion of 
Honor, San Francisco, Calif. : 
"The Printmaker 1450-1950," 26 

prints September 1957. 

Los Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles, Calif. : 

"Jacques Callot," 59 prints September 17-October 20, 1957. 

Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, Washington, D.C. : 
"Contemporary German Prints" (exhibition tour). 

Extended from October 1957 through the spring of 1958. 
American Federation of Arts, Nev? York, N.Y. : 

"The Life of Christ in Prints," a circulating exhibition of 50 prints. 



202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Indiana University Art Gallery, Bloomington, Ind. : 
"Baudelaire and the Graphic Arts," 

10 prints and drawings October 25-November 17, 1957. 

Whitechapel Art Gallery, London, England : 

S. W. Hayter, 2 prints November 1957. 

Cosmopolitan Club of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pa. : 

Blake, 10 prints and 1 drawing November 1957, last 3 weeks. 

Smith College Museum of Art, Northhampton, Mass. : 
Special study exhibition of Renais- 
sance art, 16 prints November 18-December 20, 1957. 

Curi'ier Gallery of Art, Manchester, N.H. : 

Christmas Exhibition, 20 prints November 27-December 29, 1957. 

Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pa. : 
Large retrospective Picasso Exhibi- 
tion, 15 prints December 1957. 

University of Minnesota, Duluth Branch, Duluth, Minn. : 

Christmas Exhibition, 1 print December 1957. 

Fine Arts Gallery of San Diego, San 
Diego, Calif. : 

"The Madonna in Art," 3 prints December 6-29, 1957. 

Columbia Museum of Art, Columbia, S.C. : 
Picasso, "Sculptor's Studio," 46 

prints February 1-28, 1958. 

Art Department, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Ind. : 
Lenten Exhibition (Passion of 
Christ), 3 sets of Diirer prints (63 

prints in all) February 26-April 5, 1958. 

Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pa. : 
"Original Pieces of Sculpture by 
Aristide Maillol," 2 prints, 2 
drawings (to show with above ex- 
hibition) April 15-May 15, 1958. 

Barber-Scotia College, Concord, N.C. : 

Festival of Fine Arts. 30 prints May 1-17, 1958. 

Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Serv- 
ice, Washington, D. C. : 
Exhibition, "George Bellows — Prints 
and Drawings," 19 prints Extended from May 1958 through De- 
cember 1958. 
Museum of Art of Ogunquit, Ogunquit, Maine : 
Mary Cassatt, 14 prints and draw- 
ings June 15, through first week in Sep- 
tember 1958. 

Index of American Design. — During the fiscal year 1958, 18 travel- 
ing exhibitions (including 870 plates) with 26 bookings were circu- 
lated in the following States : 

Number of Number of 

State exhibitions State exhibitions 

California 1 Pennsylvania 9 

Colorado 1 Tennessee 2 

Connecticut 2 Texas 2 

New Jersey 1 Utah 7 

New York 1 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 203 

Two traveling exhibitions (including 71 plates) with 14 bookings 
in 11 States were circulated bj the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibi- 
tion Service. 

Four traveling exhibitions (including 110 plates) with 7 bookings in 
Virginia were circulated by the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts. 

One traveling exhibition (including 80 plates) was circulated by 
the United States Information Agency in Germany. 

CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES 

The curatorial department accessioned 1,383 gifts to the Gallery 
during the fiscal year 1958. Advice was given regarding 341 works 
of art brought to the Gallery for expert opinion and nine visits to col- 
lections were made by members of the staff in connection with offers 
of gifts or for expert opinion. About 2,150 inquiries requiring re- 
search were answered verbally and by letter. 

Dr. Perry B. Cott, chief curator, was a guest of the Federal Re- 
public of Germany for a 4-week tour of German museums with a 
group of American museum officials. Dr. Cott gave the following 
lectures during the year: "Some German Art Centers Revisited — 
1957" before the Municipal Art Society of Baltimore, Md., and "Ob- 
servations on Italian and Spanish Painting in the Samuel H. Kress 
Collection" at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, Tex. He also 
spoke on "Business and the Arts" on the occasion of the opening of 
the Samuel H. Kress Collection in the Brooks Memorial Art Gallery, 
Memphis, Tenn. Dr. Erwin O. Christensen, curator of decorative 
arts, gave seven lectures to USIA groups and two lectures to National 
Education Association schoolteachers on the Index of American De- 
sign. Miss Elizabeth Mongan, curator of graphic arts, spoke on 
Blake at the Cosmopolitan Club in Philadelphia, Pa. Dr. Hereward 
Lester Cooke, museum curator, spoke on the Gallery LecTour at the 
annual meeting of the American Association of Museums in Charles- 
ton, S.C. Dr. Katharine Shepard, assistant curator of graphic arts, 
gave a talk on print techniques to a group of young women from the 
Washington area. Miss Elizabeth Benson, assistant registrar, spoke 
to a group of women from the Washington area on "Venice in 
Painting." 

William P. Campbell, curator of painting, assisted in the judging 
of art exhibitions sponsored by the National League of American Pen 
Women and the Delmarva Chicken Festival, Denton, Md. Thomas 
P. Baird, museum curator, assisted in the judging of exhibitions for 
the Christmas Greens on Capitol Hill, the Arts Club of Washington, 
St. John's Church, Georgetown, Church of the Blessed Sacrament, 
Chevy Chase, and an exhibition held in The Plains, Va. 



204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Miss Mongan served on the selection committee for the Exhibition 
of French Drawings from American collections to be held at the Boy- 
mans Museum, Rotterdam, and at the Orangerie in Paris. She also 
served on the board of directors of the Print Council of America and 
on its executive committee, and is on the American Jury of Selection 
of the International Graphic Society, Inc. Dr. Shepard served as 
secretary of the Washington Society of the Archaeological Institute 
of America, and on the local committee of arrangements for the gen- 
eral meeting of the Archaeological Institute of America. Mr. Baird 
served on the committee for the annual meeting of the College Art 
Association held in Washington, D.C. 

The Richter Archives received and cataloged over 2,000 photo- 
graphs on exchange from museums here and abroad, and 3,610 photo- 
graphs were purchased for the Richter Archives. 

RESTORATION 

Francis Sullivan, resident restorer of the Gallery, made regular 
and systematic inspection of all works of art in the Gallery, 
and periodically removed dust and bloom as required. He relined 9 
paintings and gave special treatment to 46 paintings and 3 pieces of 
sculpture. Thirty-two paintings were X-rayed as an aid in research. 
Experiments were continued with the application of 27H and other 
synthetic varnishes developed by the National Gallery of Art Fel- 
lowship at the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research, Pittsburgh, 
Pa. Mr. Sullivan consulted with artists and engineers in New York 
on a new type of fluorescent incandescent light. Subsequently, 10 
units of these fixtures were installed in the restoration studio. Tech- 
nical advice on condition and the care of paintings was given when 
works of art were brought to the Gallery, and such technical infor- 
mation as could be given when requested by the public. He inspect- 
ed all Gallery paintings on loan in Government buildings in Wash- 
ington, and also gave advice on and special treatment to works of art 
belonging to other Government agencies, including the Wliite House, 
the Freer Gallery of Art, the Capitol, the Treasury, and the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

PUBLICATIONS 

Dr. Fern Rusk Shapley, assistant chief curator, wrote an article 
for the magazine Art in America, Fall 1957, entitled "Old Masters." 
Dr. Christensen contributed the following articles for magazines: 
"Opportunities for Research through the Index of American Design 
and Related Washington Institutions" for the College Art Journal, 
Fall of 1957 ; "Pennsylvania German Folk Arts" for Art in America, 
Fall of 1957 ; and "A Study of Body Design" for Ford Times, Septem- 
ber 1957. He also wrote "American Folk Sculpture" for A Concise 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 205 

Encyclopedia of American Antiques^ vols. 1 and 2, 1958, published 
by Hawthorne Books. John Pancoast, registrar, reviewed "Museum 
Registration Methods" for the Museum News. Dr. Cooke wrote an 
article on George Bellows for the America magazine. JN^Iembers of the 
curatorial staff assisted in the installation of the exhibitions and 
publication of the catalogs for the Korean, Blake, and Stieglitz 
exhibitions. 

During the past fiscal year the Publications Fund published 2 new 
ll-by-14-inch color reproductions, 3 new color and 8 new black-and- 
white postcards. Four additional large collotype reproductions of 
paintings on exhibition were produced by outside publishers and 
placed on sale by the fund. 

The A. W. Mellon Lecture in the Fine Arts by Dr. fitienne Gilson, 
entitled "Painting and Reality," published in book form, was placed 
on sale. The following additional books related to the collection or 
with text by a staff member were made available: Pre-Columbian 
Art, A Guide to Art Museums in the U. S. — East Coast, and Three 
Hundred Years of American Painting. A revised second edition of 
Looking at Italian Pictures in the National Gallery of Art was pub- 
lished by the Fund. 

Other new items made available during the year include the record- 
ing of Richard Bales's cantata, "The Union," on sculpture reproduc- 
tion, and playing cards reproducing two National Gallery paintings. 

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM 

The program of the Educational Office was carried out under the 
supervision of the curator in charge of educational work and his 
staff who lectured and conducted guided tours in the Gallery on the 
works of art in its collection. 

The attendance for the general tours, Congressional tours, "Tours 
of the Week," and "Pictures of the Week" totaled 43,983, while that 
of the auditorium lectures on Sunday afternoons was approximately 
12,914 during the fiscal year 1958. 

Tours, lectures, and conferences were arranged by special appoint- 
ment for 284 groups and individuals. The total number of people 
served in this manner was 8,097, an increase over last year of 457 
persons. These special appointments were made for such groups as 
the various governmental agencies, educators (foreign and Ameri- 
can), religious groups, heads of museums, radio and television repre- 
sentatives, and convention groups. 

The program of training volunteer docents continued during the 
fiscal year. Seventy- four ladies were given special instruction under 
the general supervision of the curator in charge of educational work. 
By special arrangement with the school systems of the District. of 



206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Columbia and surrounding counties of Maryland and Virginia these 
ladies assisted in conducting tours for 1,101 classes, with a total of 
32,548 children, an increase over last year of 9,987. 

The staff of the Educational Office delivered 20 lectures in the audi- 
torium on Sunday afternoons. Twenty-four lectures were given by 
guest speakers, and during March and April Sir Anthony Bkmt de- 
livered the Seventh Annual Series of six A. W. Mellon Lectures in 
the Fine Arts on the theme "Poussin and French Classicism." 

The Educational Department has nine sets of traveling exhibitions 
which are circulated to schools, libraries, universities, clubs, etc., 
throughout the United States, and were viewed by approximately 
20,000 persons. Sixteen copies of the film "Your National Gallery of 
Art" are on permanent loan in distribution centers throughout the 
country, and a new film on the Gallery "Art in the Western World" 
is available for local viewers. The Educational Office continued the 
slide-strip sale and during the year a total of 37 sets of strips con- 
taining about 300 slides each were placed in Educational Institu- 
tions. The sales of the filmstrip "The Art of the Florentine Golden 
Age in the National Gallery of Art" totaled 64. 

During the past year 235 persons borrowed a total of 7,239 slides 
from the slide lending collection. 

Members of the staff prepared leaflets on works of art in individual 
galleries, and prepared mimeographed material for school tours ; pre- 
pared and recorded 20 radio broadcasts for use during intermission 
periods of the National Gallery of Art concerts broadcast each Sun- 
day evening, and for circulation through audio- visual centers through- 
out the country. 

A printed Calendar of Events announcing all the National Gallery 
activities was prepared and distributed by the Educational Office to 
a mailing list of approximately 5,700 names. 

Dr. Stites visited museums, monuments, important houses and land- 
marks, for the purpose of photographing for a new filmstrip on Amer- 
ican painting. He held meetings with religious and cultural groups, 
and judged art shows for embassies, Government agencies, and others. 
He recorded talks for the Voice of America, gave the commencement 
address at Montgomery Jmiior College, and attended cultural awards 
dinner of the Scholastic Magazine. Dr. Evans judged art shows for 
the Navy and for community activities groups, gave a slide lecture to 
the National Convention of Penwomen and set up a teachers' aids ex- 
hibition for the Arlington County schools. Dr. Evans also made an 
8-day survey tour of eastern audio-visual centers, for the National 
Gallery's extension program. Dr. Bouton wrote articles on various 
artists for the Encyclopaedia Britannica and attended a meeting of 
the Washington Committee of Educational Television. Mrs. Michel- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 207 

son consulted with educators of the Fairfax County schools, judged 
art shows at the Hecht Company and at the National Collection of 
Fine Arts, where she also exhibited. She delivered a lecture at the 
National Housing Center. 

LIBRARY 

The most important acquisitions to the Library this year were 621 
books, pamphlets, periodicals, and subscriptions, and 3,610 photo- 
graphs which were purchased from private funds. A total of 34 
books and subscriptions were purchased from Government funds 
made available for this purpose. Gifts to the library included 1,024 
books and pamphlets; 836 books, pampMets, and periodicals were 
received on exchange from other institutions. More than 490 visits 
were made by other than National Gallery staff to the Library for 
study and research during this year, and approximately 1,600 tele- 
phone requests for information were handled in the Library. 

The Library is the depository for photographs of the works of art 
in the collections of the National Gallery of Art. A stock of repro- 
ductions is maintained for use in research by the curatorial and other 
departments of the Gallery, for dissemination of knowledge to quali- 
fied sources, for exchange with other institutions, and for sale at the 
request of any interested individual. Approximately 5,400 photo- 
graphs were received in the Library and processed for the Library's 
stock in this fiscal year of 1958. Approximately 1,100 requests were 
handled of which 1,059 orders were actually filled, 373 by mail and 
686 over the counter. Sales to the general public amounted to 
$1,156.33 covering approximately 1,500 photographs. There were 295 
permits for reproduction of 778 subjects processed m the Library. 

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN 

The work of the Index continued as usual and in addition included, 
this year, the processing for preservation of some 17,200 renderings. 
Approximately 533 persons studied Index material for research pur- 
poses, and to gather material for publication and design. The circu- 
lation of traveling exhibitions of Index renderings continued during 
the year (see exhibitions) ; and approximately 146 slides were lent 
for lecture and study purposes. 

The curator of the Index continued to take part in the orientation 
program of the USIA pei-sonnel, and delivered seven lectures on the 
purpose of the Index and on folk arts and crafts in the United States. 

The curator of the Index is also curator of decorative arts, and in 
that capacity undertook preparation of a guide on "Objects of Medi- 
eval Art." The work of labeling the Chinese porcelains was also 
begun. 



208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

MAINTENANCE OF THE BUILDING AND GROUNDS 

Throughout the fiscal year the Gallery building, its equipment, and 
its grounds have been maintained at the established standards. 

The conversion of the elevator in the west wing of the Gallery 
building from manual control to automatic operation was completed 
in January 1958. Accordingly, for the first time since the opening 
of the Gallery in 1941, this elevator is regularly available to the gen- 
eral public. 

In the outer lobby of the Constitution Avenue entrance two new 
marble benches were installed. It is believed that these are more in 
keeping with the general appearance of the Gallery than the wood 
benches they replaced. 

In March 1958 the shipping door at the northeast moat was replaced 
with an aluminum door more easily opened and closed than the door 
which has served the Gallery since its inception. 

In January 1958 the installation of LecTour, an electronic guide 
system, was completed in 10 galleries. The device was made available 
to the public the first Monday in February. From that time to the 
end of the fiscal year 24,651 persons used this guide service. 

For the Korean exhibition, the Gallery staff, working in conjunc- 
tion with designers from the Smithsonian Institution, created an 
unusual installation, using special designs in vertical cases, wall 
cases, and special bases. The installation was unique in its field and 
was unusually well received by the public. 

The expansion of the Gallery's horticultural program continued 
during the year, and the current annual production of plants and 
flowers for the garden courts, special exhibitions, etc., is valued at 
$24,000, compared to less than $6,000 before the greenhouse and cold- 
house were made available to the Gallery's horticulturist late in 1954. 
Additionally, it is now estimated that in the greenhouse and growing 
beds for future use there are plant materials having a value in excess 
of $40,000. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

Forty Sunday evening concerts were given during the fiscal year 
in the East Garden Court. The National Gallery of Art Orchestra, 
conducted by Richard Bales, played nine concerts in the Gallery, 
two of which were made possible by the Music Performance Trust 
Fund of the American Federation of Musicians. A string orchestra 
conducted by Mr. Bales furnished music during the opening of the 
Korean Exhibition on December 14, 1957, and at the opening of the 
Stieglitz Exhibition on March 15, 1958. A special concert was given 
on June 15, 1958, in the Lecture Hall for representatives of radio 
and television stations in the East. The National Gallery Orchestra 
with the Church of the Reformation Choir presented Mr. Bales's two 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 209 

cantatas "The Confederacy" and "The Union" m Constitution Hall 
in October 1957. Early in 1958 Columbia Records released its record- 
ing of "The Union." During March 1958 Mr. Bales appeared as guest 
conductor at the Eleventh Annual Folk Music Festival in Wilmington, 
Ohio, in performance of one of his compositions. Five Sunday eve- 
nings during May and June 1958 were devoted to the Gallery's Fif- 
teenth American Music Festival. All the concerts were broadcast 
in their entirety by WGMS-AM and FM in Washington. The inter- 
missions during Sunday evening concerts featured discussions by 
members of the Educational Office staff and Mr. Bales. 

Dui-ing the fiscal year 3,104 copies of 12 press releases were issued 
in connection with Gallery activities. One hundred twenty-eight 
permits to copy paintings and 166 permits to photograph in the Gal- 
lery were also issued. 

The Photographic Laboratory of the Gallery produced 11,680 
prints, 733 black-and-white slides, 733 color slides, 1,811 black-and- 
white negatives, 70 color-separation negatives, 171 color transparen- 
cies, 63 inf rareds, 33 ultraviolets, and 103 enlargements. 

During the fiscal year a program was undertaken to distribute sets 
of 500 color slides (2" x 2'') to a number of educational institutions. 
The first distribution was made in groups of 100 slides to 103 institu- 
tions. Subsequent sets will be shipped in groups of 100 each until the 
project is completed. 

OTHER GIFTS 

Gifts of money were made during the fiscal year 1958 by the Old 
Dominion Foundation, Avalon Foundation, George M. and Pamela 
A. Hiunphrey Fund, Miss Anita Eattner, Howell Foreman, and 
Mrs. Oma Jeane Rauh. 

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY 

An audit of the private funds of the Gallery will be made for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1958, by Price Waterhouse & Co., public 
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination 
of the accoimting records maintained for such funds will be for- 
warded to the Gallery. 
Respectfully submitted. 

Huntington Cairns, Secretary. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Library 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi- 
ties of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1958 : 

Of the 63,274 publications received in the library, 1,394 were books 
and periodicals that could not be obtained in exchange. Extra funds 
made available during the year for the purchase of books and peri- 
odicals made it possible to fill in gaps in some fields. Back issues of 
periodicals and some of the much-needed out-of-print reference ma- 
terials are being acquired even though in many instances they are 
difficult to locate. 

The backbone of the library's collection was enriched by the con- 
tinual flow of journals and monographs from scientific, cultural, and 
teclinical societies and organizations all over the world, which were 
received in exchange for the Smithsonian publications. New ex- 
changes arranged this year totaled 128 and are to be added to the vast 
number already established. There were 788 special requests sent to 
issuing organizations or societies for back issues of publications to fill 
gaps in the library's collections. 

In addition, the library is greatly indebted to numerous organiza- 
tions and individuals for special gifts. Outstanding among these 
were the 6,659 pieces from the Melville collection on philately re- 
leased by the Library of Congress. From Stack's in New York 
came 18 volumes on numismatics. From the library of the late Dr. 
Raymond C. Shannon there were received 2,697 books and reprints 
chiefly on Diptera. From Dr. Mason E. Hale, Jr., came 22 parts of 
Rabenhorst's Kryptogamen Flora. 

There were 11,442 publications sent to the Library of Congress, plus 
6,176 books and periodicals, to be added to the Smithsonian Deposit. 
The others not individually recorded in the library, were documents, 
doctoral dissertations, and miscellaneous publications of no immedi- 
ate concern to the Institution. To the National Library of Medicine 
were sent 1,325 periodicals and dissertations, to the U.S. Book Ex- 
change 3,334 publications, and to other agencies 502 items. 

The circulation of books and periodicals in the reference and cir- 
culation section totaled 11,447. Added to this, 9,626 new publications 
were sent to sectional libraries for intramural circulation and filing. 
Since no record is kept of the use of the library's collections in the 
sectional libraries, no accurate numerical estimate can be made of the 

210 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 211 

actual use of books throughout the Institution. In all, 959 books 
were lent to 100 other libraries. Two outstanding loans were for the 
Theodore Roosevelt Centennial Exhibit at the Library of Congress. 
In addition the library's services were increased by 4,012 loans from 
other libraries, chiefly the Library of Congress, Department of Agri- 
culture, Geological Survey, and the National Library of Medicine. 

The 11,394 reference queries answered shows only a portion of the 
identifying, checking, searching, and locating required to supply the 
right answers to the many complex questions that are asked daily by 
the library's users. Of the 8,583 persons who came to the library, 
3,500 used the resources of the division of insects library. The lack 
of adequate reading areas in the main library is not conducive to quiet 
study and discourages users from availing themselves of the library's 
research facilities. 

The catalog section classified and cataloged 4,463 books and pam- 
phlets, entered 25,253 periodicals, and filed 26,768 cards. The staff 
of the catalog section participated in the west-stacks moving project 
in spite of the current work load which had to be met. Cards for all 
cataloged material that was discarded had to be taken out. Also 
there were 1,000 or more volumes pulled from the west stacks to bo 
cataloged and added to the permanent collection. A painstaking 
search of the card catalog and the library shelves had to be made 
before any of the duplicate material could be discarded. Steady prog- 
ress is being made on the cataloging of material in the department 
of science and technology. 

The catalog section prepared 9,000 volumes for binding or rebind- 
ing. Through a waiver from the Government Printing Office, the 
work was done by a commercial binder under contract. The fresh 
new buckram bindings not only preserve valuable research material 
but also add to the appearance of the shelves. In addition, 536 vol- 
umes requiring special handling by a skilled binder were repaired or 
rebound in the library. 

David Ray, a foreign-language specialist in the catalog section, 
translated 190 letters from other languages, including Russian, and 
provided reference assistance to staff members of the Institution on 
translations of obscure words and phrases. In April a class in scien- 
tific Russian, taught by Mr. Ray, was started for 25 members of the 
curatorial staff of the Natural History Museum to aid them in acquir- 
ing a reading knowledge of Russian scientific publications. 

The special project, started a year ago, of weeding out and removing 
the library's collections in the Smithsonian and Arts and Industries 
Buildings was almost completed at the end of the year. The dupli- 
cate and special collections which had been stored in the west stacks 
in the Smithsonian Building for the past 50 years have now all been 



212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

cleared from this area. Some of this material was kept for the In- 
stitution's use, the rest disposed of to various sources including the 
U.S. Book Exchange, the Library of Congress, and other Govern- 
ment agencies. The Watts de Peyster collection of about 5,000 
volumes, including a valuable collection of Napoleona, was deposited 
with the library of Franklin and Marshall College at Lancaster, Pa. 

The Bureau of American Ethnology library, after the discarding 
of some 6,750 items plus about 5,000 reprints, was shifted into this 
west-stack area. The east stacks and office library were both weeded 
for duplicates and no-longer-needed material, and the entire collec- 
tions from both areas were moved to other locations. The Astro- 
physical Observatory library, which had been in the Smithsonian 
Building, was shifted to the Arts and Industries Building. This 
east-stack area, which housed some 60,000 volumes, was entirely 
cleared of the library's collections and has been made available for 
other uses. 

The library housed on the second floor of the Arts and Industries 
Building has been undergoing a cleanup program since last summer. 
Here again duplicates and no-longer-needed publications have been 
pulled and discarded. A special crew hired for this project washed 
all shelves with soap and water, and all books are being cleaned with 
a vacuum cleaner. Altogether, 158,182 books, pamphlets, and period- 
icals (bound and unbound) were disposed of as a part of this project. 

The working collections in these two library-stack areas are now 
easily accessible, and shelving space has been made available for cur- 
rent accessions. Plans are in progress for the development of library 
facilities for the Museum of History and Technology. 

A similar project of weeding and discarding in the library at the 
National Zoological Park was undertaken to provide space for its 
working collection of books. In all, 750 volumes and pamphlets have 
been disposed of, and progress is being made on cataloging this col- 
lection. 

Most important of the changes on the library's staff during the 
year was the retirement of Mrs. Leila F. Clark as librarian on August 
31, 1957, after more than 29 years' service. Serving first as assistant 
librarian in charge of the National Museum library, she was ap- 
pointed Smithsonian librarian on February 2, 1942. During her ad- 
ministration the library contributed its efforts to the war activities, 
providing reference and research materials to the Institution's staff 
as well as to other Government agencies. The consolidation of the 
National Museum library with the Smithsonian library on November 
2, 1951, resulted in better and more economical library service to the 
whole Institution. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



213 



On September 23, 1957, Miss Ruth Blanchard, who had been chief 
of the catalog section, was appointed librarian. Another important 
change was the retirement on September 30, 1957, of Mrs. Elisabeth 
H. Gazin, chief of the reference and circulation section. Miss Janice 
S. Brown was appointed March 17, 1958, to fill this position. 

The librarian and the chief of the reference and circulation section 
attended the Special Libraries Association convention in Chicago, 
111., where they took advantage of the varied activities provided by 
the Association's museum division. 



SUMMARIZED STATISTICS 

ACCESSIONS 




Total 
recorded 
volumes, 

1958 



Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Congress 

Smithsonian main library (including former office and 

Museum libraries) 

Astrophysical Observatory (including Radiation and 

Organisms) 

Bureau of American Ethnology 

National Air Museum 

National Collection of Fine Arts 

National Zoological Park 

Total 



586, 722 

316, 503 

15, 036 

37, 716 

558 

14, 140 

4,218 



974, 893 



Unbound volumes of periodicals and reprints and separates from serial publi- 
cations, of which there are many thousands, have not been included in these 
totals. 

EXCHANGES 

New exchanges arranged 128 

Specially requested publications received 788 

CATALOGING 

Volumes cataloged 4, 463 

Catalog cards filed 26, 768 

PERIODICALS 

Periodical parts entered 25, 253 

5,154 were sent to the Smithsonian Deposit. 

CIRCULATION 

Loans of books and periodicals 11, 447 

Circulation in sectional libraries is not counted except in the division of insects. 



214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 



BINDING AND REPAIR 

Volumes sent to the bindery 9, 000 

Volumes repaired in the library 536 

Kespectfully submitted. 

Ruth E. Blanchard, Librarian. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on Publications 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi- 
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches for the year 
ended June 30, 1958 : 

The publications of the Smithsonian Institution are issued partly 
from federally appropriated funds (Smithsonian Reports and publi- 
cations of the National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, 
and the Astrophysical Observatory) and partly from private endow- 
ment funds (Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, publications of 
the Freer Gallery of Art, and some special publications). The Insti- 
tution also edits and publishes under the auspices of the Freer Gallery 
of Art the series Ars Orientalis, which appears under the joint im- 
print of the University of Michigan and the Smithsonian Institution. 
The second volume in this series appeared during the year. In addi- 
tion, the Smithsonian publishes a guide book, a picture pamphlet, 
postcards and a postcard folder, a color-picture album, color slides, a 
filmstrip on Smithsonian exhibits, a coloring book for children, and 
popular publications on scientific and historical subjects related to its 
important exhibits and collections for sale to visitors. Through its 
publication program the Smithsonian endeavors to cany out its 
founder's expressed desire for the diffusion of knowledge. 

During the year the Institution published 13 papers and title page 
and contents of 2 volumes in the Miscellaneous Collections; 1 Annual 
Report of the Board of Regents and separates of 18 articles in the 
General Appendix of the Report ; 1 Annual Report of the Secretary ; 
4 special publications and reprints of 1 of the series of mathematical 
tables and of 1 special publication. 

The United States National Museum issued 1 Annual Report, 2 
Bulletins, 17 Proceedings papers, and 8 papers in the series Contribu- 
tions from the United States National Herbarium. 

The Bureau of American Ethnology published 1 Annual Report 
and 4 Bulletins. 

The Astrophysical Observatory published 6 numbers in the series 
Smithsonian Contributions to Astrophysics. 

The National Collection of Fine Arts published 1 catalog, and the 
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, under the National Col- 
lection of Fine Arts, issued 1 catalog. 

215 

492520—59 15 



216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

The Freer Gallery of Art issued 1 publication, and a reprint of 
1 pamphlet. 

There were distributed 530,662 copies of publications and miscel- 
laneous items. Publications : 14 Contributions of Knowledge, 30,752 
Miscellaneous Collections, 8,709 Annual Reports and 19,418 pamplilet 
copies of Report separates, 1,060 War Background Studies, 40,857 
special publications, 152 reports of the Harriman Alaska Expedition, 
54,317 publications of the National Museum, 28,131 publications of 
the Bureau of American Ethnology, 21,635 publications of the Na- 
tional Collection of Fine Arts, 589 publications of the Freer Gallery 
of Art, 12,897 publications of the Astrophysical Observatory, 5,012 
reports of the American Historical Association, and 2,006 publica- 
tions not issued by the Smithsonian Institution. Miscellaneous 
items: 13 sets of North American Wildflowers and 1 Pitcher Plant 
volume, 46,039 guide books, 16,933 picture pamphlets, 172,114 post- 
cards and postcard folders, 16,796 color slides, 52,138 information 
leaflets, 57 New Museum of History and Technology pamphlets. 
There were also distributed 208 statuettes, 10 Viewmaster reels, and 
10 filmstrips and 5 filmstrip records. 

The 1958 allotment from Government funds of $158,500 for print- 
ing and binding was entirely obligated at the close of the year. 

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS 

In this series, under the immediate editorship of Ruth B. MacManus, 
there were issued title page and table of contents of volumes 131 and 
134, 4 papers in volume 134, 8 papers in volume 135, and whole volume 
133, as follows : 

Volume 131 

Title page and table of contents. (Piibl. 4310. ) [January] 1958, 

Volume 133 

Araucanian child life and its cultural bacligrouud, by Sister M. Inez HUger. 
439 pp., 90 pis., 10 figs. (Publ. 4297.) December 10, 1957. ($7.00.) 

Volume 134 

No. 9. The birds of Isla Coiba, by Alexander Wetmore. 105 pp., 4 pis., 15 figs. 

(Publ. 4295.) Julys, 1957. ($1.30.) 
No. 10. The medical and veterinary importance of cockroaches, by Louis M. Roth 

and Edwin R. Willis. 147 pp., 7 pis. (Publ. 4299.) December 19, 1957. 

($1.25.) 
No. 11. Anatomy and taxonomy of the mature naiads of the genus Plathemis 

(Odonata : Libellulidae) , by Harvey R. Levine. 28 pp., 25 figs. (Publ. 4301.) 

September 25, 1957. ( 30 cents. ) 
No. 12. Permian brachiopods from central Oregon, by G. Arthur Cooper. 79 pp., 

12 pis., 2 figs. (PubL4302.) December 9, 1957. ($1.30) 
Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 4311.) [February] 1958. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 217 

Volume 1S5 

No. 2. Morphology and taxonomy of the foraminiferal genus Pararotalia Le 
Calvez, 1949, by Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr., and Helen Tnppan. 24 pp., 5 pis., 
5 figs. (Publ. 4304.) December 3, 1957. (4.5 cents.) 

No. 3. Geology of Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone, by W. P. Woodring. 39 pp., 

3 pis., 3 figs. (Publ. 4304.) February 11, 195S. (Go cents.) 

No. 4. A new theory on Columbus's voyage through the Bahamas, by Edwin A. 

Link and Marion C. Link. 45 pp., 5 pis., 2 charts. (Publ. 4306.) .January 

20,1958. (90 cents.) 
No. 5. Mineralogical studies on Guatemalan jade, by William F. Foshag. 60 pp., 

4 pis., 2 figs. (Publ. 4307.) December 3, 1957. (SO cents.) 

No. 6. A revised interpretation of the external reproductive organs of male In- 
sects, by R. E. Snodgrass. 60 pp., 15 figs. (Publ. 4309.) December 8, 1957. 
(60 cents.) 

No. 7. The anatomy of the Labrador duck, Camptorliynclius lahradorins 
(Gmelin), by Philip S. Humphrey and Robert S. Butsch. 23 pp., 5 pis., 9 figs. 
(Publ. 4334.) May 28, 1958. ($1.00.) 

No. 8. Miscellaneous notes on fossil birds, by Alexander Wetmore. 11 pp., 5 pis. 
(Publ. 4335.) June 26, 1958. (30 cents.) 

No. 10. Periodicities in ionospheric data, by C. G. Abbot. 5 pp., 1 fig. (Publ. 
4a38. ) May 28, 1958. ( 15 cents. ) 

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS 

Report for 1956. — The complete volume of the Annual Report of the 
Board of Regents for 1956 was received from the printer December 6, 
1957: 

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing 
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year 
ended June 30, 1956. is+580 pp., 105 pis., 64 figs. (Publ. 4272.) 

The general appendix contained the following papers (Pubis. 4273- 
4290) : 

The edge of the sun, by Donald H. Menzel. 

The mystery of Mars, by H. P. Wilklns. 

The story of cosmic rays, by W. F. G. Swann. 

Atmospheric pollution in growing communities, by Frangois N. Frenkiel. 

Hurricanes, by R. C. Gentry and R. H. Simpson. 

Plautlike features In thunder-eggs and geodes, by Roland W. Brown. 

Exploration for the remains of giant ground sloths in Panama, by C. Lewis Gazin. 

The Kitimat story, by Angela Croome. 

Sewage treatment — how it is accomplished, by C. E. Keefer. 

Pioneer settlement in eastern Colombia, by Raymond E. Crist and Ernesto Guhl. 

The sources of animal behavior, by G. P. Wells. 

Rivers in the sea, by F. G. Walton Smith. 

A narrative of the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition, 1956, by Waldo L. 

Schmitt. 
Man as a maker of new plants and new plant communities, by Edgar Anderson. 
Project Coral Fish looks at Palau, by Frederick M. Bayer and Robert R. Harry- 

Ilofeu. 
Archeological work in Arctic Canada, by Henry B Collins. 



218 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

The Cherokees of North Carolina : Living memorials of the past, by William H. 

Gilbert, Jr. 
Dried meat — early man's travel ration, by Edward N. Wentworth. 

Report for 1957. — The Report of the Secretary, which will form part 
of the Annual Report of the Board of Regents to Congress, was issued 
January 17, 1958 : 

Report of the Secretary and financial report of the Executive Committee of the 
Board of Regents for the year ended June 30, 1957. x+204 pp., 9 pis. 
(Publ.4308.) 

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS 

The history of entomology in World War II, by Emory C. Gushing, vi-f 117 pp., 

9 pis., 2 figs. (Publ.4294.) [August] 1957. ($2.00.) 
The story of transportation, by E. John Long. 36 pp., illus. (Publ. 4312.) 

[June] 1958. (50 cents.) 
Adventures in science at the Smithsonian, by E. John Long and George Weiner. 

44 pp., illus. (Publ. 4341.) [May] 1958. (25 cents.) 
Coloring book of the Smithsonian Institution. 50 pp. (Publ. 4342.) [June] 

1958. (50 cents.) 

REPRINTS 

Smithsonian mathematical formulae and tables of elliptic functions, by Edwin 
P. Adams and R. L. Hippisley. Third reprint. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 
74, No. 1, Publ. 2672, 314 pp. [October] 1957. ($4.00.) 

The Smithsonian Institution. 49 pp., 29 illus. (Spec. Publ. 4145) [October] 
1957. (50 cents.) 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during 
the year under the immediate direction of John S. Lea, assistant chief 
of the division. The following publications were issued : 

REPORT 

The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30, 
1957. Pp. vi+1.37, illus., January 17, 19."iS. 

BULLETINS 

211. Life histories of North American blackbirds, orioles, tanagers, and allies, 
by Arthur Cleveland Bent. Pp. ix+549, 37 pis., February 27, 1958. 

215. Studies in Foraminifera, by Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr., and collaborators. 
Pp. VJ4-323, December 30, 1957. 

PROCEEDINGS 

Volume 105 
Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-iv, 585-618, June 16. 1958. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 219 

Volume 107 

No. 3381. Some littoral baruacles from the Tuamotu, Marshall, and Caroline 

Islands, by Dora Priaulx Henry. Pp. 25-38, 3 pis., October 21, 1957. 
No. 3382. A new species of Calanopia (Copepoda: Calanoida) from the 

Caribbean Sea, by Thomas E. Bowman. Pp. 39-45, 3 figs., September 4, 1957. 
No. 3383. The frogfishes of the family Antennariidae, by Leonard P. Schultz. 

Pp. 47-105, 8 figs., 14 pis., November 1, 1957. 
No. 3384. New American cynipid wasps from oak galls, by Lewis H. Weld. 

Pp. 107-122, 1 pi., October 23, 1957. 
No. 3385. The forarainiferal genus Ealyithysema and two new tropical Pacific 

species, by Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr. Pp. 123-12G, 1 pi., January 9, 1958. 
No. 3386. The leaf hopper tribe Alebrini (Homoptera, Cicadellidae), by David 

A. Young, Jr. Pp. 127-277, 39 figs., December 4, 1957. 
No. 3387. Two additional Miocene porpoises from the Calvert Cliffs, Mary- 
land, by Remington Kellogg. Pp. 279-337, 30 pis., December 9, 1957. 
No. 3388. Studies of seven siderites, by Edward P. Henderson and Stuart H. 

Perry. Pp. 339-403, 6 figs., 22 pis., January 31, 1958. 
No. 3389. New Neotropical wasps of the family Braconidae ( Hymenoptera ) 

in the U.S. National Museum, by C. F. W. Muesebeck. Pp. 405-461, 4 figs., 

January 27, 1958. 
No. 3390. North American copepods of the family Notodelphyidae, by Paul 

L. Illg. Pp. 463-649, 19 figs., April 28, 1958. 

Volume 10 S 

No. 3391. Pycnaspis splendens, new genus, new species, a new ostracoderm 

from the upper Ordovician of North America, by Tor 0rvig. Pp. 1-23, 5 figs., 

3 pis., April 10, 1958. 
No. 3392. Branchinecta cornigera, a new species of anostracan phyllopod 

from the State of Washington, by James B. Lynch. Pp. 25-37, 16 figs., April 

15, 1958. 
No. 3393. Type specimens of lice (order Anoplura) in the United States 

National Museum, by Phyllis T. Johnson. Pp. 39-49, May 27, 1958. 
No. 3394. A new North American bird-flea, by F. G. A. M. Smit Pp. 51-57, 

10 figs.. May 15, 1958. 
No. 3396. A redefinition of the butterfly genera Tatochila, Phulia, PiercoUas, 

and Baltia, with descriptions of related genera and subgenera, by William D. 

Field. Pp. 103-131, 40 figs., June 9, 1958. 
No. 3397. The systematic position of the bird genus Apalopteron, by H. G. 

Deignan. Pp. 133-138, 1 pi., June 16, 1958. 

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE U. S. NATIONAL HERBARIUM 

Volume 29 

Title page and table of contents. Pp. i-vi, November 15, 1957. 
Part 12. Notes on some Brazilian and other Leguminosae, by Arturo Burkhart. 
Pp. 54.5-551, November 15, 1957. 

Volume SO 
Title page and table of contents. Pp. i-v, November 15, 1957. 



220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Volume 31 

Title page and table of contents. Pp. i-v, February 4, 1958. 

Part 3. The Acanthaceae of Colombia, III, by Emery C. Leonard. Pp. x+323- 
781, figs. 119-274, February 4, 1958. 

Volume 32 

Part 3. A revision of the genus Chaetocalyx, by Velva E. Rudd. Pp. iii+207- 
245, 13 figs., February 6, 1958. 

Volume 33 

Whole volume. The Bromeliaceae of Colombia, by Lyman B. Smith. Pp. i-v -}- 
311, 88 figs., December 24, 1957. 

Volume 3 If 

Part 1. Diagnostic characteristics of the fruits and florets of economic species 
of North American Sporobolus, by Vera Lyola Colbry. Pp. iii+24, 2 figs., 4 
pis., December 17, 1957. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

The editorial work of the Bureau continued under the immediate 
direction of Mrs. Eloise B. Edelen. The following publications were 
issued during the year : 

ANNUAL REPORT 

Seventy-fourth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1956-1957. 
ii+28 pp., 2 pis. 1958. 

BULLETINS 

Bulletin 164. Anthropological Papers Nos. 49-56. x-f-356 pp., 75 pis., 5 figs., 
15 maps. December 2, 1957. 
No. 49. The Ormond Beach Mound, east-central Florida, by Jesse D. Jen- 
nings, Gordon R. Willey, and Marshall T. Newman. 
No. 50. Hair pipes in Plains Indian adornment, a study in Indian and White 

ingenuity, by John C. Ewers. 
No. 51. Observations on some nineteenth-century pottery vessels from the 

Upper Missouri, by Waldo R. Wedel. 
No. 52. Revaluation of the Eastern Siouan problem, with particular em- 
phasis on the Virginia branches — the Oceaneechi, the Saponi, and the 
Tutelo, by Carl F. Miller. 
No. 53. An areheological reconnaissance in southwestern Mexico, by Mat- 
thew W. Stirling. 
No. 54. Valladolid Maya enumeration, by John P. Harrington. 
No. 55. Letters to Jack Wilson, the Paiute Prophet, written between 1908 

and 1911, edited by Grace M. Dangberg. 
No. 56. Factionalism at Taos Pueblo, New Mexico, by William N. Fenton. 
Bulletin 165. Music of Acoma, Isleta, Cochiti, and Zuiii Pueblos, by Frances 
Densmore. xii+118 pp., 6 pis. August 15, 1957. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 221 

Bulletin 166. River Basin Surveys Papers, No. 8. Excavations in the McNary 
Reservoir Basin near Umatilla, Oregon, by Douglas Osborne. With appendixes 
by Marshall T. Newman, Arthur Woodward, W. J. Kroll, and B. H. McCleod. 
x+2.58 pp., 40 pis., G figs., 19 maps. December 31, 1957. 

Bulletin 167. Archeological investigations at the mouth of the Amazon, by 
Betty J. Meggers and Clifford Evans, xxviii+664 pp., 112 pis. 206 figs. Decem- 
ber 31, 1957. 

PUBUCATIONS OF THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

The editorial work of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 
continued under the immediate direction of Ernest E. Biebighauser. 
Tlie year's publications are as follows : 

SMITHSONIAN CONTIUBUTIONS TO ASTROPHYSICS 

Volume 2 

No. 5. Geomagnetism and the emission-line corona, 1950-19.53, by Barbara Bell 
and Harold Glazer. Pps. 51-107, 35 figs., November 27, 1957. 

No. 6. A new catalog of ancient novae, by Hsi Tse-tsung. Pp. 10&-130. His- 
torical records of meteor showers in China, Korea, and Japan, by Susumu 
Imoto and Ichiro Hasegawa. Pp. 131-144. February 12, 1958. 

No. 7. Distribution of meteoritic debris about the Arizona meteorite crater, by 
John S. Rinehart. Pp. 145-160, 9 figs., January 28, 19.58. 

No. 8. Sunspots and geomagnetism, by Barbara Bell and Harold Glazer. Pp. 
161-179, 12 figs, March 13, 1958. 

No. 9. On two parameters used in the physical theory of meteors, by Luigi G. 
Jacchia. Pp. 181-187, 3 figs., June 18, 1958. 

No. 10. Orbital data and preliminary analyses of satellites 1957 Alpha and 1957 
Beta, by various authors. Pp. iii-vii-}- 189-347, May 23, 1958. 

PUBLICATION.S OF THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 

A retrospective exhibition of sculpture by Paul Man.ship. With foreword, "An 

Appreciation," by Thomas M. Beggs. 31 pp., illus. 1958. 
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibitions, 1958-1959. 32 pp. 1958. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Ars Orientalis, vol. 2. vii-f-639 pp., 224 pis., 123 fgs. (Publ. 4298.) 1957. 
($31.00.) 

REPRINT 

The Freer Gallery of Art of the Smithsonian Institution. 16 pp., 8 pis., 3 figs. 
(Publ. 4185.) 1958. 

REPORTS OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION 

The annual reports of the ximerican Historical Association are 
transmitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution and are bj' him communicated to Congress, as provided in 



222 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

the act of incorporation of the Association. The following reports 
were issued during the year : 

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the year 1954. Vol. 2. 

Writings on American History, 1952. 1958. 
Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the year 1956. 

Vol. 1. Proceedings. 1957. 

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN 

REVOLUTION 

The manuscript of the Sixtieth Annual Report of the National 
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was not received 
until after the end of the period covered by this report. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Paul H. Oeuser, 
Chief, Editorial and Publications Division. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



Report of the Executive Committee of the 
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution 

For the Year Ended June 30, 1958 
To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report 
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with 
a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Govermnent 
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

PARENT FUND 

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s 6d — 
$508,318.46. Eef unds of money expended in prosecution of the claim, 
freight, insurance, and other incidental expenses, together with pay- 
ment into the fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld 
during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to the 
amount of $550,000. 

The gift of James Smithson was "lent to the United States Treas- 
ury, at 6 per centum per annum interest" (20 USC 54), and by the 
Act of March 12, 1894 (20 USC 55), the Secretary of the Treasury 
was "authorized to receive into the Treasury, on the same terms as 
the original bequest of James Smithson, such sums as the Regents 
may, from time to time see fit to deposit, not exceeding, with the 
original bequest the sum of $1,000,000." 

The maximum of $1,000,000 which the Smithsonian Institution 
was authorized to deposit in the Treasury of the United States was 
reached on January 11, 1917, by the deposit of $2,000. 

Under the above authority the amounts shown below are deposited 
in the United States Treasury and draw 6 percent interest : 

Unrestricted 

funds Income 

James Smithson $727, 640 $43, 658. 40 

Avery 14, 000 840. 00 

Habel 500 30.00 

Hamilton 2, 500 150. 00 

Hodgkins (general) 116,000 6,960.00 

Rhees 590 35.40 

Sanford 1, 100 66.00 

Total 862, 330 51, 739. 80 

223 



224 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 



Restricted 
funds Income 

Hodgkins (specific) $100,000 $6,000.00 

Poore 26, 670 1, 600. 20 

Reid 11, 000 660. 00 

Total 137, 670 8, 260. 20 

Grand total 1, 000, 000 60, 000. 00 

In addition to the $1,000,000 deposited in the Treasury of the 
United States there has been accumulated from income and bequests 
the sum of $3,556,079.86 which has been invested and is carried on 
the books of the Institution as the Consolidated Fund, a policy ap- 
proved by the Regents at their meeting on December 14, 1916. 



CONSOLIDATED FUND 

(Income for the unrestricted use of the Institution) 



Fund 



Investment 
1958 



Income 1958 



Abbott, W. L., special 

•Avery, Robert S. and Lydia 

Gifts, royalties, gain on sale of securities 
Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline... 

•Hamilton, James 

Henry, Caroline 

Henry, Joseph and Harriet A 

•Hodgliins, Thomas O. (general) 

Morrow, Dwight W 

Olmsted, Helen A 

Porter, Henry Klrke 

•Khees, William Jones 

•Sanford, George H 

•Smithson, James 

Witherspoon, Thomas A 

Total 



$19, 928. 57 

52, 835. 57 

369,33171 

6, 379. 61 

539. 96 

1,617.74 

65,571.48 

40, 520. 10 

103, 437. 53 

1,071.70 

383, 089. 72 

632.85 

1, 190. 73 

1, 633. 01 

172, 621. 90 

1,219,405.18 



$1,030.98 

2, 733. 44 

19, 107. 35 

278. 32 

27.93 

83.69 

1, 724. 83 

2, 096. 26 

5,351.29 

55.45 

19, 818. 91 

32.75 

61. 59 

84.50 

8, 930. 49 



61, 417. 78 



'In addition to funds deposited in the United States Treasury. 

CONSOLIDATED FUND 

(Income restricted to specific use) 



Fund 



Investment 
1958 



Income 1958 



Abbott, William L., for investigations In biology 

Arthur, James, for investigations and study of the sun and annual lecture 
on same 

Bacon, Virginia Purdy, for traveling scholarship to investigate fauna of 

countries other than the United States 

Baird, Lucy H., for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird 

Barney, Alice Pike, for collection of paintings and pastels and for encourage- 
ment of American artistic endeavor - 



$139, 695. 42 
53, 496. 50 



67,016.55 
32, 206. 06 



38, 365. 53 



$7, 208. 60 

2, 767. 63 

3, 467. 04 
1, 666. 18 

1, 984. 85 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 
CONSOLIDATED FUND— Continued 



225 



Fund 



Investment 
1958 



Income 1958 



Barstow, Frederick D., for purchase of animals for Zoological Park. , 

Canfield Collection, for Increase and care of the Canfield collection of minerals 

Casey, Thomas L., for maintenance of the Casey collection and promotion of 
researches relating to Coleoptera 

Chamberlain, Francis Lea, for Increase and promotion of Isaac Lea collec- 
tion of gems and mollusks 

Dykes, Charles, for support In financial research 

Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort, for preservation and exhibtion of the photo- 
graphic collection of Kudolph Eickemeyer, Jr 

Hanson, Martin Qustav and Caroline Eunice, for some scientific work of 
the Institution, preferably in chemistry or medicine 

Hlgbee, Harry, Memorial Fund, for general use of the Institution after the 
period of ten years from date of gift (1957) 

Hlllyer, Virgil, for Increase and care of Virgil Hlllyer collection of lighting 
objects - - 

Hitchcock, Albert S., for care of the Hitchcock Agrostological Library 

HrdliCka, Ale§ and Marie, to further researches in physical anthropology and 
publication in connection therewith 

Hughes, Bruce, to found Hughes alcove 

Loeb, Morris, for furtherance of knowledge in the exact sciences 

Long, Annette and Edith C, for upkeep and preservation of Long collection 
of embroideries, laces, and textiles 

Maxwell, Mary E., for care and exhibition of Maxwell collection 

Myer, Catherine Walden, for purchase of first-class works of art for use and 
benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts. 

Nelson, Edward W., lor support of biological studies 

Noyes, Frank B., for use in connection with the collection of dolls placed in 
the U.S. National Museum through the interest of Mr. and Mrs. Noyes... 

Pell, Cornelia Livingston, for maintenance of Alfred Duane Pell collection... 

*Poore, Lucy T. and George W., for general use of the Institution when 
principal amounts to $250,000 

Rathbun, Richard, for use of division of U.S. National Museum containing 
Crustacea - - 

*Reid, Addison T., for founding chair in biology, in memory of Asher Tunis.. 

Roebling Collection, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling collec- 
tion of minerals 

Roebling Solar Research— 

Rollins. Miriam and William, for investigations in physics and chemistry... 

Smithsonian employees' retirement 

Springer, Frank, for care and increase of the Springer collection and library.. 

Strong, Julia D.. for benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts 

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, for development of geological and 
paleontological studies and publishing results of same 

Walcott, Mary Vaux, for publications in botany 

Younger, Helen Walcott, held in trust.. 

Zerbee, Frances Brlnckle, for endowment of aquaria 

Total. 



$1,337.32 
61, 100. .58 



16, 7C6. 55 



$69. 19 
2, G4fi. 75 



867. 38 



37, 668. 47 


1,948.78 


57, 695. 87 


2,979.38 


H, 639. 82 


752.23 


11,891.41 


615. 18 


673. 94 


34.89 


8, 791. 18 


454. 81 


2, 110. 71 


109. 22 


54, 980. 81 


2, 704. 49 


25, 604. 12 


1,324.60 


116, 578. 66 


6,031.11 


726. 31 


37.67 


26, 237. 15 


1, 357. 35 


27,018.91 


1,397.81 


29, 747. 18 


1, 475. 56 


1,285.12 


66.46 


9,915.16 


512. 97 


215, 574. 10 


10,480.28 


14, 227. 05 


736. 02 


23, 965. 96 


1,232.06 


161, 436. 71 


8,351.86 


40, 635. 92 


2, 102. 31 


171, 753. 27 


7, 969. 83 


33,113.34 


1, 743. 13 


23, 987. 69 


1, 240. 96 


13,374.30 


691. 92 


640.318.28 


33, 251. 23 


77, 429. 21 


4,005.76 


94, 180. 80 


4,792.15 


1, 268. 82 


65.66 


2, 336, 674. 68 


119, 143. 20 



•In addition to funds deposited in the U.S. Treasury. 



226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND 

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave 
to the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects 
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by 
Whistler, Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave 
funds for construction of a building to house the collection, and 
finally in his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stocks 
and securities to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endow- 
ment fund for the operation of the Gallery. The fund now amounts 
to $8,118,055.02. 

SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS 

Invested endowment for general purposes $2,081,735.18 

Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer 

endowment 2, 474, 344. 68 

Total invested endowment other than Freer 4, 556, 079. 86 

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes 8, 118, 055. 02 

Total invested endowment for all purposes 12,674,134.88 

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS 

Deposited in the U.S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as 

authorized in the U.S. Revised Statutes, sec. 5591 $1,000,000.00 

Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market value 
at date acquired) : 

Bonds $1, 189, 444. 34 

Stocks 2, 328, 183. 81 

Real estate and mortgages .5,801.00 

Uninvested capital 32,650.71 

3,556,079.86 



Total investments other than Free endowment 4, .556, 079. 86 

Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market 
value at date acquired) : 

Bonds $4,597,684.90 

Stocks 3, 504, 511. 46 

Uninvested capital 15,858.66 

8, 118, 055. 02 

Total investments 12, 674, 134. 88 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 227 

ASSETS 
Cash: 

United States Treasury current 

account $768, 885. 37 

In banks and on hand 311, 289. 87 

1, 080, 175. 24 
Less uninvested endowment funds- 48, 509. 37 

$1, 031, 665. 87 

Travel and other advances 4,981.00 

Cash Invested (U.S. Treasury notes) 1,330,197.74 

$2, 366, 844. 61 



Investments — at book value : 
Endowment funds : 
Freer Gallery of Art : 

Stocks and bonds $8, 102, 196. 36 

Uninvested cash 15, 858. 66 

8, 118, 055. 02 

Investments — at book value — other 

than Freer: 

Stocks and bonds (Consoli- 
dated Fund) 3, 422, 123. 26 

Uninvested cash 32,650.71 

Special deposit in U.S. 
Treasury at 6 percent in- 
terest 1, 000, 000. 00 

Other stocks and bonds 95, 504. 89 

Real estate and mortgages. 5, 801. 00 

4,556,079.86 



12, 674, 134. 88 

Total 15, 040, 979. 49 



UNEXPENDED FUNDS AND ENDOWMENT 

Unexpended funds : 

Income from Freer Gallery of Art endowment $605, 688. 43 

Income from other endowments: 

Restricted $391, 551. 38 

General 389, 166. 45 



780, 717. 83 

Gifts and contributions 980,438.35 



2, 366, 844. 61 



Endowment funds: 

Freer Gallery of Art $8, 118, 055. 02 

Other : 

Restricted 2, 474, 344. 68 

General 2, 081, 735. 18 



12, 674, 134. 88 



Total 15, 040, 979. 49 



228 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 



CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING FISCAL 

YEAR 1958* 





Restricted Funds 


Unre- 
stricted 
Funds 


Gifts and 
Grants 


Total 




General 


Freer 




Receipts: 
Income from investments: 
Frppr Fund 




$389, 152. 67 






$389, 162. 67 


f/nnsoljilatpd Frind 


$95, 431. 56 
8,260.20 
3,068.84 
5, 050. 15 


$61,936.05 
61,739.80 




157, 367. 61 


T.oan to U.S. TrPOSury 






60,000.00 








3, 068. 84 


Special Funds— stocks and bonds. - 




34, 235. 42 




39, 285. 57 








Publications 


013. 18 


8,928.54 


80, 427. 22 
35, 231. 72 

65,929.29 
6, 134. 87 
10,489.00 
(3, 793. 90) 
9, 197. 47 


$1,817.58 


92,080.52 




35, 231. 72 


Special gifts and fees: 




16,000.00 
86.68 




81, 929. 29 


Special service fees .. . 




69, 536. 57 


65, 758. 12 


Refund of advances 




10, 489. 00 


Employees withholdings (not) . 








(3, 793. 90) 


Other 


100.00 






9, 297. 47 










Reinvestment (required by provision 
of 2 donors) 


19, 346. 10 








19,346.10 


Gifts and grants - 






'1,427,935.38 


1,427,936.38 












Total Income 


132,170.03 


414, 167. 89 


351, 526. 94 


1,489,289.63 


2, 387, 154. 39 


Endowment Funds — 
Sales of securities: 
Freer Fund 


1,544,434.59 


T.pss amo'iits piirrhaspd 










1, 529, 467. 94 














Consnlidntpd Fiind 


14,966.65 
424,317.14 


Less amounts purchased 










627,177.03 














Other stocks and bonds 


(102,859.89) 
21, 170. 53 


Less amounts purchased 










18,643.61 
















2,526.92 


Total receipts 


2,301,788.07 








81,684.76 






Disbursements: 
Administrative salaries 


81,684.76 


Other salaries 


12,473.29 
17,916.27 


143, 229. 79 
175,937.61 




155, 703. 08 


Purchases for collections 






193, 853. 78 


Research and explorations and related 
administrative expense; 
Salaries 


33,997.33 
8, 436. 78 
11,968.47 
026.36 
49, 656. 28 

989. 65 


•670,847.22 


704, 844. 55 


Travel 


10,267.34 


11,739.68 


30, 443. 80 


Equipment and supply 




11,968.47 


Other 


1,965.06 
10, 810. 10 




» 1, 411, 465. 91 


1,414,347.33 


Publications 


21,309.67 

10,426.31 
2,061.18 


81,676.05 


Buildings, equipment, and grounds: 
Buildings and installations 




11,415.98 


Court and grounds maintenance... 






2, 061. 18 


Furniture and fiitures 




159.20 




159.20 


Technical laboratory 




1,097.62 
11, 232. 90 




1,097.62 


Contractual services: 
Custodian and legal fees 


7, 705. 17 


968. 75 




19,896.82 



See footnotes at end of table. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 



229 



CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING FISCAL 

1958 ^—Continued 





Restricted Funds 


Unre- 
stricted 
Funds 


Gifts and 
Grants 


Total 




General 


Freer 




Disbursements— Continued 
Other supplies and expenses: 
Meetings, special exhibits 




$5,215.08 
1,390.06 
6,121.51 
3, 216. 39 


$6,026.23 




$11,241.31 








1, 390. 06 


Photographs and reproductions. . 




915. 76 
965. 81 
266. 62 
446. 40 
1,849.80 




6, 037. 27 






4, 182. 20 








266.62 










446. 40 








1, 849. 80 












Total disbursements... . -. 


61, 137. 23 


391,977.70 


199, 148. 20 


$2,082,303.13 


2, 734, 566. 26 






Excess of disbursements over receipts 
(see note). . 


1 


^ ._ -. ._ 


(432, 778. 19) 


Cash balance June 30, 1957 -- -- 


1, 904, 072. 19 








Investment of cuirent funds in United 
States Government bonds: 
Purchases 


1,471,294.00 
831, 138. 74 




440, 019. 98 










(391, 118. 76) 


Cash hnlance -Tiinp .30, Ifl.'iS - 


1,080,175.24 







' This statement does not include Government appropriations under administrative charge of the 
Institution. 

« Includes receipts for lOY program. 

• Includes disbursements for IQY program. 

Note: This figure reflects expenditures of grants for specific purposes received in 1957 for required expendi- 
ture in 1958, largely under the IQY program. 

The practice of maintaining savings accounts in several of the 
"Washington banks and trust companies has been continued during 
the past year, and interest on these deposits amounted to $8,926.14. 

Deposits are made in banks for convenience in collection of checks, 
and later such funds are withdrawn and deposited in the United 
States Treasury. Disbursement of funds is made by check signed by 
the Secretary of the Institution and drawn on the U.S. Treasury. 

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts and grants from the 
following : 

Albion College, gift to defray expenses of Dr. Leonard P. Schultz in connection 

with travel to Albion College. 
American Institute of Biological Sciences, grant to defray expenses of Dr. 

Leonard P. Shultz in connection with attendance at a symposium dealing 

with basic research approaches to the development of shark repellents in 

New Orleans. 



230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

American Institute of Biological Sciences, grant to defray expenses of Dr. 
Herbert Friedmann in connection with attendance at the 15th Zoological 
Congress in London. 

American Pharmaceutical Association, grant to support historical research and 
attendance at international scientific meetings by George GrifCenhagen. 

American Philosophical Society, grant for archeological investigations on the 
coast of Ecuador. 

American Philosophical Society, grant to defray expenses of Dr. T. Dale Stewart 
in connection with travel to the Iraq Museum in Baghdad. 

Atomic Energy Commission, additional grant for the study of specific biological 
indicators of ionizing radiation and the mechanism of the action of such 
radiation. 

Atomic Energy Commission, additional grant for the purpose of conducting a 
biochemical investigation of photomorphogenesis in green plants. 

Bredin, Mrs. J. Bruce, additional gift for the Smithsonian-Bredin Expeditions 
Fund. 

Buchanan, Wiley T., gift to establish the Buchanan Fund for Purchase of His- 
torical Objects. 

Carter Oil Company, additional grant for a research project on echinoid spines. 

Clark, Mrs. Leila F., gift to the Library. 

Colp, Dr. Ralph, gift to the Northern Mexico Archeological Fund. 

Cornell University, gift to defray expenses of Dr. G. A. Cooper in connection 
with delivering the Gurley Lecture. 

Creole Foundation, grant for the purpose of testing carbon samples for radio- 
active carbon in order to obtain dates from archeological horizons in the 
Orinoco Basin of Venezuela. 

Department of the Air Force, grant for research directed toward the study of 
the rate of accretion of interplanetary matter by the earth. 

Department of the Air Force, grant for research entitled "Study of Atmos- 
pheric Entry and Impact of High Velocity Meteorites." 

Guggenheim, John Simon, Memorial Foundation, grant to cover the costs of 
making and printing two or more colored plates for inclusion in a manuscript en- 
titled "The Parasitic Weaverbirds" by Herbert Friedmann. 

Harvard University, gift for the Peabody Museum, Harvard University-Smith- 
sonian Institution Kalahari Expedition. 

Henry, Miss Caroline, bequest to establish the "Joseph Henry and Harriet A. 
Henry Fund." 

Kevorkian, H., gift to Freer Gallery of Art. 

Link, E. A., additional gift for historical research (marine archeology) . 

Link Foundation, grant for special publications dealing with aviation and Smith- 
sonian Institution collections. 

May, Mrs. M. Merriweather Post, gift to purchase wooden Indian Princess. 

National Geographic Society, grant to cover the preparation of technical dravdngs 
of fishes for illustration in the report on the collection of fishes made during the 
Arnhem Land Expedition. 

National Geographic Society, additional grant to complete the excavations and 
related work at the archeological site in Jackson County, Alabama. 

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of a research entitled "Studies 
of Type Specimens of Ferns." 

National Science Foundation, additional grant for research on recent Foraminif- 
era from Ifaluk Atoll. 

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled "Mono- 
graphic Studies of Tingidae and Presmidae (Hemiptera) ." 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 231 

National Science Foundation, additional grants for an optical tracking and scien- 
tific analysis program for the U.S. Earth Satellite Program. 

National Science Foundation, additional grants for research on "Taxonomy of 
the Bamboos." 

National Science Foundation, additional grants for research entitled "Taxonomic 
Study of the Phanerogams of Colombia." 

National Science Foundation, grant for the sxipport of research entitled "Meta- 
bolic Aspects of the Digestion of Wax." 

National Science Foundation, additional grant for the support of research entitled 
"Monograph of Fresh-water Calanoid Copepods." 

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled "Recon- 
struction of Migration Routes." 

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled "Lichens 
of West Virginia." 

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled "Studies 
of Cassiduloida ( Echinoidea ) ." 

National Science Foundation, grant to assist in defraying travel expenses of Dr. 
Martin H. Moynihan from Panama to Helsinki, Finland, and return, for the 
purpose of attending the 12th International Ornithological Congress. 

National Science Foundation, additional grant for the support of research en- 
titled "Photoregulation of Growth in Plants." 

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled "Be- 
havior of Neotropical Lepidoptera." 

National Science Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled "Com- 
parative Analysis of Behavior in Tropical Birds." 

Naval Research, OflSce of, additional grant to perform psychological research 
studies. 

Naval Research, OflBce of, additional grant to perform aeronautical research 
studies. 

Naval Research, Office of, additional grant to assist work in progress on the 
preparation of a synoptic catalog of the mosquitoes of the world. 

Naval Research, Office of, grant to provide expert consultants to advise the Navy 
Research Advisory Committee. 

Nelson, R. Leila nd, additional gift for biological studies. 

Norris, Mrs. Ernest Eden, gift to the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. 

United States Commissioner General, grant for preparation of an exhibition of 
American Folk and Primitive Art for participation in the Brussels Universal 
and International Exhibition of 1958. 

University of Michigan, gift to Freer Gallery of Art. 

University of Pennsylvania, gift to defray expenses of Dr. Henry B. Collins in 
connection with travel to Denmark. 

West Texas Geological Society, gift to defray exi)enses of Dr. G. A. Cooper in 
connection with travel to West Texas. 

For support of the Bio-Sciences Information Exchange : 
Atomic Energy Commission. 
Department of the Air Force. 
Department of the Army. 
Department of the Navy. 
National Science Foundation. 
Public Health Service. 
Veterans Administration. 



492520—59 



232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Included in the above list of gifts and contributions are reimburs- 
able contracts. 

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the Insti- 
tution. 

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Gov- 
ernment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian 
Institution for the fiscal year 1958 : 

Salaries and expenses $6,102,319.00 

National Zoological Park 840, 650. 00 

National Zoological Park (1958/59) 16, 000. 00 

Additions to the Natural History Building 800, 000. 00 

The appropriation made to the National Gallery of Art (which is 
a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution) was $1,676,580.00. 

In addition, funds were transferred from other Government agen- 
cies for expenditure under the direction of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion as follows : 

Working funds, transferred from the National Park Service, In- 
tei'ior Department, for archeoiogical investigations in river basins 
throughout the United States $175,624.00 

The Institution also administei's a trust fund for partial support of 
the Canal Zone Biological Area, located on Barro Colorado Island 
ill the Canal Zone. 

AUDIT 

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian Private Funds follows : 

Washington, D.C, August 25, 1958. 
The Board of Regents, 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 

We have examined the statement of private funds of Smithsonian Institu- 
tion as of June 30, 1958 and the related statement of private funds cash re- 
ceipts and disbursements (but excluding the National Gallery of Art and other 
departments, bureaus or operations administered by the Institution under Fed- 
eral appropriations) for the year then ended. Our examination was made in 
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly in- 
cluded such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures 
as we considered necessary in the circumstances. 

Land, buildings, furniture, equipment, works of art, living and other speci- 
mens and certain sundry property are not included in the accounts of the 
Institution. 

In our opinion, the accompanying statements present fairly the financial posi- 
tion of Smithsonian Institution at June 30, 1958 arising from cash transactions 
and revenues collected and expenses disbursed by it (and changes in proprietary 
interest and fund balances where reflected in cash basis statements) during the 
year then ended, on a basic consistent with that of the preceding year. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 233 

"We have reported as above ou the appended financial statements (Exhibits A 
and B). The accompanying scliedules, though not considered necessary for a 
fair presentation of the financial position and i-esults of operation, are pre- 
sented mainly for supplementary analysis purposes. While our examination 
was made primarily for the purpose of formulating our opinion on the current 
year's basic financial statements, the additional data have been subjected to the 
same audit procedures and, in our opinion, are stated fairly in all material 
respects when considered in conjunction with the financial statements taken 

as a whole. 

Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Robert V. Fleming 

Clarence Cannon 

Caryl P. Haskins 

Executive Committee. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 
to the 

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1958 



235 



ADVERTISEMENT 

The object of the General Appendix to the Annual Report of the 
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis- 
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by staff 
members and collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a 
general character or on special topics that are of interest or value to 
the numerous correspondents of the Ijistitution. 

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual 
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more 
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological 
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations 
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this 
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers 
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress. 

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum- 
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued bj^ 
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of 
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the 
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology, 
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and 
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether 
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888. 

In the report of 1889, a return was made to the earlier method of 
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original) 
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus- 
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1958. 

Reprints of the various papers in the General Appendix may be 
obtained, as long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Edi- 
torial and Publications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washing- 
ton 25, D.C. 
236 



The Sun's Energy^ 



By Farrington Daniels 

Department of Chemistry 
University of Wisconsin 



Life without the sun is unthinkable. Modern civilization with 
its ever-increasing demands for energy is completely dependent on 
the solar energy of the jDast, in the form of fossil fuels, as well as on 
the solar energy of the present. Many ancient peoples worshiped 
the sun. \A^iy have we gathered together here this week from the 
four corners of the earth in the name of the sun ? Not to worship the 
sun, but to tr}'', through science and technology, to obtain still more 
useful energy from it. We rebel against the old adage that "there is 
nothing new under the sun." 

AWAKENED INTEREST IN SOLAR ENERGY 

But why this new and almost explosive interest in utilizing solar 
energy? The sun has always been with us. I am delighted to see 
this new appreciation of solar energy — but I am worried, also. For 7 
years I have been actively urging scientists and engineers throughout 
the world to turn more of their research activities toward greater, 
direct utilization of this enormous, neglected source of energy — and 
now the idea has caught on like a delayed-action fuse. Too many 
people are beginning to expect too much too soon. There is no sudden 
era of solar prosperity just around the corner. There is much to be 
done yet by scientists, inventors and engineers, and philanthropists, 
before it is time for investors to become excited. The producers of 
conventional power through coal, petroleum, water power, and elec- 
tricity have nothing to worry about. None of our present engines 
and generators will be rendered obsolete by solar energy. Atomic 
energy and solar energy, each in its own way, will merely supplement 
the new additions to our power-producing machinery. Atomic energy 
will come in large, multimillion-dollar central power stations near 

1 Published by permission of the Stanford Research Institute from Proceedings of the 
World Symposium on Applied Solar Energy, 1955. 

237 



238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN ENSTITUnON, 1958 

cities and towns. In fact, it is already here. The critical mass of 
uranium, the elaborate controls and shielding and the disposal of 
radioactive waste, all work against small atomic units. Emphasis 
is being placed on 100,000-kilowatt atomic power units and larger, 
with some consideration of 5,000-kilowatt units for special purposes. 
Undoubtedly, the successes of atomic power have had an influence on 
solar energy. They have weaned us away from thinking only in 
terms of conventional combustion fuels. 

Unlike atomic energy, solar energy has no critical mass, no health 
hazards (except sunbui-n) , and no waste products to dispose of. Any- 
one can go out in his yard and run a toy steam engine with free sun- 
shine. There is no power limit. Laboratory research and even pilot- 
plant operation for solar energy is comparatively inexpensive. 

Solar-energy utilization will probably start with small units costing 
not millions of dollars, but only thousands of dollars. They will find 
their first practical uses in rural, nonindustrialized areas. I do not 
mean to imply that the deserts of Arizona may not bloom with huge 
solar powerplants — but they won't be important this year. 

Let me ask again why do we sense this upsurge of interest in the 
utilization of solar energy now, and why has the direct use of the sun's 
energy been neglected so long? There are many reasons. Life has 
been too easy with concentrated energy in the form of coal, petroleum, 
natural gas, and waterpower. "Necessity is the mother of invention" 
and the scientists and engineers most capable of developing devices 
for making direct use of the sun have lived in industrialized countries 
where there has been no necessity for developing solar energy. These 
countries would not be industrialized unless they had plenty of fuel. 
Dollarwise, competition with cheap fossil fuels has been unattractive, 
and "social-conscious-wise" there has been no demand in the indus- 
trialized countries that could not be met with conventional sources of 
energy. 

But these conditions are changing and there are several factors which 
are contributing to our new interest in solar energy. We realize, as 
never before, that our fossil fuels — coal, oil, and gas — will not last 
forever. Several careful studies have been published in the last few 
years which point out that the depletion of our reserves will come 
sooner than we think. In the fuel-rich United States, the problem 
may be one for our grandchildren, but some countries already are feel- 
ing the pinch of a decrease in high-grade, easily minable coal. More- 
over, the population of the world is increasing rapidly and the demands 
for abundant energy are increasing still faster. Any estimates of the 
life of fuel reserves based on consumption at past rates are utterly 
unrealistic. 



THE SUN'S ENERGY — DANIELS 239 

An occasional catastrophe has shown the helplessness of industrial- 
ized cities when the electricity goes off. Every year it becomes more 
difficult for them to exist without abundant power. The people 
could not spread out to the farms and live at a subsistence level. The 
farms are mechanized, too. I have recently had a survey conducted 
by V. Stoikov who found that for every calorie obtained from food 
in the United States, we put a little more than a calorie from fossil 
fuel into producing the food. 

Another important factor in our rising interest in the sun is the 
realization of the great need for more mechanical power in the non- 
industrialized areas of the world. Transportation and communica- 
tion have improved so much that we are acutely aware, as never before, 
of the need to give technical help to our friends on the other side of 
the world and to the south of us. 

I was privileged to attend a solar-energy symposium in 1954 in 
New Delhi, as a guest of the Indian Government and UNESCO. The 
Indian Government took us on a study tour of the semiarid regions. 
We saw, among other things, four bullocks and two men working dili- 
gently and skillfully for long hours irrigating farmland. Every min- 
ute two bullocks pull up by rope 250 pounds of water from a depth of 
50 feet. One of the men collapses the water bag made from hide and 
the water flows over the land. The second operator drives the bullocks 
and a second team of bullocks pulls up the next 250 pounds of water. 
This work done by the four bullocks and two men is reckoned to be 
equivalent to one-third of a horsepower. And the four bullocks cost 
$600 and have a life of only about 6 years. Moreover, they have to eat 
and they must consume a considerable portion of the crops that they 
help to grow. The project seemed to be barely self-supporting — but 
the water has to be raised. If the bullocks' walkway were covered 
Mdth a solar heat collector which activated a crude engine working at 
only 5-percent efficiency, a 1-horsepower pump could be operated. 
Five- percent efficiency should not be impossible. The challenge to 
replace these bullocks with solar engines seems more important to 
me now than some of the theoretical researches in which I have 
been engaged. (Of course, the bullocks are used for plowing and 
transportation as well as for irrigation.) We also saw a camel walk- 
ing around a well and pulling up Avater by a rotating mechanism. 
We saw a man getting water with the help of a counterweight, and 
a woman walking back and forth on a balanced beam to pull up 
pails of water. Solar engines certainly cannot compete yet with coal, 
oil, and electricity where these are abundant, but I believe that it 
should be possible to compete right now with manpower and animal- 
power, in areas where fuels are available only at high prices. 

The economics of solar energy does not look very attractive as 
yet in fuel-rich, highly industrialized areas, but it should be attractive 



240 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

now in nonindustrialized areas. High efficiency of the conversion 
of expensive fuel into work and low labor requirements have been 
the technological goals in industrialized countries. But sunshine is 
almost free and so efficiency of conversion is less important. Low 
capital investment and small repair requirements are much more 
important than engine efficiency and low labor costs. 

The need for new sources of power was clearly brought out at the 
Geneva Conference on Atoms for Peace in 1955. It seemed clear 
that atomic power can be produced on a large scale, in the future, 
for only a few tenths of a cent per kilowatt hour more than coal- 
generated power. It seemed clear, too, that atomic power can be pro- 
vided in small units very soon at a price considerably higher than that 
of coal -generated electricity. The price is not interesting in the 
United States, but it was interesting to some of the nonindustrialized 
nations. It was pointed out that to build conventional powerplants 
in remote, nonindustrialized areas requires large capital investments 
such as the building of railroads and freight cars and engines, and 
the installation of coal-mining machinery. Atomic power requires 
much less of these capital costs and so a higher price can be paid for 
atomic power. The same considerations apply to solar energy. Be- 
cause the costs of fuel and transportation of fuel are negligible and 
because heavy capital investments for combustion fuel accessories 
are eliminated, it is possible to pay more for sun-generated electricity 
than the industrialized countries are accustomed to pay for coal- and 
oil-generated electricity. 

The difference in labor costs between industrialized and nonindus- 
trialized areas should be considered also in the development of solar 
energy. Adjusting mirrors to face the sun at frequent intervals and 
dusting them off could perhaps be done for less than a dollar a day 
by a bullock driver, turned solar operator. Operators in industrial- 
ized countries might cost more than ten times as much. Hand opera- 
tion then may be cheaper and simpler than automatic operation in 
nonindustrialized countries, and it can permit a large reduction in the 
cost of the equipment. In places where electricity is not available, 
housewives would probably be glad to turn a wheel by hand at fre- 
quent intervals in order to preserve the family's food in a simple 
solar-operated refrigerator. 

Still another factor in our awakened interest in solar energy is the 
development of new materials. Large areas of solar collectors are 
required for the utilization of solar energy, and large areas of any 
material are expensive. Machinery, metals, glass, and concrete cost 
thousands of dollars per acre. We live in an age of plastics; and 
thin plastics are now available which cost only hundreds of dollars 
per acre. Here is a new frontier where we may have a chance of 
cutting costs and making solar devices more economical. 



THE SUN'S ENERGY — DANIELS 241 

There is much more to sohir-energy utilization than the develop- 
ment of solar engines. House heating, house cooling, refrigeration, 
cooking, distillation of salt water are all parts of the picture which is 
being suggested now and elaborated throughout this volmne. Even in 
the development of solar poAver for operating machines the long- 
range hope lies not so much in heat engines as in photochemistry and 
photoelectricity. But first let us see how much solar energy we need 
and how much we have. 

ABUNDANCE OF SOLAR ENERGY 

In considering any new development, it is well to consider first 
whether it is theoretically possible, next whether it is technically 
feasible, and finally whether it is economically sound and socially 
useful. The symposium was organized to discuss these questions. 
Answering the first question, the total energy of the sun falling on 
the earth is far more than is needed to do the world's work and it is an 
ever-continuing source of energy. To carry on the energy-rich civi- 
lization of the United States, this country used, in 1952, 164,000 kilo- 
calories of fuel energy or 190 kilowatt-hours of heat per person per 
day. The per capita consumption of fuel by all the people of the 
world was 24,000 kilocalories per day. The total energy from the 
sun striking the land area of the United States is of the order of 
270 million kilocalories, or 313,000 kilowatt-hours, per person per 
day. The theoretically available supply far exceeds the need, but 
at present there is no direct utilization of it because it is in the form 
of low- temperature heat which is difficult to convert into work, and 
difficult to store and transport. 

These figures are based on an arbitrary assumption that the solar 
radiation amounts to about one small calorie per minute per square 
centimeter. It is more than this in Arizona and much less than this 
in some other parts of the country, particularly in the wintertime. 
This unit is too small to visualize. Earlier, I suggested a new unit of 
solar radiation — the "roof," which is a "million calories per minute." 
It is the solar radiation received by 100 square meters of flat surface 
at the rate of 1,000 kilocalories per minute, or 60,000 kilocalories per 
hour or 500,000 kilocalories, or 580 kilowatt-hours of heat per 500- 
minute day. This 100-square-meter area is 1,075 square feet, about 
the flat area of the roof of a square house which is 10 meters or 33 feet 
on a side. A "roof-day" of 500,000 kilocalories is approximately 
equivalent to two million B.t.u., which is the amount of heat evolved 
by burning 150 pomids (about a man's w^eight) of coal or 15 gallons 
(almost an automobile tankful) of gasoline. If all the solar radiation 
were used with 100 percent efficiency, a "roof-day" of radiation would 
evaporate about 860 liters or 230 gallons of water. 



242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

If the solar energy could be converted into electricity through a 
heat engine and dynamo, or through a photovoltaic cell with an 
efficiency of 10 percent, one "roof" of radiation would generate about 
7 kilowatts while the sun is shining at the rate of a million calories 
per minute. If this electrical work is produced throughout 8 hours 
of sunshine, but averaged over the whole 24-hour day, the roof would 
produce at the rate of 2.3 kilowatts. A 5-percent efficiency would lead 
to 3.5 kilowatts during sunshine and 1.2 kilowatts for the day's aver- 
age. The limits of 5 and 10 percent for conversion of heat into useful 
electricity give an optimistic but not an impossible range. 

SOCIAL IMPLICATIONS 

Solar-energy utilization holds out special hope for improving the 
standard of living in areas which have not yet become industrialized. 
In marginal agricultural areas human labor can be conserved and 
work animals with their high food consumption reduced — if some ex- 
pert is able to come up with a sufficiently practical and inexpensive 
solar engine. Pumping of water for agriculture, for household use, 
and for sanitation is the most obvious use of solar energy. There is no 
way to make the sun shine at night and the intermittency of solar 
energy is a powerful deterrent to its use. Water pumping is not 
handicapped by this intermittency. Electric lights for homes and 
villages might come next in importance, but for this purpose some sys- 
tem of power storage must be provided, possibly for only a few hours. 
Village industries, weaving, wood turning, furniture making, and 
machine work might be encouraged with solar engines of 1 to 100 
horsepower. Solar refrigeration could conserve food and make 
possible the use of additional protein materials with a resulting 
improvement in nutrition. 

Solar heatmg and cooking are definite possibilities if the units are 
cheap enough. 

I have a letter from Mexico telling me that the women of the 
village spend much of their time walking to the hills 6 miles away to 
collect firewood for their cooking and heating. The letter goes on to 
say, "We have plenty of sunshine all around. Can't you do something 
to help us ?" Maybe we can. Let's try ! The challenge is not only to 
save time and labor for the housewife, but to conserve the soil against 
erosion caused by removing the grass and shrubs for firewood. In 
some areas the cow and camel dung now used for cooking fuel 
might be saved for use as fertilizer. 

Possibly the solar distillation of salt water and the solar heating 
and cooling of houses might open up new land areas to settlement and 
thus tend to relieve some of the world's population pressures. 

In some undeveloped and uninhabited areas, a premium price could 
undoubtedly be paid for electricity, for pumping of water, and for 



THE SUN'S ENERGY — DANIELS 243 

distilled fresh water. In tackling tlie economic problems of solar 
energy, let us not be tied to the economic patterns and practices of 
the highly industrialized countries. There may be places where 
people would be glad to pay not 5 mils per kilowatt-hour for elec- 
tricity, but 5 cents, because the whole economy and standard of 
living would be raised. 

We must not become too enthusiastic, however. There are many 
places in the world with long, dark Arctic winters, or with cloud- 
shrouded climates where the sun cannot help. It is well to remember, 
though, that in a given area the heritage of sunlight is the same on all 
the land. The same amount of solar energy falls on an acre of land, 
whether it is city real estate costing thousands of dollars, rich farm 
land costing hundreds of dollars, grazing lands costing tens of dollars, 
or wasteland costing almost nothing. 

In looking around for large areas of unused land to be occupied with 
solar collectors, we might consider the rights-of-way at the sides of our 
railroads and highways — perhaps a "roof" equivalent for every 10 or 
20 feet. 

Solar energy is primarily for the countryside and not for the cities. 
When people are piled deep in multiple family apartments and there 
is no vacant land, demands for power per square meter of sunlight 
cannot possibly be met. No wonder a report on solar energy by a 
committee of scientists in Ijondon was rather pessimistic. 

Arizona is indeed a favored place with optimum sunshine through- 
out the year and plenty of great open spaces. It should be an excellent 
proving ground for industrial solar energy. The Bell solar battery 
has shown that we may expect rapid progress through fundamental 
research, perhaps in apparently unrelated fields. Let's all join in the 
fun of pushing back the frontiers of solar-energy research and 
engineering. 

DEVICES AND DIFFICULTIES 

I would like to give you an introduction to some of the opportunities 
that may lie ahead, and some of the devices and difficulties with which 
we are all concerned. I hope that many new ideas for the utilization 
of solar energy will be brought forth wliich will lead to a chain reaction 
of additional ideas aU over the world. I trust, too, that there are 
many experts who will evaluate these approaches to solar-energy uti- 
lization technically and economically and criticize them relentlessly. 
There are plenty of fertile fields for solar exploration to be worked, 
and the few active workers should not ordinarily waste their efforts 
in unpromising areas. Early criticism may serve to direct our limited 
research resources into more useful channels. 

Let me divide the future development of solar energy into shoil 
range and long range. About half the solar energy is light and half 



244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

heat. The light half, of course, can be used as heat also. Thus all the 
energy is available as heat. We can start at once developing heat uses. 
The principles are well known. The difficulty is in economics. Some 
say just wait for new technological developments and new materials. 
The technological ceiling will certainly rise. Yes, but it rises only be- 
cause a few pioneers like to bump their heads against the ceiling. Let's 
start now on large-scale experimentation and pilot plants using the 
heat of the sun for heating, cooling, distillation, and for solar-heat 
engines. Let's accelerate our fundamental research in trying to use the 
light of the sun. We are a long way behind in competing with agri- 
culture, but agriculture in turn utilizes only a small fraction of the 
solar energy which it could theoretically utilize. The greatest long- 
range hope lies in photochemistry and photoelectricity. 

Intensive research and development should be directed toward uti- 
lizing solar heat to help the nonindustrialized countries now and 
toward utilizing the solar light at some later time. 

SOLAR ENGINES 

Solar engines require a higher temperature than is ordinarily needed 
for house heating, absorption refrigeration, or for distillation of salt 
water. This higher temperature can be achieved through concentra- 
tion of the light onto a small area with the help of parabolic or para- 
bolic-cylindrical mirrors ; or by heat traps with multiple glass plates 
which allow sunlight to pass through, but which minimize the loss of 
heat in the form of long infrared radiation from the heated receiver. 
The focusing type of engine has the advantage of reducing the area 
of the boiler and this, in turn, reduces the heat losses and the cost of 
equipment. It is, however, nearly useless except in direct sunshine. 
The flat plate collectors will continue some operation on cloudy days. 
The focusing type may well be more suitable for sunny climates and 
the flat plate collectors more suitable for regions in which the direct 
sunlight is frequently cut off by clouds. In either case, the important 
problem is to keep the capital cost low. Large areas of reflectors or 
glass plates are expensive. 

STORAGE OF POWER 

Intermittency is one of the handicaps of solar energy. There is no 
way by which the sun can be made to shine at night. There are 
many ways in which mechanical or electrical power can be stored. 
The question is the economic cost. An engine can pump water up to 
an elevated reservoir, and as the water falls back to ground level it 
can do work in a water turbine. The difficulty with this method is 
the high cost of a reservoir which has appreciable capacity. One 
kilowatt-hour of heat is equivalent to 4,100 cubic feet of water or 



THE SUN'S ENERGY — DANIELS 245 

116,000 liters falling through a height of 10 feet. If a hydroelectric 
plant or an abandoned mine or a large diving bell in a lake or ocean 
is available the cost may not be so great. At Austin, Tex., a steam 
powerplant pumps water back from a low reservoir to a high reservoir 
when electricity is not much in demand and then the full hydroelectric 
power is available for peak loads. 

Standard electric power grids are well suited to help overcome the 
intermittent nature of solar energy. When the sun is shining the coal 
supply or the dammed-up water supply can be conserved. The de- 
mand for air conditioning is creating new problems with the peak 
loads of electrical power systems. The sun is usually shining 
brightest when the air conditioning is needed most. 

Power can be stored also in the form of high-temperature heat. 
One kilowatt-hour of heat is equivalent to 860 kilocalories which 
is equivalent to a 10-degree C. drop in the temperature of 86 liters 
of water. Heat to run a steam engine for a while after sundown 
might be stored in a large insulated hot-water tank or in fused mate- 
rial such as urea with its melting point of 125 degrees C and its 
heat of fusion of 50 calories per gram. Huttig has proposed to 
store heat for operating an engine in an iron sphere heated electri- 
cally to a high temperature. The ratio of heat storage to radiating 
surface is comparatively low. It must be remembered that 1 kilo- 
watt-hour of heat gives only about 0.1 kilowatt-hour or less of 
work in a small heat engine. 

The electrolysis of water and storage of the hydrogen and oxy- 
gen in underground gas tanks with water seals offer possibilities. 
The gases may be combined to operate a high-temperature gas tur- 
bine. One kilowatt-hour of heat is equivalent to the heat of com- 
bustion of about 10 cubic feet of hydrogen. The stored hydrogen 
and oxygen may be used directly to operate a hydrogen-oxygen 
"fuel cell" with nickel electrodes in a fused salt bath at a high tem- 
perature. Good laboratory progress is being made in obtaining 
efficiencies up to 60 and 70 percent with fuel cells. 

HOUSE HEATING 

House heating is one of the theoretically simple uses of solar energy 
because the temperature does not have to be high. Flat plate col- 
lectors give satisfactory heat traps and focusing devices are not 
necessary. However, large surfaces are necessary and architectural 
difficulties arise. The storage of heat may be accomplished with 
pebble beds, hot-water storage tanks, or chemicals which undergo 
fusion or transition in crystal form. Competition of solar heating 
against cheap coal, oil, and gas is difficult, but inasmuch as about 
one-third of the fuel consumption in the United States goes for 



246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

space heating it is clear that there are important conservation as- 
pects to solar house heating. In northern climates the capital cost 
of large heat-storage capacities is so great that it seems wise to 
use small auxiliary plants operating on conventionel fuel in addition 
to the solar heating plant. 

In those areas where fuel is expensive and wood and shrubbery 
need to be consei'ved in order to minimize soil erosion, there is a 
special need for solar house heating. In areas of greatest need there 
is likely to be both a scarcity of fuel and an absence of electricity 
Wliat then is to be used in the solar heating plant for circulating 
air or water through the heat storage bins? Circulation by natural 
convection is usually not enough. Efforts should be made to de- 
velop an inexpensive, solar-operated device for circulating air or 
water. 

Wlien ample electricity is available the use of a heat pump offers 
attractive possibilities with a reservoir of heat produced by solar 
radiation. 

REFRIGERATION AND HOUSE COOLING 

Household refrigeration is one of the most urgent fields for the 
utilization of solar energy. Nutritional deficiencies among people 
living in tropical areas could be reduced by providing cheap re- 
frigerators for preserving proteins and other foods. The potential 
market all over the world for refrigerators and house cooling is tre- 
mendous. 

In the United States with its abundant supply of electricity, re- 
frigeration developments have followed mechanical refrigeration 
with moving parts powered by electric motors. The absorption and 
desorption of ammonia in water and other similar types of refrig- 
eration are probably simpler and more efficient. Intensive research 
on small solar-operated cooling systems should include not only 
absorption and desorption of gases in solutions, but also adsorp- 
tion and desorption of gases on solid surfaces and dehydration sys- 
tems in which the dissolved water is driven out of a solution with 
solar heat and the dry high-boiling liquid is then ready to absorb 
more water vapor. 

DISTILLATION OF SEA WATER 

A million calories per minute or 500,000 kilocalories per day of 
solar energy striking an area of 100 square meters could theoreti- 
cally support enough heat to vaporize about a milion grams of water, 
which is a layer of water 1 centimeter or 0.4 inch deep. Practically, 
of course, the efficiency would be low and solar distillation would 
normally correspond to less than 0.2 inch of rain. Multiple stills 
are possible in which some of the heat of condensation of the water 



THE SUN'S ENERGY — DANIELS 247 

is used to vaporize fresh water, but the cost of such stills is veiy 
high. Premium prices can be paid in some areas for domestic and 
household water and for drinking water for animals. Here the solar 
distillation of salt water is particularly attractive. Egypt, Asia, 
Australia, and parts of the United States have significant regions for 
practical tests. 

Solar-distilled water cannot easily compete with irrigation water 
because the investment costs of the necessarily large areas of water- 
contaming vessels and glass or plastic are so high. New cheap, 
weather-resistant plastics are needed which are impervious to water 
vapor, but are wetted by liquid water and able to withstand years 
of bright sunlight. Also needed is a solar-operated circulating fan 
which will circulate air where electrical power is not available. 

PHOTOCHEMISTRY 

The long-range hope for the direct utilization of solar energy lies 
in photochemistry and photoelectricity. The research goal in photo- 
chemistry is to find a suitable reaction which can be produced by 
sunlight with the absorption of energy, and then allowed to reverse 
itself at will in the dark with the evolution of energy. Many endo- 
thermic photochemical reactions reverse themselves so rapidly that 
they merely convert light energy into heat and are not suitable for 
storing energy. There is a chance that some of the photoproducts 
will give up electrons to a wire and thus produce an electric current. 
Most photochemical reactions are spontaneous reactions in which the 
light merely accelerates the reaction rate, and the reaction does not 
reverse itself in the dark. Again, many of the promising endothermic 
reactions respond only to ultraviolet light, which does not exist in 
sunlight to an appreciable extent. The photochemical challenge is a 
difficult one. 

The fact that photosynthesis exists and carbon dioxide and water 
combine photochemically in the presence of chlorophyll in the growing 
plant gives encouragement to those who are trying to use the sun 
photochemically. The end products of photosynthesis are carbohy- 
drates and other organic materials which, on combustion, will give 
back the carbon dioxide and water and release the stored energy. The 
first chemical step in photosynthesis is the release of hydrogen atoms. 
In trying to copy and improve on nature, it may be easier to store 
the solar energy in hydrogen rather than in carbohydrates and other 
products produced by further reduction of the carbon dioxide. 
Although hydrogen cannot be used for food, it can readily be used 
for fuel. 

Photosynthesis is a remarkable process which we are just beginning 
to miderstand. In the laboratory under special conditions it can be 

492520—59 17 



248 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

made efficient. Thirty percent of the light energy absorbed (cor- 
responding to 8 photons per molecule) can be stored and released at a 
later time by combustion. In agriculture only a small fraction of 
one percent of the annual solar energy is stored. There are many 
reasons for this low efficiency. The half of the solar radiation which 
is in the infrared is ineffective; the growing season lasts for only a 
third of a year and the ground is entirely covered with green leaves 
for only a part of this time; the carbon dioxide of the air is too low 
in concentration; and, most important of all, the sunlight is much too 
bright for maximum efficiency. As a result of all these handicaps 
agriculture in the temperate zones of the world ordinarily grows 
only about 2 tons of dry organic material per acre per year. 

The mass culture of algae can probably produce about ten times 
as much organic material, but a heavy capital investment is required 
for water tanks, carbon dioxide enrichment, fertilizers, cooling equip- 
ment, and harvesting machinery. Research to reduce these costs 
should be encouraged. One of the best approaches is the develop- 
ment of algae which will grow in hot water and thus eliminate the 
need for artificial cooling. 

The Bell Telephone Co.'s solar battery is one of the most hopeful 
developments in photochemistry. It was the result of fundamental 
research in solid-state physics — a field supposedly far removed from 
that of solar energy. The single crystals of silicon which form the 
battery are too expensive now, but intensive research should be en- 
couraged in an attempt to find substitutes. Perhaps very cheap 
electroplated films and vaporized films of semiconducting material 
should be explored to see if tliey cannot be made pure enough and 
similar enough in properties to those of a single crystal. 

CONCLUSIONS 

I would like to make two suggestions. We work in a heretofore 
neglected field with no adequate means of publication. Let's start 
now an international "Journal of Solar Energy Research and En- 
gineering." Science develops exponentially when its scientists can 
build on the work of others. Rapid publication of results is the life 
blood of a vigorous science. No single scientific journal is novv^ in 
existence which is read alike by the many types of engineers and 
scientists which make up this group. Lack of a proper medium for 
publishing their research has been a deterrent to young scientists 
on the threshold of a professional career and who might go into the 
development of solar energy. 

You have heard of the Geophysical Year sponsored by the United 
Nations through ICSU which in turn appoints committees and solicits 
support from national governments. Perhaps we can have a Solar 



THE SUN'S ENERGY — DANIELS 249 

Decade, if we want it. Shall we ask ICSU for an international com- 
mittee on solar energy ? 

What can industry do to accelerate the utilization of solar energy ? 
Among the most obvious aids would be mass production of large para- 
bolic mirrors of aluminum pressed out with dies, or of plastics with 
vaporized metallic films. Small, low-pressure steam turbmes or 
steam engines, die-cast and produced in mass could help greatly to 
relieve human labor in some of the non industrialized areas. One- to 
ten- or fifty-horsepower engines of sufficiently low cost could find an 
immediate and large foreign market with some domestic demand, 
even if the engines are quite inefficient. The development of thin 
plastics is needed for collectors of solar energy and particularly for 
the distillation of salt water. Special characteristics are needed such 
as wetting by water and opaqueness in the far infrared, but the chief 
demands are for low cost and ability to withstand years of exposure 
to bright sunlight. 

Storage batteries at less than one-tenth the cost of automobile bat- 
teries are needed, but they do not need to be small and portable. 
While laboratory research goes on for new ideas and new methods, 
studies of mass production of new materials and new machines by 
industry may well lead to rapid advances in the utilization of the 
sun's energy. 

Solar-energy utilization is rapidly coming of age. Many people 
have become interested and steady progress will be made. But don't 
expect miracles. We must go back to our laboratories and roll up 
our sleeves with ideas newly stimulated and try to extract more value 
from our sunshine. It is there for us, if we can be smart enough to 
find it. 

But I am confident that the scientists and engineers can and will 
bring a new era of prosperity and peace to the whole world. The 
"Atoms for Peace" conference of the United Nations in 1955 opened 
up a great new hope for atomic power. Perhaps Arizona's "Sun 
for Man's Use" conference will be just as important. The first 
half of our century may go down in history as the period of gi^eat wars, 
and it is not impossible that the second half of the century may come 
to be known as the beginning of a peaceful, power-abundant era in 
man's evolution. We know now that through research there is a 
chance that we can have mechanical power and electricity all over 
the world; and a greater equalization of industrial productivity in 
all countries may tend to lessen war tensions. I believe that by a 
judicious combination of fossil fuels, atomic energy, and solar energy 
the whole world can have within this century all the mechanical 
power and material comforts that it wants. This development will 
not solve all the world's problems, because man does not live by kilo- 
watts alone ; but it will help. 



Sun, Sea, and Air' 



By Roger Revelle 

Director, Scripps Institution of Oceanography 

University of California 

La Jolla, Calif. 



The great saga of the Norse kings, the "Heimskringla," begins 
with the words "Earth's round face, whereon mankind dwells." The 
Vikings, like other primitive peoples, thought of Earth as their home 
and of themselves as its creatures. Today w'e know that Earth is the 
only planet of our solar system on which human life could have 
developed, for no other satellite of our sun has land masses sur- 
rounded by an ocean of liquid water or an atmosphere containing 
abundant free oxygen. 

Our bodies are made up almost entirely of four elements drawn 
from sea water and air: hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, and nitrogen. 
The narrow temperature range in which we can survive is maintained 
by the great heat capacity of the sea and the atmosphere. The waste 
products that otherwise would suffocate us are continuously dispersed 
by the easy motions of the atmosphere. We can exist as land animals 
only because the sun's deadly ultraviolet and X-rays are fended off 
by the protective shield of the air, and because the great natural en- 
gine of the sea and the atmosphere pumps water continuously from 
the sea surface and pours it gently down upon the land. 

Yet from our point of view, the earth is a careless mother. Large 
areas of her surface are too hot or too cold, too dry, or too wet to sup- 
port any large nmnber of human beings. Moreover, she is unreliable. 
Areas where there was once sufficient water for men to build civiliza- 
tions are now so dry that only a few desperate nomads can live in them. 
Elsewhere, a mile-thick blanket of ice has crept down and obliterated 
once green farms and forests. Millions of our species suffer when a 
slight change in the running of the sea- atmosphere engine causes 
drought or flood. Sometimes the engine runs with unpleasant violence. 
Then thunderstorms and hurricanes, tornadoes, and typhoons bring 
destruction and death to many of us. 



1 Reprinted by permission from Oceanus, vol. 5, Nos. 3 and 4, summer and autumn 1957. 

251 



252 AZOrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

Because of our dependence on events taking place in the air, almost 
everyone is an amateur meteorologist. Wherever two or more people 
are gathered together the first topic of conversation is the weather, and 
this was probably just as true in the time of Hammurabi or Amenhotep 
as it is today. Professional weathermen are a new development, how- 
ever, and it has only been within the last few decades that we have 
begun to gain an understanding of the great interrelated mechanisms 
of the air and the oceans. 

THE SUN 

We know that the sun pours a flood of particles and visible and in- 
visible light into the top of our atmosphere. The amount of visible 
light appears to be nearly constant, but the intensity of ultraviolet and 
X-rays and the number of particles vary by at least a hundredfold. 
The particles are chiefly electrons and protons. The average number 
of hydrogen nuclei entering our atmosphere is surprisingly large, per- 
haps a billion per square centimeter per second. During the geological 
lifetime of the earth, if all this hydrogen were combined with oxygen 
as water, it would correspond to a layer over the ocean about 20 meters 
thick. The energy carried to the earth by these particles from the sun 
during periods of sunspot activity may be as much as one-tenth of the 
total energy of sunlight. 

In addition to particles of ordinary hydrogen, there is new evidence 
that most of the tritium or radioactive hydrogen on earth also comes 
from the sun. It was formerly thought that all the tritium was pro- 
duced by cosmic rays bombarding nitrogen and oxygen molecules in 
the upper air, but recent calculations indicate that the amount present 
is nearly ten times too large to be produced in this way. 

The marked variations in ultraviolet radiation and in the number of 
particles coming from the sun cause large variations in the temperature 
and in the electrical and magnetic behavior of the upper atmosphere, 
because there is such a small amount of air at these high levels. Neither 
the majority of particles nor the ultraviolet rays penetrate very deeply, 
however, and it is not clear whether the variations in the amounts 
coming from the sun have appreciable effects near the earth's surface. 
Visible light is the dominant form of solar energy entering the lower 
atmosphere. Part of this light is reflected back to space, chiefly from 
the surface of clouds, snow, and ice. Most of it is absorbed in the 
atmosphere and the sea, from which it is ultimately re-radiated as 
infrared radiation. 

In this respect, the atmosphere behaves much like the glass in a 
greenhouse. It easily transmits visible light but is rather opaque 
to the infrared or heat radiation coming from the ground and the 
sea surface. Just as in a greenhouse, the air temperature must be 
considerably warmer than it would be in the absence of materials 



SUN, SEA, AND AIR — REVELLE 253 

that absorb infrared, in order to allow a balance between incoming 
and outgoing radiation. In the greenhouse the absorbing material 
is the glass roof. The corresponding materials in the atmosphere 
are three substances present in quite minor amounts: water vapor, 
carbon dioxide, and ozone. 

The temperatures in the upper air do not vary markedly with 
latitude and consequently the amount of back radiation is roughly 
the same all over the globe. But the amount of incoming sunlight 
is greater in the Tropics than in high latitudes. As a consequence, 
air and water warmed in the Tropics must move toward the Poles. 
Part of the energy received from the sun is thus used to carry the 
excess heat absorbed in low latitudes to high latitudes where it can 
be re-radiated. The amount of heat transported across the parallels 
of 80° is 10 to 20 percent of the total incoming radiation, but the 
mechanical work involved is less than 1 percent. 

HEAT ENGINES 

The situation can be thought of as if the sea and the atmosphere 
were interlinked heat engines of very low efficiency. Tliese engines 
do mechanical work against friction by carrying the working fluids, 
sea water and air, from the "firebox" of the Tropics to the radiation- 
cooled "condenser" of the polar regions. The circulation of the work- 
ing fluids is manifest in the winds of the air and the currents of the 
sea. In the atmosphere, it takes place through the coupling of rotary 
current patterns of all possible shapes and sizes. These include the 
trade-wind cells of oceanwide dimensions, the large-scale high- and 
low-pressure areas of midlatitudes, the wavelike jet stream, hurri- 
canes, tornadoes, tiny whirls and vortices. In the sea, major units 
of tlie circulation include the Gulf Stream and the Kuroshio, the fast- 
moving equatorial currents and the sluggish currents of the abyssal 
depths. These circulation patterns are partly unstable, and show 
themselves to those of us who live in midlatitudes as the radical 
changes in weather with which we are all familiar. In low latitudes 
over the ocean the instability produces the terrifying hurricanes of 
the western Pacific and of our own east coast. 

The behavior of the interlinked heat engines of the sea and the at- 
mosphere is profoundly influenced by four facts: First is their 
peculiar shape ; they are essentially two thin sheets wrapped around 
a sphere. Second, the sphere is rotating; the lower layers of air 
are dragged along by the rotation, and the movements of both the 
sea and the air are largely determined by the forces generated by 
the rotation (at a height above our heads of several hundred miles 
there is a transition to a zone where the sparse atoms of gas no longer 
move around the earth's axis). Third, the ocean is not a continuous 



254 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

sheet like the atmosphere, but is broken up by the relatively dry areas 
we call continents. Fourth, like an invisible pousse-cafc, the atmos- 
phere is stratified in thin layers that do not mix readily with each 
other, and each of these layers has to a considerable extent a separate 
behavior of its own. The same is true of the ocean but with the 
marked difference that while the temperatures of the different layers 
of the atmosphere are alternatively lower and higher as we go up- 
ward, the temperature of the ocean decreases continuously nearly 
to the freezing point at great depths. It increases slightly near the 
bottom because of the heat coming from the interior of the earth. 

The energy needed to drive the sea-air circulation is only a small 
portion of the incoming solar radiation, but it is still enormous on 
a human scale. The winds of the earth have a total kinetic energy 
estimated to equal 7 million atomic bombs, or more electric power 
than all the powerplants in the United States could produce in a 
hundred years. This energy must be replenished every 9 to 12 days 
because of the loss by friction between the winds and the earth's 
surface. 

Although there is a general agreement about the foregoing generali- 
zations, our mental model of the sea-atmosphere system is so inade- 
quate in many essentials that meteorologists are unable to predict 
anything very useful for more than a few days in advance about the 
circulation of the atmosphere. 

CLIMATIC CHANGES 

Even more fundamentally, we do not know the factors that deter- 
mine the average conditions. Consequently, we are quite unable to 
forecast changes in climate. Yet we know that such changes have 
occurred in the relatively recent past. Only about 10,000 years ago 
the earth emerged from a dark age of snow and ice; less than 5,000 
years ago, Greenland offered a fair and pleasant habitation for human 
beings. Within the last 50 years, the climate over eastern North 
America and northern Europe has again become slightly warm.er 
and the Arctic wastes are perhaps again becoming accessible to human 
beings, while elsewhere prolonged droughts are destroying the work 
and hopes of decades. For the farmer, the strategist, and the states- 
man, an accurate forecast of climatic change over the next 50 years 
would be of immeasurable value. But such a forecast is completely 
beyond our present ability. Ability to forecast depends on under- 
standing, and this comes in two interrelated ways: by constructing 
small models in our heads of the two great earth fluids, and by testing 
and refining these models through observations. This second method 
is one of the major objectives of the International Geophysical Year. 
In particular, we are concerned with measurements in areas that have 



SUN, SEA, AND AIR — REVELLE 255 

never been adequately explored and of phenomena that have never 
been adequately studied. 

To increase our understanding of climatic change we can ask first, 
what changes have occurred in the past and how did they happen? 
Second, because a change in climate is essentially a change of average 
air temperature, we need to examine the ways in which the heat con- 
tent of the air can vary. The heat content must be that required 
to give a balance between incoming and outgoing radiation ; hence it 
can vary if there is a change in the amount of incoming radiation 
from the sun, in the proportion of sunlight reflected versus that ab- 
sorbed, or in the amount of the infrared back radiation absorbed 
by carbon dioxide, water vapor, and ozone. A 1-percent change in 
the intensity of the incoming sunlight or in the amount of sunlight 
reflected back to space would give about a 1° centigrade change in 
the average air temperature. 

The total solar radiation seems to be remarkably constant. The 
most recent continuous observations are those made at the Lowell 
Observatory since 1953. During this period of sunspot minimum 
no solar variations in the blue region of the spectrum greater than 
0.3 percent have occurred. Ionospheric observations show, however, 
that ultraviolet components of the solar radiation are larger during 
periods of sunspot maxima, and the visual spectrum observations 
must therefore be continued throughout at least one sunspot cycle 
before we can say definitely that solar radiation is virtually constant 
over decades. 

In contrast to the apparent constancy of the incoming radiation, the 
reflectivity of the earth would appear to be easily changeable. Clouds, 
snow, and ice reflect most of the sunlight that falls on them, whereas 
the ocean surface, vegetation, and bare ground are highly absorbing 
for visible light. At present about 50 percent of the earth's surface is 
normally covered with clouds, while large areas are capped with snow 
and ice, particularly during winter. An average of 35 percent of the 
incoming sunlight is reflected back to space without being absorbed. 
The average air temperature would decrease by 1° centigrade if the 
reflection increased to 36 percent through increased cloudiness or a 
spreading of the snow- and ice-covered areas. 

Dust in the upper air also scatters and reflects sunlight before it can 
reach the ground and ocean surfaces. After the explosion of the vol- 
cano Krakatoa in 1883, the incoming radiation from the sun and sky 
decreased by 5 to 10 percent for three years. Changes in the water 
vapor, ozone, or carbon dioxide content of the air alter the amount 
and character of the infrared absorption. Calculations indicate that 
a 25-percent change in the carbon dioxide content of the air would 
change the average air temperature by 1° centigrade. 



256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

The factors affecting the average air temperature are interrelated ; 
there are in fact what electronic engineers call "feedback" relation- 
ships among them. These feedback linkages are both positive and 
negative. For example, an increase of air temperature from whatever 
cause would result in a melting of part of the snow and ice cover of 
the earth and a corresponding reduction in the reflection. Conse- 
quently, the amount of absorbed radiation would increase and the 
temperature would rise still further. This is a positive feedback. 
Similarly, an increase of average air temperature would increase the 
evaporation from the oceans ; hence the water- vapor content of the air 
and absorption of infrared radiation. The temperature would not 
increase without limit, however, because an increase in evaporation 
must eventually result in an increase of cloudiness as the water vapor 
condenses; hence an increase in the proportion of reflected sunlight. 
This is a negative feedback. Such complex feedback linkages tend to 
hunt or oscillate, with time constants determined by the speed of the 
difl'erent processes involved. 

Thus far we have been discussing comparatively small changes in 
average air temperature over the earth. Such changes may be of 
great significance — it is generally estimated by meteorologists that 
a 4-degree drop in average air temperature would be sufficient to bring 
on a new ice age. But with present meteorological observing facilities 
they would be almost impossible to measure. What is observed are 
local changes of much greater magnitude. These must be brought 
about chiefly by variations in atmospheric and perhaps oceanic cir- 
culation, specifically in the locations of north-south transport of heat 
and matter. 

For example, the January mean temperature at Spitsbergen in- 
creased by 24 degrees from 1913 to 1937, whereas during almost the 
same period there was a 3 to 5 degree drop in January mean tempera- 
ture in the Great Basin of the western United States. 

Because of the complex relationship between the amounts of inso- 
lation and infrared absorption on the one hand and the circulation 
patterns of north-south transport on the other, it is by no means cer- 
tain whether an increase of insolation or absorption would bring on 
a colder or a warmer climate. 

PAST CHANGES 

The circulation patterns are profoundly affected hj the distribution 
of continents and oceans, and therefore it is of great importance to 
make comparative studies of past climatic changes in the Northern 
and Southern Hemispheres, because of their markedly different pat- 
terns of sea and land. Since changes in the intensity of the north- 
south circulation should have different effects in high and low latitudes, 



SUN, SEA, AND AIR — REVELLE 257 

it is also necessary to attempt to determine tlie nature of simultaneous 
climatic changes in different latitude zones. 

The great ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland and the mountain 
glaciers throughout the world are remarkable indicators of climatic 
change. During periods of warming or reduced precipitation the gla- 
ciers retreat ; when the atmosphere is cooled or snowfall increases, they 
thicken and rapidly advance. Moreover, the layers of ice laid down 
in successive years constitute an unrivaled record of events on earth 
during past millennia. 

Many aspects of glaciers will be studied during the IGY. Among 
the most significant from the standpoint of the heat and water budget 
of the earth will be the thickness of the ice. This will be measured by 
the seismic techniques used in prospecting for oil. Bore holes and 
cores will also be taken to study the frozen record of the past. 

Ice caps now cover about 3 percent of the earth's surface. A melt- 
ing of 2 feet per year over these surfaces seems quite possible from 
present data. This would result in a rise of sea level of about an inch 
per year or roughly 10 feet in 100 years. Even such a rise as this 
would bring serious consequences to many thickly populated coastal 
areas. 

The sediments of the deep sea floor, like the ice caps, contain a de- 
tailed climatic record extending back over many thousands of years. 
For example, variations in the numbers of limy shells of the tiny ani- 
mals called Foraminifera reflect variations in the oceanic circulation 
near the surface. The ratios of oxygen isotopes in these shells tell us 
something about past ocean temperatures. At least part of the pres- 
ent temperature differences we can measure between different layers 
in deep sea sediments may be the result not of heat flow from the 
earth's interior but of warmer temperature of the deep ocean waters 
a few hundreds or thousands of years ago. Studies of these sediments 
and their significance for climatic change will be an important part of 
the series of oceanographic expeditions to be conducted during the 
International Geophj^sical Year. 

The meteorologist and the oceanographer can seldom use that peer- 
less tool of the laboratory scientist — controlled experunent. As sub- 
stitutes for experiment they must attempt to make comparative inves- 
tigations of the behavior of the earth fluids under different conditions. 
For this reason a major part of the IGY meterological program will be 
focused on comparisons between the Southern and the Northern 
Hemispheres. 

Because the earth is closer to the sun in January than in July, 
the Southern Hemisphere receives about 6 percent more radiation in 
summer than does the Northern. The geometry of the two hemi- 
spheres is also quite different. In the north, the Polar Sea with its 
thin, cracked skin of ice is surrounded by continents ; in the south a 



258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

continent nearly twice the size of the United States, having an ice- 
covered surface 2 miles above sea level, lies at the Pole and is sur- 
rounded by the great southern ocean. This high central plateau, 
sheathed in darkness for 6 months each year, is a focal point for 
inward-circling storms and outward surges of cold air. The weather 
conditions in the Antarctic are nearly incredible ; for example, wind 
velocities at Adelie Land have averaged 110 miles per hour for a day, 
more than 60 miles per hour for a month, and about 40 miles per hour 
for an entire year. The American IGY party now maintaining a 
vigil at the South Pole has already recorded temperatures below 
- 100° F. with 15- to 20-knot winds. 

As is well known, the testing of large atomic weapons produces 
considerable amounts of radioactive substances, some of which decay 
rather slowly. A large part of the radioactive material produced by 
atomic weapons tests is injected into upper strata of the air and can 
be used by meteorologists as a tracer of atmospheric movements, for 
example, to determine the rate at which the air at different levels is 
carried from the Northern to the Southern Hemisphere and vice 
versa, and the rate of mixing between the upper and the lower atmos- 
phere. An important IGY objective will be worldwide measurements 
of these artificially radioactive substances. 

GAINS AND LOSSES 

A slight excess or deficit in the input of solar energy over the output 
of infrared radiation from the earth may cause large changes in 
weather and, if long continued, in climate. At present we are unable 
to determine whether such differences between income and outgo exist. 

Here the earth satellite program shows great promise; one of the 
first satellites will carry relatively simple equipment for measuring 
the difference between the amounts of incoming and outgoing radia- 
tion at all points over its path. Later satellite experiments will 
include actual mapping of the earth's cloud and snow cover, allowing 
accurate and continuous measurements of the amount of sunlight 
reflected from the earth, a quantity that can at present only be rather 
crudely estimated. 

A change in average air temperature represents, of course, a gain 
or loss of heat from the air, but it need not represent a gain or loss 
from the ocean-atmosphere-glacier system of the earth. On the other 
hand, an excess of heat could be stored for long periods on the earth 
without much change in the temperature of the lower air. There are 
two great mechanisms for this one : one is the melting of ice caps, the 
other is the heating of the deep waters of the ocean. The latter has by 
far the larger capacity. The energy required to melt all the ice in 
Antarctica is equivalent to about 2i/2 years' supply from the sun at the 
present rate of 175,000 calories per square centimeter each year. This 



SUN, SEA, AND AIR — REVELLE 259 

same amount of energy would raise the average temperature of the 
ocean by only a little more than 1° C. (On the other hand, the melt- 
ing of ice caps would be somewhat more obvious to everyone, since it 
would result in a rise of sea level by at least 200 feet, and the conse- 
quent destruction of most of the world's largest cities!) 

Because of the great heat capacity of the ocean, many meteorolo- 
gists and oceanographers now believe that climatic changes lasting 
over decades or centuries may be intimately related to changes in 
the circulation of the deep sea. Effective techniques for studying this 
circulation have become available only in the last few years, and it 
is little understood. We know that cold water sinks to great depths 
from the surface in high latitudes, moves slowly toward the Equator 
and perhaps across it, and returns by an unknown path to the start- 
ing point. The time required for the round trip is not known; it 
may be measured in decades or millennia. Nor do we know whether 
the circulation is steady or intermittent like the flushing of water in 
a bowl. 

One of the major enterprises of the International Geophysical 
Year will be a series of great oceanogTaphic expeditions, conducted 
by 70 ships belonging to many countries. Their principal objective 
will be to obtain a comprehensive picture of the temperature and 
other properties of the deep sea waters, and to make direct and in- 
direct measurements of their motions. 

THE EARTH AND MAN 

President Eisenhower has said that water is rapidly becoming our 
most critical natural resource. During the last few years, serious 
attempts have been made to develop inexpensive machines for convert- 
ing sea water into fresh water. The fact is, of course, that nature 
herself operates a most effective distillation system. Nearly one-third 
of all the energy of sunlight falling on the sea surface is utilized in 
converting sea water to fresh water by evaporation. The immense 
quantity of solar power used in this way is several thousand times 
all the power produced by our industrial society from hydroelectric 
power and the burning of coal, oil, and natural gas. 

The total quantity of water evaporated, if all of it fell on the 
surface of the land and was uniformly distributed, would result in 
an average rainfall of over 100 inches a year. Evidently the trouble 
with the natural distillation process is not the quantity of fresh 
water produced, but rather that nature's pipelines are badly placed. 
Too much water moves to some areas and not enough to others ; more- 
over, the valve system seems to be capriciously managed. Sometimes 
the discharge is too great, bringing floods, while at other lines there is 
only a trickle and droughts occur. 

Can anything be done about this faulty distribution system? 



260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

The quantity of solar energy used in driving the engine of the sea 
and the atmosphere is so great compared to any of the energy 
sources mider man's control that it would seem impossible for us 
to affect weather or climate materially by any human action. Yet, 
a close look shows there may be some things we could do. lliiny of 
the processes in the atmosphere are metastable: a slight action may 
initiate a very large-scale process. We might learn how to regulate 
climate if we could find the right lever to pull. 

One may predict that with the coming of greater understanding, 
promising methods for control of weather and climate will be found. 
The average reflectivity of the ground surface over the large areas 
might be reduced, for example, by rapid melting of the snow cover, 
thus increasing the percentage of sunlight absorbed. On the other 
hand, it might be possible to shut oil some of the sun's radiation 
before it reaches the earth's surface, for example, by injecting a small 
amount of absorbing or reflecting substances into the upper atmos- 
phere. 

GREAT EXPERIMENT 

During our lifetime we may be witnessing an example of one way 
in which human actions can affect weather and climate. Since the 
beginning of the industrial revolution, an amount of carbon dioxide 
equal to about 12 percent of the total already present in the atmosphere 
has been produced by the burning of coal, oil, and natural gas. The 
ability of the ocean to absorb carbon dioxide is very great and prob- 
ably most of the amount added to the atmosphere during the last 
century has gone into the sea. During the next hundred years, how- 
ever, the increasing use of fossil fuels in our worldwide industrial 
civilization should result in the production of about 1,700 billion tons 
of carbon dioxide — 70 percent of the amount now in the atmosphere. 
Because of the rapid increase in the production rate, the fraction of 
the added carbon dioxide absorbed by the ocean will be lessened and 
an increase of perhaps 20 percent in atmospheric carbon dioxide can 
be expected. The effect of such an increase is not easy to predict, 
but there is some theoretical reason to believe that it could result in 
a warming of the lower atmosphere by several degrees. Thus, by 
consuming within a few generations the fossil fuels laid down in 
sedimentary rocks over many hundreds of millions of years, we are 
conducting, more or less in spite of ourselves, a great geophysical 
experiment. It is of vital importance to keep accurate records of 
this experiment in order to increase our understanding of the mecha- 
nisms controlling climate. With this in mind, careful measurements 
will be made during the IGY of the carbon dioxide content of the 
atmosphere, and studies will be initiated to refuie our estimates of 
the absorption of carbon dioxide in the sea. 



Rocketry^ 

By Donald Cox 

and 
Michael Stoiko 



[With 1 plate] 
INTRODUCTION ' 



Advances in the social and pliysical sciences, as in other fields, are 
usually brought about by a slow process of evolution — by the cumula- 
tive effects of innumerable small contributions. The history of modem 
technology, particularly rocketry, has been the story of such a process. 
Recently, however, four historic events have occurred which, con- 
sidered in themselves, are milestones in the history of modern tech- 
nological development. But when these seemingly independent oc- 
currences are considered together — related to rocketry — they have a 
phenomenal catalytic effect on this normally slow process. 

The first such event occurred on the evening of September 8, 1944, 
the date the first German vengeance weapon, the V-2, fell on London. 
The second event, which startled the world on the morning of August 
G, 1945, was the nuclear destruction of Hiroshima. The third event 
occurred just before noon on January 19, 1946. It was the first suc- 
cessful radar contact with the moon. The fourth and most spectacular 
recent event occurred on October 4, 1957. The "beep . . . beep . . . 
beeps" had announced to the world that man had established his first 
artificial earth satellite. 

These achievements some day will be recorded as the "four scien- 
tific wonders of the age," responsible for changing the course of 
human evolution. Together, they symbolize the accelerating force 
which is rapidly making the story of modern rocketry synonymous 
with the conquest of outer space. The outgrowth of these four sym- 
bols provides the foundations for this world force . . . space-power. 



1 Excerpts from the Preface and from Chapter 2 of Spacepower, and Chapter 3, 
"Rocketry Today," from the same book, by Donald Cox and Michael Stoiko, are reprinted 
by permission of the publisher, The John C. Winston Co. 

Editoe's Note : Since the publication of this book, some of the missiles mentioned In 
this survey have been dropped and many new missiles and facilities have appeared In the 
arsenals of the various nations. 

' Excerpts from Preface to Spacepower. 

261 



262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTmiTION, 195 8 

In order fully to grasp and understand the tremendous impact that 
spacepower will have on all of us, we must look to astronautics, one 
of the most important sciences of this new era. Our definition of 
astronautics would encompass "The science of man's movements 
and/or his instrum.ents in the universe." As such, astronautics covers 
many subdivisions, including anthropology, astronomy, astrophysics, 
space law, space medicine, space sociology, and space flight. It is this 
last area, "space flight," that is the most dramatic when considered 
in relation to the men, money, and material costs involved. Here 
is the vortex around which the other subdivisions revolve and obtain 
sustenance. 

ROCKETRY YESTERDAY" 

The underlying developments which led to the present state-of-the- 
art in rocketry are the results of a combined effort of many nations 
and peoples. Three main periods can be distinguished in the develop- 
ment process: the first period extends from antiquity to A.D. 1242 
and Roger Bacon's introduction of "De Mirabili Potestate Artis et 
Naturae" (On the Marvelous Powers of Art and Nature) ; the second 
period covers Sir Isaac Newton's Laws of Motion through the time 
of Sir William Congreve's rockets (1670 to 1826) ; and the third period 
includes the publication of Goddard's "A Method of Reachmg Ex- 
treme Altitudes" through to the present (1919-58). 

In the first period, man learned how to make gunpowder and how 
to use the propulsive characteristics of this rapidly burning com- 
pound. In the second period, we saw not only the beginnings of 
science in rocketry, but we also witnessed the large-scale development 
and utilization of war rockets. In the third period, with the impetus 
of the Second World War, we saw the rocket develop from its pre- 
viously limited role of an artillery rocket to that of a multipurpose 
weapon and research tool. 

In these three periods, many famous names in history and science 
appear: in the first. Hero of Alexandria and Roger Bacon; in the 
second, Sir Isaac Newton and Sir William Congreve ; and in the third 
appear such contributors as Konstantin E. Ziolkovsky and Nikolai 
A. Rynin of Russia; Hermann Oberth, Max Valier, Eugen Sanger, 
Wernher von Braun of Germany ; Robert Esnault-Pelterie of France ; 
and Dr. Robert H. Goddard of the United States. 

In the early part of the twentieth century modern rocket research 
began with the work of Dr. Goddard, who, backed by a small grant 
from the Smithsonian Institution, directed a group in research and 
development of military rockets during World War I. The group 



• BxcerptB from Chapter 2 of Spacepower. 



ROCKETRY — COX AND STOIKO 263 

was successful, and a demonstration was held at the Aberdeen Proving 
Grounds on November 6 and 7, 1918. The reports from these demon- 
strations were so encouraging tliat the Government authorized limited 
rocket research between World War I and World War II. 

It was not generally known, however, in or out of the United States, 
until 1919, that Dr. Goddard was engaged in rocket research and de- 
velopment. At that time, Goddard delivered his now famous mono- 
graph to the Smithsonian Institution entitled "A Method of Keaching 
Extreme Altitudes." In the second part of this paper, in addition to 
the report of his experimental work, Dr. Goddard showed that a 
rocket with a gross weight of 22,000 pounds would be capable of 
escaping from the earth and delivering a payload of magnesium 
powder to the moon. He estimated that in impacting on the moon a 
flash could be created which would be visible on the earth. It is inter- 
esting to note that the Vanguard launching vehicle weighs 22,000 
pounds and, secondly, that many people today are proposing that we 
send nuclear or other type warheads to the moon to create an explosion 
which would be visible on earth. 

By 1926 Dr. Goddard's research activities included almost every 
aspect of rocket design and culminated in a feasibility demonstration 
of the world's first liquid-propellant rockets. Although the demon- 
stration was successful, his accomplishments were ahead of their time 
and not immediately recognized. 

Dr. Goddard continued his research first in New England and then 
later in the deserts of New Mexico. Many experimental rocket- 
stabilization flights were conducted in New Mexico. On December 
30, 1930, an 11-foot rocket reached a height of 2,000 feet and a velocity 
of 500 miles per hour. Another flight, on March 28, 1935, achieved a 
height of 4,800 feet and a velocity of 550 miles per hour. Subsequent 
rocket firings achieved altitudes of 7,500 feet and speeds of 700 miles 
per hour. 

Some of Dr. Goddard's contributions to rocketry, of which there 
were many, were as follows : 

1. Mathematical analysis of multistage rockets. 

2. Feasibility of liquid propellants. 

3. Centrifugal propellant pump. 

4. The use of jet vane fins in the rocket exhaust. 

5. Invention of the first practical gyroscope. 

Goddard is truly the father of modern rocketry. In 1922, Hermann 
Oberth wrote to Goddard, requesting a copy of "A Method of Keaching 
Extreme Altitudes." The following year, Oberth published his classic 
book on space travel, "Die Rakete zu den Planetenraumen" (The 
Rocket to the Interplanetary Spaces) . This book, written by a mathe- 
matician, discussen in great detail the theoretical requirements for 

592520—59 18 



264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

contiguous and interplanetary space travel. The book brought ad- 
verse comments from the uninformed and praise from the disciples. 
Subsequent publication supporting Oberth's thesis was Dr. Walter 
Hohmann's book, "Die Erreichbarkeit der Himmelskorper" (The 
Attainability of the Celestial Bodies). This book was a highly theo- 
retical treatment of minimum energy departure trajectories from the 
earth and return to the earth from the other planets. This was fol- 
lowed by Max Valier's "Der Vorstoss in den Weltraum" (A Dash into 
Space) . These classics were the forerunners of the many publications 
which followed on the feasibility of space flight. 

In 1929 Hermann Oberth published his most important work, "Die 
Wege zur Eaumschiffahrt" (The Roads to Space Travel). In this 
book Oberth presented a most complete analysis of contiguous and 
interplanetary space flight. He discussed in great detail the prob- 
lems associated with the design of manned space vehicles and flights 
in these zones. He also covered the possibility of artificial satellites. 

As a direct result of Oberth's publications, the German Society for 
Space Travel (Verein fiir Eaumschiffahrt) Avas formed. 

The German Eocket Society for the advancement of space travel 
was organized in 1929. After going through a period of natural 
growth, i.e., developing a unity of purpose and procuring test facil- 
ities, the group was successful in developing a number of liquid rockets. 
In 1933 the military, after witnessing a formal rocket demonstration 
by the society, commissioned one of the society members, Wernher 
von Braun, then aged 24, to develop an experimental military rocket. 

In 12 short years (1933-45), the German military rocket research 
program had gone through an amazing period of development. 
Rocket research had progressed from tlie A-1 in 1933, weighing 330 
pounds, which was never fired, to the famous A-4, commonly known 
as the V-2, weighing 24,000 pounds. Approximately 1,120 V-2's were 
fired on England, with 1,050 actually falling on London, and 2,500 
were fired against other targets in Europe. To make the total com- 
plete, it should be mentioned that probably another thousand V-2's 
were fired for training purposes, and still hundreds more were brought 
to the United States for research. 

Advanced thinking and planning had also gone into the A-10, a 
two-stage missile which would extend the range of the A-4 across the 
Atlantic. 

To carry out this accelerated military rocket program, the 
Peenemiindo Research Institute had been established in 1937 on the 
Baltic seacoast by the German Army. These facilities, which have 
long since become as famous as the rocket produced there, were very 
short lived. In the early months of 1945, the Peenemiinde facilities 
were captured by Eussian armies. 



ROCKETRY — COX AND STOIKO 265 

ROCKETRY TODAY * 

The present state of science aud of technological knowledge permits the 
building of machines that can rise beyond the limits of the atmosphere of the 
earth. 

After further development these machines will be capable of attaining 
such velocities that tliey — left undisturbed in the void of ether space — will not 
fall back to earth; furthermore, tliey will even be able to leave the zone of 
terrestrial attraction. 

— Hermann Oberth. 

Die Rakete zu den Planetenrdumen — 1923 

(The Rocket to the Interplanetary Spaces). 

Shortly before the capture of Peenemimde, in the final phases of 
World War II, the United States, its Allies, and Enssia realized that 
the Germans were way ahead of every nation in guided missile devel- 
opment and application. Accordingly, they organized teams of 
technical experts, both civilian and military, to search the German 
research centers and factories for information pertaining to rocket 
development. "V^Tien the European war ended, these technical teams 
proceeded to fulfill their assigned tasks. As a direct result of this 
action, literally tons of captured documents and all types of rocket 
hardware were confiscated by the participating nations. 

One very important part of this program was the search for ex- 
perienced rocket people. Of the thousands of technical personnel 
who worked at Peenemiinde and other rocket-producing facilities, 
it was reported that the Soviet central agency, whose sole function 
was to recruit German rocket specialists after World War II, rounded 
up a total of 5,000 scientists, engineers, and technicians from the 
Peenemiinde project. The United States took under its wings a few 
big names but let the bulk of the Peenemiinde colony slip through its 
fingers to Kussia. In this manner, Russia acquired almost all of 
Hitler's best rocket brains, and within an incredibly short period had 
them working around the clock 7 days a week on their rocket develop- 
ments. 

Thus, it was not mitil the capture of Peenemiinde and the roundup 
of its scientists, documents, and missiles that a guided-missile program 
was initiated by some of the major nations of the world. Since 
then, however, the status of worldwide guided-missile programs indi- 
cates that Argentina, the British Conunonwealth, Italy, Japan, 
France, Holland, Russia, Switzerland, Sweden, and the United States 
are actively engaged in a missile technological race on a scale that 
has seen no precedent or parallel in the course of human history. 
This missile race is centered around four basic military categories 
(see pi. 1) which include: (1) air-to-air (AAM) ; (2) air-to-surface 



* Chapter 3 of Spacepower. 



266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

(ASM) ; (3) surface-to-air (SAM) ; and (4) surface-to-surface 
(SSM) missiles. 

Let us examine in detail "rocketry today" and the results of this 
12-year missile armament marathon. 

ARGENTINA 

Argentina is the only known country in South America that has 
entered the missile field. Its entry was with the AF3, a surface- 
to-surface missile developed for use against tanks, trucks, and small 
ships. 

BRITISH COMMONWEALTH 

The British Commonwealth's contributions to rocketry have been 
the subject of many highly controversial debates in the last few years. 
The authors believe that the most accurate account of the British 
achievements was recently expressed by Mr. Leonard Bertin, science 
correspondent for The London Daily Telegram and Morning Post, 
who, after touring major missile facilities in the British Isles and 
visiting the long-range missile test site in Woomera, Australia, stated : 
"With the limited resources it has available, England's missile de- 
velopment program is actually achieving a great deal." 

The first concrete evidence supporting Mr. Bertin's opinion is the 
recent missiles data and photographic releases by the Ministry of 
Supply. This, coupled with announcement by The Society of 
British Aircraft Constructors (SBAC) that 400 British companies 
are actively engaged m missile and development work, substantiates 
that the British Commonwealth is advancing steadily in missile de- 
velopment. In addition, at the Royal Aircraft Establishment, scien- 
tists are actively working on new concepts related to basic missile 
research. The Farnborough facility is known to have a well-equipped 
laboratory, including the TRIDAC guided-missile simulator, and 
the Hawker Siddeley Co. has established one of the newer missUe- 
research facilities near Coventry. 

Supporting these research and development centers are several test 
facilities. The Ministry of Supply has added a 200,G00-pound pro- 
pulsion test complex (facility) to supplement the many currently 
in existence at this center. Also scheduled for completion in 1958 
is the Ministry of Defense's large new missile firing range at South 
Uist off the west coast of Scotland. To date, however, the only 
operating range in England is the 250-acre Aberporth facility on 
the Welsh coast. It is estimated that about 1,000 large test missiles 
are lamiched at this facility yearly in addition to the many hundreds 
of smaller vehicles such as target drones. Jodrell Bank, the world's 
largest radio telescope, is situated in England and plays a vital role 
in tracking missiles and satellites. 



ROCKETRY — COX AND STOIKO 267 

The best-known Anglo- Australian rocket test facility is the Woo- 
mera Range in Australia, the site at which the majority of Britain's 
missiles have been tested. The Woomera test site consists of a corridor 
that cuts across 1,200 desolate miles of Australia, extending northwest 
to the shores of the Indian Ocean. This test range can easily be in- 
creased to 2,700 miles by extending it to Christmas Island in the Indian 
Ocean. 

Today, as during World War II, the major concern of the British is 
defense, and missiles have been chosen as the best means, as borne 
out by Defense Minister Duncan Sandys' announcement in April 
1957 that the English Electric P-1 is the last manned fighter; that 
Avro Vulcan B2 and the Handley Page Victor B2 are the last of the 
manned bombers; that all interception of enemy craft in defense of 
England will eventually be made by a single operational air-to-air 
missile, the Firestreak ; that pending operational use of an intercon- 
tinental ballistic missile (ICBM), the range of the V-bombers would 
be increased by the use of an air-to-surface missile ; and that because of 
the destructive capabilities of nuclear weapons, target defense will 
eventually be restricted to ICBM retaliation bases eliminating old- 
time emphasis on populated area protection. 

In support of this concept, England has developed or is in various 
stages of developing missiles in the basic four categories : air-to-air, 
air-to-surface, surface-to-air, and the ever-important, long-range, sur- 
face-to-surface missile. 

In the air-to-air category, three missiles are of importance — the 
Fireflash, Firestreak, and the Red Dean. The performance of the 
Fireflash, the first operational missile in this category, grew out of 
World War II requirements of the Royal Air Force. The Fireflash is 
currently in use on the Supermarine Swift MK7, the Hawker Hunter, 
and the Avon Sabre fighters. The vehicle configuration is character- 
istic of many British vehicles in that it has wrap-around, solid-pro- 
pellant boost motors. 

It is significant to note that the wrap-aromid booster technique seems 
to be unique with the British. Normally, missile boosters are attached 
in tandem; i.e., the missile is placed on top of the booster. This 
arrangement leads to a long, slim vehicle configuration. In the wrap- 
around configuration, the booster, usually in three or four pairs, is 
placed in parallel aromid the outside of the main rocket. This arrange- 
ment in turn leads to a short stubby rocket. In either case the boosters 
drop away after firing. It would be most difficult at this time to state 
that one technique is actually better than the other. 

The second vehicle in this category, the Firestreak, is approxi- 
mately 7 feet in length and somewhat larger than the Fireflash. It 
is propelled by a solid-propellant motor. Its range is 8 miles, and 



268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

guidance is infrared, i.e., heat seeking. Tliis missile is scheduled 
for use on the English Electric P-1 and the Gloster Javelin fighters. 
The Koyal Navy will also use it with its DH Sea Vixens aircraft. 
The Red Dean, the third in the series, was being developed by 
Vickers- Armstrongs when it was rumored to have been canceled. 

In the air-to-surface category only one missile is reported to be 
under development. The missile is expected to be comparable in 
size to the U.S. Air Force's Rascal, and its application is reported 
to be with the RAF's Vulcan and Victor bombers. 

In the surface-to-air category there are three missiles, the Blood- 
hound, Thunderbird, and the Sea Slug. All are reported now in pro- 
duction. The Bloodhound is expected to be Britain's first operational 
missile in this category. The second most publicized missile in this 
family is the Thunderbird. Performance of this vehicle is said to 
be on the same order as the U.S. Nike Hercules. The Royal Navy's 
entry in this family is the Sea Slug, designed especially for naval 
defense. The missile configuration includes the wrap-around, solid- 
propellant boosters as well as a solid-propellant sustainer motor. It 
has medium-range interception capability and can reach any aircraft 
flight altitude necessary for interception. 

The surface-to-surface family boasts of only one vehicle, a 2,000- 
mile intermediate-range ballistic missile (IRBM). This vehicle has 
no known name at present. De Havilland in conjunction with Rolls 
Royce has prime responsibility for developing this missile for the 
RAF. The ICBM which was being developed by Vickers-Arm- 
strongs was canceled for undisclosed reasons. 

Among British Commonwealth missiles, Canada has made one at- 
tempt to develop an air-to-air missile, the Velvet Glove, but a change 
in government policy called for canceling it. Australia's contribu- 
tions to date are the Jindivik subsonic bomber and the huge Woomera 
rocket test range. 

It is apparent that the British have accomplished and are achiev- 
ing a great deal in all phases of missile technology. In terms of 
trained manpower, research, and test facilities, the British Empire's 
potential is excellent — a potential which should someday render 
her one of the top thre« leaders in this field. 

ITALY 

Italy, one of the pioneers in jet propulsion, has been interested in 
rocketry since the end of World War 11. This interest has been dis- 
played by individuals, government, and industry. However, lack 
of funds and governm_ent direction has delayed positive action. In 
spite of these handicaps, however, Italy has developed several mili- 
tary rockets, two of which are the Airone and the Robotti. The 



ROCKETRY — COX AND STOIKO 269 

Airone is a solid-propellant, surface-to-surface missile approximately 
6 feet long and 3 inches in diameter. Kange is reported to be over 
6 miles. Tlie Robotti is a surface-to-air missile propelled by a liquid 
rocket engine using nitric acid and aniline. It is the opinion of many 
rocket experts that Italy has excellent research potential and will 
within the next few years become a leader in the missile production 
field. 

JAPAN 

Japan, one of the more recent entries in the missile field, is described 
as one of the most enthusiastic. This country's missile activities in- 
clude military rocketry, research rocketry, and space-flight studies. 

The military rockets include the MM-1 and the TMA-O-AC. The 
MM-1 is an air-to-air guided missile, and the TMA-O-AC is identi- 
fied simply as a military rocket. 

Japan's research rocket program is the result of a decision of the 
National Science Council of Japan to participate in the 1957-58 Inter- 
national Geophysical Year (IGY). As part of this program, a de- 
cision was made to use sounding rockets to supplement balloon obser- 
vations. To develop these rockets in time for the IGY, a 4:-year mis- 
sile development program was initiated. This program called for a 
series of five rockets — the Pencil, Baby, Kappa, Sigma, and Omega — 
which would progressively lead to a very high (150-mile) IGY sound- 
ing rocket. Japan aimounced in October 1957 that one of her rockets 
had gained a 75-mile altitude. 

FRANCE 

In Europe, France has been one of the leaders in the missile field 
since the end of World War II and has established an impressive 
record with her relatively limited resources. Her missile develop- 
ments have been geared to the type of war she feels she is most apt to 
fight. In line with this philosophy, antiaircraft and wire-guided 
antitank missile research has been emphasized. 

Some of the better known antiaircraft missiles are the Navy's 
Maruca and Masalca, and the Army's Sud-Est (SE) series and 
LRBA-DEFA's ramp-launched PARCA. 

In the antitank category, the SSIO and the SSll progi-ams are 
outstanding. The first program, the SSlO, includes the SFECMAS- 
5200 and DEFA's Entac missiles. These two missiles are almost 
identical in range and velocity. Both are wire controlled and can 
be launched against tanks either from the surface or from the air. 
The second program, the SSll, includes the SFECMAS-5210 missile, 
which is said to be a longer range version of the SFECMAS-5200. 

Four other surface-to-surface missiles of unportance include: 
(1) Zborowski's BTZ-411.01 bazooka-type, two-stage, solid-propellant 



270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 58 

missile; (2) the infantryman's Liitin, a radio-guided, rocket-boosted 
ramjet; (3) the Ogre I, photo-reconnaissance, liquid-propellant- 
boosted ramjet; and (4) the SE-4200, which is ramp launched by two 
solid boosters and ramjet sustained. The missile is currently in 
production. 

There are five missiles in the air-to-air category: the M04, M20, 
M051, M510, and M511. Of these five, the M04 is probably the best 
known. The M04 can be used in either air-to-air or surface-to-air ap- 
plications. It is approximately 15 feet long, 16 inches in diameter, 
and weighs over 1,000 pounds. This missile utilizes a liquid-propellant 
rocket engine, delivering 2,750 pounds of thrust for 14 seconds, and it 
can fly over 1,000 miles per hour, carrying approximately 245 pounds 
payload. The M04 was first successfully tested in 1952. 

The M20 and M051 are Matra production missiles carried by the 
Mystere A and B fighters. The M20 uses a liquid-propellant engine, 
and the M051 utilizes a solid-propellant motor. 

The last two missiles in this category are the M510 and M511. They 
are comparable in length to the Matra M051. Although the perform- 
ance of these missiles is classified, it has been reported that the M511 
is scheduled for use with the Trident rocket-powered airplane. 

French air-to-surface missiles are the least developed and consist of 
only three missiles, the BBIO, SNCASE 1522, and an ASM, which is 
said to be similar to the U.S. Air Force's Rascal. 

French missile designers' independent look at their missile require- 
ments has resulted in some truly remarkable advances in the state of 
the art. Their wire-guided antitank missiles and their antiaircraft 
missiles are tops in their fields. The French method of guiding anti- 
tank missiles by wire (similar to a kite) has been adopted by the United 
States. Also, the adaptation of ramjets in small missiles by the 
French has been revolutionary. France is rated as a third-ranking 
military power in rocket development. 



A smaller nation contributing to rocketry today is Holland. Utiliz- 
ing a French SFECMAS SSlO pulsejet motor, which develops 190 
pounds thrust, the Aviolanda Co. developed a pilotless target air- 
craft. The plane is boost-launched by rockets, has a conventional 
aircraft configuration, and is radio controlled. 

SOVIET UNION 

The Soviet Union, one of the two giants in the g-uided-missile 
field today, achieved its missile mastery within a record-breaking 
period from an incredibly primitive start. It is fairly obvious from 
present results that the Russians, after taking over Peenemiinde 



ROCKETRY — COX AND STOIKO 271 

and enlisting the aid of many of its former specialists, made ex- 
ceptionally good use of both. 

Although many, if not most, of her current missiles reflect the 
design and thinking of the German influence, Russia today is com- 
pletely on her own. The transition from almost complete dependence 
on German know-how to complete independence took place essentially 
within three 5-year periods. 

The first period, from 1945 to 1950, was one in which the Rus- 
sian missile industry depended a hundred percent on the experi- 
ence of the German rocket specialists in all branches. This was 
the Russian learning period. It is reported that from the beginning 
the Russians followed a policy of picking clean the Nazi rocket 
scientists' brains. Soviet scientists and engineers observed every 
move the Germans made and quizzed them endlessly on the Peene- 
miinde experiments and general German rocket theory. 

In the second period, from 1950-55, Russian specialists began to 
phase out their German counterparts. And finally, in the third 
period, i.e., since 1955, the Russian missile industry has been entirely 
on its own and is making tremendous headway. 

Today, the Russian arsenal not only includes special application 
missiles, such as their satellite-launching and high-altitude research 
vehicles, but also has missiles in all four major military categories : 
air-to-air, air-to-surface, surface-to-air, and surface-to-surface. The 
last category, surface-to-surface, includes the particularly important 
submarine underwater-launched missile. 

In the air-to-air category the Russians basically have two missiles, 
the 3.2-inch rocket and M-lOO series. The 3.2-inch rocket is the 
standard missile in this category. It is said that the 3.2 is a carryover 
from the German World War II R4M, which was a spin-stabilized, 
short-range, solid- propell ant missile. 

The M-lOO and M-IOOA are higher performing rockets from the 
same family. The M-IOOA is approximately 8 feet long and 10 
inches in diameter, and weighs between 100 and 200 pounds. It is a 
production missile propelled by a solid-propellant motor with a range 
of about 5 miles. 

There are reported to be four missiles in the air-to-surface group : 
the RS82, RS132, RS-URS-132, and the Comet III. The first three 
of this grouping are unguided solid-propellant missiles, and the 
Comet III, which is radar guided, has a range of approximately 
100 miles. 

The surface-to-air category lists three missiles : the M-1, T-7, and 
the T-8. The first vehicle, the M-1, is 14.7 feet long, 22 inches in 
diameter, and has a takeoff gross weight of 3,300 pounds. It is solid- 
boost launched, sustained by a hydrogen peroxide and hydrazine 



272 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

liquid-propellant engine, and has a maximum operational ceiling of 
about 50,000 feet. The performance of this missile is somewhat com- 
parable to the U-S. Army's Nike. Although the M-1 is now obsolete, 
it initially was pressed into service several years ago as a defense 
against the U.S. Air Force's B-29 and B-36 bombers. 

The second missile in this category, the T-7, is a more efficiently 
performing missile based on the German World War II Wasserfall. 
The T-7 is 25 feet long and 25 inches in diameter. It weighs 3 to 
4 tons and has a maximum. altitude of 75,000 feet. Like the M-1, 
it is boost-launched and sustained by a liquid-propellant engine. The 
missile was designed to defend Russian targets against potential at- 
tacks from B-47 and B-52 bombers. United States authorities have 
confirmed that these missiles are currently in production and are 
located at missile sites around most major target areas. 

The last vehicle in the surface-to-air group is the T-8, which is 
employed as a barrage flak weapon against low-altitude targets. 

In the surface-to-surface type can be found the heart of the Russian 
military and scientific missile strength. As such, this list includes 
the medium-range ballistic missiles, intermediate-range missiles, inter- 
continental ballistic missiles, as well as the satellite-launching and 
lunar vehicles. Each of the missiles in this family is of extreme 
importance, and therefore will be discussed in some detail in the order 
mentioned above. 

There are three missiles in the medium-range, surface-to-surface 
category. These missiles are the T-1 (M-101), the S8, and the 
T-7A. The T-1 is said to be an improved version of the German 
V-2. It is estimated to be 50 feet long, 5.5 feet in diameter, and 
powered by a liquid oxygen and kerosene rocket engine. The engine 
thrust is rated at 77,000 pounds, and the range is given as 400 miles. 
The S8 is said to be another modification of the German ^-2, and is 
somewhat similar to the T-1. This vehicle is specifically designed 
to be launched from underground tubes. The last missile of the 
medium-range, surface-to-surface type is the T-7A. This vehicle is 
25 feet lo2ig, has a diameter of 2.5 feet, and a takeoff gross weight of 
8,800 pounds. It is reported that the vehicle is currently in produc- 
tion and is operational. 

The Russians have four missiles in their arsenal in the inter- 
mediate range, surface-to-surface classification. Two of these, the 
T-2 (M-103) and T-4 (M-102), belong to the Army, and Comets 
I and II are Soviet Navy missiles. 

The Army's T-2 is an improved version of the German two-stage 
A-4/A-9, which was initially designed by the Germans to bomb 
New York during World War II. The T-2 is approximately 125 
feet in length, 15 feet in diameter, and has a range of 1,800 miles. 



ROCKETRY — COX AND STOIKO 273 

The first-stage propulsion system is a liquid-propellant rocket engine 
utilizing liquid oxygen and kerosene as propellants. The engine 
thrust is rated at approximately 254,000 pounds. It should be noted 
that the second stage of the T-2 is basically the T-1 (engine thrust 
77,000 pounds). 

The second of the Army's intermediate-range vehicles is the T-4. 
The T-4 is still another version of the German V-2, differing only by 
the addition of wings. This vehicle is a production item and is com- 
monly known as the winged T-1. It has the same engine as the T-1 
and a reported maximum range of 1,000 miles. This missile is also 
recognized as a test bed for the T-4A, hypersonic glide bomber. 

In order to evaluate fully and accurately the Kussian missile 
capability, the Soviet naval missile arsenal must be taken into con- 
sideration. It is most generally known that the Soviet Navy is well 
equipped for missile warfare. Its submarine fleet is said to number 
between 400 to 800 operational vessels with an additional 100 under 
construction. In addition to the vast submarine fleet, the Soviet 
Navy is being equipped with several types of missile ships; for ex- 
ample, antiaircraft and short- and medium-range missile attack ships. 
United States Naval Intelligence has admitted that the Soviet Navy 
is second only to the United States Fleet in numbers and is growing 
very fast. 

Probably one of the most potentially dangerous weapons systems 
that the Kussians can deploy against the United States and the Free 
World is their growing submarine fleet, coupled with their under- 
water-launched ballistic missiles. Of the several techniques available 
for launching missiles underwater, in all probability a modified ver- 
sion of the deadly German V-2 submersible ballistic missile launcher 
would be used. In the older German plan, three V-2 missiles in their 
containers could be towed horizontally and underwater by one sub- 
marine at approximately 15 miles per hour from German seaports to 
any coastline, depending only on the cruise capacity of the submarine. 
Once on location, and to ready the missile for laimching, the ballast 
end of the container was to be flooded, forcing the container into the 
vertical position. When in the upright position, a built-in gyroscope 
system would hold the container in the desired launch position by 
comiteracting any yaw or roll movements. The missile container 
was to be outfitted with a control station and propellant tankage in 
addition to the necessary servicing equipment. The weight of the 
container and missile was about 70 tons, of which the missile and pro- 
pellants represented about 35 tons. After the necessary prelaunch 
servicing, the missile was to be remotely fired from the mother 
submarine. 

When the Eussians took Peenemiinde, they acquired this fantastic 
weapons system which was then ready for production I 



274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

It is no secret that the Eussian Navy is today capable of towing 
huge ballistic rockets in their submersible containers to any coastline 
that it desires. With only part of its fleet of 800 submarines assigned 
to such a mission, it could position offshore in close proximity to any 
target within the United States. Furthermore, a mission of this type 
does not require ICBM's nor necessarily IRBM's. Most target areas 
could probably be reached with the Soviet Navy's Comet I and 
Comet II missiles reputed to have a range of 100 and TOO miles, 
respectively. 

Dr. Walter Dornberger, former Peenemiinde commandant, has 
said be believes the Russian "emphasis on underwater vessels indicates 
a plan to use submarines offensively, in American waters, quite possi- 
bly as tow vessels for missile launchers." 

Completing the military arsenal are Russia's ICBM and antipodal 
bomber programs. The Russian ICBM designated as the T-3 (M- 
104) is reported to be a two-stage vehicle approxim.ately 100 to 160 
feet in length, and 100 to 150 tons in weight. The first stage is said 
to be powered by two T-2 motors (254,000 pounds of thrust each), 
and the second stage by a single T-1 motor (77,000 pounds of thrust) . 
The hypersonic antipodal (skip-glide) bomber has been reported in 
a nmnber of journals as weighing 100 tons, with the boost stage en- 
gines delivering between 800,000 and 1,000,000 pounds thrust and 
having an attack capability at approximately 10,000 miles per hour. 

The last family of vehicles in the surface-to-surface category and 
certainly one of the most interesting is the scientific research vehicle. 
Two vehicles of particular current interest are the satellite-launching 
vehicle and the lunar vehicle. 

Since the Russians launched their first earth satellite, they have 
not as yet officially released information regarding the satellite- 
launching vehicle. This silence on the part of the Russian scientists 
and engineers has resulted in many irresponsible press releases from 
responsible quarters in the United States regarding the Soviet capa- 
bility. However, cooler heads have prevailed, and, today, there seems 
to be a consensus regarding this vehicle's configuration as well as the 
over- all Russian missile capability. 

It is most generally agreed that the Russian satellite-launching 
vehicle is basically a modification of the T-3 intercontinental ballistic 
missile, and that it was assembled adapting existing hardware such 
as the T-1 and Wasserfall engines. The vehicle is described as being 
approximately 100 feet long, 7 to 8 feet in diameter, and having a 
takeoff gross weight of 150,000 pounds. It is a three-stage vehicle 
using the same propellants in all stages, namely, liquid oxygen and 
kerosene. The first-stage propulsion system is the 254,000-pound- 
thrust T-2 engine; the second stage is the T-1, 77,000-pound-thrust 



ROCKETRY — COX AND STOIKO 275 

engine; and the third stage is said to be a 20,000-pound-thrust im- 
proved Wasserf all engine. 

SWITZERLAND 

Another nation which has been actively engaged in missile pro- 
duction is Switzerland. The Orelikon Co. has developed missiles in 
all but one of the four major military categories. 

The surface-to-air (antiaircraft) development of the "Series 50" 
missiles started shortly after World War II. They weigh about 550 
pounds each and have a range and ceiling of 12 miles. The more 
recent "Series 54" has a takeoff gross weight of 772 pounds. It is 
powered by a nitric acid-hydrocarbon fuel, liquid rocket engine de- 
livering about 2,200 pounds thrust. The range and ceiling are 15.5 
miles and 9.3 miles respectively. The "Series 56" and "Series 57" 
are the latest versions under development. 

In the air-to-surface category, Orelilcon has produced two outstand- 
ing FF, FF (forward-firing, folding-fin) missiles. These two missiles 
have been developed expressly for the British Gloster Meteor and 
Venom aircraft. The Cobra, another Orelikon missile, is a surface- 
to-surface, wire-controlled, solid-propellant, antitank missile. The 
weight of the Cobra is reported to be one-tenth the weight of the 
U.S. Army's Dart. 

The most significant aspect of the Orelikon Co.'s operation is its 
policy of selling missiles to any foreign power throughout the world. 

SWEDEN 

Sweden, another small nation engaged in missile activities, has one 
of the better rounded programs. In addition to her missile activity, 
she is actively engaged in research on high-energy fuels, ramjet pro- 
pulsion, and advanced rocket designs. Specifically, Sweden's missile 
program has one missile in three of the four basic military categories. 
These include the Jaktrobot, an air-to-air, in development; the 
Sjorobot, a surface-to-surface naval missile soon to become oper- 
ational ; and the Luf tf orsvarsrobot, a surface-to-air missile in develop- 
ment for her Air Force since 1955. This missile is said to be capable 
of interception at very high altitudes and at extreme ranges (120 to 
150 miles). 

UNITED STATES 

The United States missile program after World War II was one 
which emphasized the "broad look" into the state-of-the-art and not 
quantity production of systems with questionable tactical value, 
whereas the Soviets adopted postwar crash programs which utilized 
German rocketry knowledge both for immediate production and as 
a point of departure for building systems that could span continents. 

It was intended that the policy of the United States should eventu- 



276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

ally result in the development and production of a select few missiles 
which would be the best available in their respective categories. It 
was also intended that this period, like the Russian 5-year "brain 
picking" period, should fill many of the basic research and engineering 
gaps as well as build up a cadre of missile specialists throughout the 
supporting industries. 

This concept, coupled with the pressures of an uncertain interna- 
tional picture, was indirectly responsible for fostering the much-dis- 
cussed parallel programing of the missile efforts which is still in 
existence today (Jupiter-Thor). Although the international pres- 
sures during the immediate postwar period were not as acute (because 
of the then nuclear superiority in the United States) as they are today, 
they were, nevertheless, present. 

These pressures even in the postwar period did not permit a normal, 
step-by-step engineering approach. Instead they dictated the 
simultaneous support of several approaches to the same problem in 
the hope that one would pay off. It was recognized that each branch 
of the military service had special tactical obligations possibly re- 
quiring missiles in the same category, and, furthermore, that these 
requirements would naturally lead to competition and probably dupli- 
cation in some areas. Moreover, as the state-of-the-art developed, a 
more critical evaluation of these projects was possible. These evalua- 
tions resulted in canceling less promising projects (Navaho) and 
placing greater emphasis on the more promising ones (Atlas and 
Titan). 

As to the soundness of this philosophy, there is agreement among 
those close to the facts that this concept has permitted the investiga- 
tion of a greater number of approaches to a particular missile problem ; 
that this policy has also resulted in producing in a shorter period of 
time greater quantities of teclmical information, which was readily 
exchanged between projects, allowing one group to profit from the 
experience of the other ; and that in the final analysis it has developed 
the potential for producing far better weapons systems in the future. 

Perhaps the most significant event after World War II which gave 
the greatest impetus to American rocketry was the shipment of stocks 
of unused German V-2's for upper-air research and operational train- 
ing purposes. The highlight of this program came in 1946 when a 
two-stage vehicle consisting of a WAC Corporal atop a V-2 reached 
a record altitude of 244 miles and a speed of 5^000 miles per hour. 

To supplement the depleted V-2 stockpiles in the latter part of 1940, 
limited funds were appropriated for building bigger and better re- 
search rockets. The Aerobee and the Martin Viking were developed 
at this time. Viking 11 still holds the world's altitude record for a 
single-stage rocket (158.4 miles). 



ROCKETRY — COX AND STOIKO 277 

With the advent of war in Korea, missile development programs 
were given new impetus. This acceleration was reflected in the missile 
budget. In the fiscal year 1951 the missile budget was $21 million; 
in 1952, it was increased to $169 million ; and in 1953, it reached $800 
million. The one-billion mark was surpassed in 1954; and, in late 
1957, it went over the two-billion-dollars-a-year level and is still 
increasing. 

Thus, within the last 10 years, the United States missile industry has 
grown from the precarious incubator stage to a healthy three-billion- 
dollars-a-year business and is still expanding in all directions. 

There are today in the United States approximately 1,000 industries 
engaged in development, research, or production of rockets and 
missiles. To some, rocketry represents 100 percent of their business ; 
furthermore, these industries employ about 50,000 engineers and tech- 
nical specialists, as well as an estimated 100,000 other employees on 
the nontechnical level. The three branches of the Armed Forces have 
also committed a significant percentage of their manpower (in addi- 
tion to their utilization of more than half of the nation's civilian 
scientific manpower) to implement their respective missile defense 
responsibilities. 

Since the early V-2 experiments, the Nation has developed and 
produced successful missiles in all four major military categories. 
The giants in the surface-to-surface category are nearing an advanced 
stage of development, and by the end of 1958 the United States 
should have successfully lamiched several artificial earth satellites. 

Without question, rocketry in the United States today is in a crucial 
transitional period where momentary daily developments can alter 
significantly the scientific, political, and military status of the Nation. 
To appreciate its current missile position, let us examine in greater 
detail some of the most important missiles in the basic tactical and 
strategic categories, considering first the air-to-air family. 

There are, as this is written, four major missiles in the air-to-air 
category : the Mighty Mouse, Falcon, Sparrow I, and the Sidewinder. 
Of these four, the Mighty Mouse is the oldest and best known. It has 
been the most reliable and for years the most utilized of its category. 
The Mighty Mouse is 48 inches long, 2.75 inches in diameter, and is 
propelled by a solid rocket motor. The projectile is equipped with 
a homing head and a proximity fuze. The power of the Air Force's 
Mighty Mouse is equivalent to a 70-mm. cannon shell which probably 
is sufficient to bring down the largest aircraft. 

One of the newer guided types of Air Force air-to-air missiles is 
the Falcon. The Falcon is slightly less than 78 inches in length and 
has a span of 20 inches. It is powered by a solid-propellant motor 
with 6,000-pounds thrust, has a range of about 5 miles, and a top 



278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

velocity better than 1,200 miles per hour. The missile is radar 
guided, and its kill rate is high, Tliis missile has the lethal power 
to stop any aircraft. 

Two of the newer missiles in this category are the Navy's Sparrow I 
and the Sidewinder. The Sparrow, now operational in the fleet, is 
powered by a solid motor and is radar guided. The accuracy of this 
missile has been demonstrated against other aircraft and missiles. 
There are currently two other versions of the Sparrow, the Sparrow 
II and the Sparrow III. It has been reported that the Sparrow II 
will replace the Canadian Velvet Glove. 

The Sidewinder is another naval air operational missile. It is 9 
feet long and 41/^ inches in diameter. The powerplant is a solid- 
propellant motor. Guidance is infrared homing. The range is ap- 
proximately 5 miles and currently the kill rate is said to be 7 out of 
10. It is reported that the Navy intends to replace the Sparrow I 
with the Sidewinder. 

There are three other missiles in this category that should be men- 
tioned. The first is the Ding-Dong, a liquid-propelled missile capable 
of carrying atomic warheads. Little is known of this missile, but 
it is said to be in the advanced stages of development. The second 
is the Diamondback. The performance of this missile is not known. 
Finally, the third is the Navy's Zuni. The Zuni is an air-to-air or an 
air-to-ground missile. It can be used in conjunction with high-per- 
formance fighters and attack-type aircraft. It can be used against 
other aircraft as well as against such ground targets as tanks, gun 
implacements, etc. 

In the air-to-surface category the Navy seems to be particularly 
active, especially in antisubmarine applications. In the past decade 
the Navy has had more than six missiles in this family, although it is 
not known whether any are currently operational. The Tiny Tim is 
the best known of this category. Since the Tiny Tim, there have been 
the Petrel, Dove, Goose, and Duck. 

More recently, the Navy has been evaluating the Bullpup, also an 
air-to-ground missile. It is expected that this missile will soon join 
the fleet. The missile is approximately 11 feet long and a foot in 
diameter. It is powered by a solid-propellant motor. The Bulldog, 
a larger improved version of the Bullpup, is also a solid-propellant 
missile in this class. 

Finally, one of the newer Navy air-to-surface missiles is the Corvus, 
designed for use on carrier-based aircraft. Its current status is un- 
known ; however, it is known that the missile's aerodynamic character- 
istics have been evaluated through wind-tunnel tests. 

As far as the Air Force is concerned, they have only one missile in 
the air-to-surface class, the Rascal. The Rascal is approximately 35 



Smithsonian Report. 1958.- Cox and Stoiko 



PLATE 1 




ROCKETRY — COX AND STOIKO 279 

feet long and 4^^ feet in diameter. It is powered by three 6,000-pound- 
thrust engines, has a speed of approximately 1,000 miles per hour and 
a range of 100 miles. There is no additional information available on 
its current status. 

There are currently six missiles in the antiaircraft category. They 
are as follows: the Nike Ajax, the Nike Hercules, the Hawk, the 
Terrier, the Tartar, and the Talos. The primary function of the 
gromid-to-air missile is the protection of major cities, vital industries, 
and ships at sea from every type of enemy aircraft carrying modern 
warheads or guided missiles. In addition, this weapons system must 
be capable of stopping multiple threats from several directions and 
altitudes simultaneously and at safe distances consistent with the 
types of warheads employed. 

The best known of our antiaircraft missiles are the Nike Ajax and 
the Nike Hercules. 

The Nike Ajax is approximately 20 feet long and a foot in diameter ; 
speed is 1,500 miles per hour, range 10 to 30 miles, and ceiling about 
50,000 feet. The vehicle is solid rocket boost launched and has a liquid 
rocket sustainer. The Nike Ajax is now in service, being mass pro- 
duced and delivered to antiaircraft batteries in and around major cities 
and vital industrial areas throughout the United States. Each Nike 
battery consists of 12 missile launchers, manned and operated by ap- 
proximately 100 officers and enlisted men. Although the Nike is 
designed to intercept moving and evasive targets and has an excep- 
tional kill potential, it has been the subject of controversy. It has been 
argued that the missile does not offer sufficient down-range protection 
against high-flying modern aircraft carrying nuclear or H-bomb 
warheads. 

The second of the Nike series, the Nike Hercules, has been de- 
veloped as a replacement for the Ajax and has been called the "double" 
Ajax. The Hercules is 27 feet long and 2 feet in diameter. The 
vehicle is solid-boost launched and solid rocket motor sustained; the 
speed is 2,000 to 2,300 miles per hour, and range is reported as three 
times the range of the Ajax, or about 70 miles. The missile is de- 
scribed as being far more maneuverable and deadly than the Ajax 
because of its atomic warhead. The Hercules is currently in the final 
stages of development and initial stages of production. Eeplacement 
of the Ajax by the Hercules should begin in the spring of 1958. 

The Army's Hawk was designed to supplement the Nike, i.e., fill 
the gap between zero altitude and minimum Nike altitude capability. 
The Hawk is 16 feet 4 inches long, and 14 inches in diameter. It is 
propelled by a solid rocket motor. The speed has been described as 
being highly supersonic with a range of 50 miles. The missile is in 
the final stages of development, and, when it is made available, it 

492520—59 19 



280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

most likely will first see service iii the New York City and the Wash- 
ington-Baltimore areas. 

The Terrier, a Navy missile, is in operational use on the cruisers 
U.S.S. Boston, U.S.S. Canberra, and the destroyer U.S.S. Gyatt. The 
missile is 27 feet long and a foot in diameter; speed is 1,500 miles per 
hour, range about 20 miles, and ceiling 60,000 feet. The missile is 
boost lamiched and sustained by a solid rocket motor. By 1961, 
Terrier I is expected to be operational on approximately 22 capital 
ships. Terrier II, currently under development, is reported to be 
twice the size of the Terrier I. 

The Tartar, another Navy missile from this category, is a sub- 
stantially more efficient single-stage vehicle that is expected to replace 
Terrier I by 1961. The missile, currently in the early production 
phases, will be used as secondary batteries on large ships or de- 
stroyers, and on other small vessels. 

At the present time the arsenal of short-range, surface-to-surface 
tactical missiles consists of four members : Honest John, Little Jolm, 
Dart, and LaCrosse. The function of these short-range, surface-to- 
surface missiles is twofold. First, it must provide the infantryman 
with an effective weapons system for defending himself against all 
immediate fixed and mobile units; and, second, it must have the 
capability of reaching behind the immediate contact area to destroy 
selected targets. 

Probably the best known of this family is the Honest John. The 
Honest Jolm is 27 feet long and 2.5 feet in diameter. The range 
of this weapon has been quoted as 20 to 30 miles. The vehicle is 
powered by a solid rocket motor and is an unguided, free-flight 
artillery rocket capable of delivering nuclear warheads. It is cur- 
rently assigned to the Army's new pentomic divisions. The first tac- 
tical unit armed with this rocket was the 101st Airborne Division. 

The Little John is, as the name implies, a smaller solid rocket motor 
missile with a shorter range. It was designed to supplement the 
Honest John and provide all-weather artillery support. 

The Dart is one of the newest missiles that has been developed. It 
is 5 feet long, 8 inches in diameter, and has a 3-foot wing span. Speed 
is over 600 miles per hour. The range is unknown, although in one 
public demonstration the missile hit the target at a range of 2,100 
yards. The Dart is powered by a smgle-stage smokeless solid rocket 
motor and is wire guided. Since its range exceeds that of any known 
tank armament, it can be tired safely from a fixed or mobile position. 
The missile is in production but is not yet operational. 

The LaCrosse is a solid rocket motor propelled, all-weather, ground- 
support missile developed for the Army and the Marine Corps. It is 
20 feet long, 20.5 inches in diameter, and has a range of 15 to 20 
miles. The missile is truck mounted and extremely mobile. It is 
currently in production. 



ROCKETRY — COX AND STOIKO 281 

With these four new missiles — Honest John, Little John, Dart, 
and LaCrosse — supplementing weapons in this category that have 
been battle proved in the last two wars, the American infantryman 
is assured of the close support required. 

In the medium-range, surface-to-surface category (enemy ground 
targets up to 500 miles), there are the Corporal (the most popularly 
known of this group), the Sergeant, and the Jupiter A (Redstone) 
missiles. 

The Corporal is approximately 45 feet long and 2.5 feet in diameter. 
It weighs about 5 tons fully fueled, and the range is about 150 miles. 
This vehicle is one of the Nation's first guided missiles. It is radio 
guided, flies a ballistic trajectory after cutoff, and can carry an 
atomic warhead. The missile is currently in large-scale production 
and in full use by the Armed Forces. 

The Sergeant missile, an outgrowth of the Hermes RVA-10, is a 
late addition to the Army's tactical missile family. It is more than 22 
feet long and 3 feet in diameter. With a launch weight of 25,000 to 
35,000 pounds including the payload, the range of this missile is 
estimated at 50 to 70 miles. Thrust is estimated at 50,000 to 75,000 
pounds. The propulsion system is said to be one of the largest solid- 
propellant motors in development. When this vehicle becomes oper- 
ational, it may replace the Corporal. 

The last vehicle in this series is the Jupiter A, more commonly 
known as Redstone. It is 69 feet long and 6 feet in diameter. The 
range of the vehicle is given as 200 to 250 miles. The Jupiter A 
resembles the V-2 in many respects and is described as the test bed 
for the Jupiter C, in addition to its tactical function. The vehicle is 
powered by a 75,000-pound-thrust, liquid-propellant engine. This 
particular powerplant, although not as efficient as the more modern 
engines, is nevertheless one of the more reliable. It is expected that 
the Jupiter A will become operational shortly. When it does, the 
utilization of this weapon will extend the Army's striking capability 
well beyond the Army group zone of action. 

As of January 1, 1958, the United States had under development 
five long-range ballistic missiles. Basically they are of two types: 
the shorter-range 1,500-mile intermediate-range ballistic missile 
(IRBM) ; and the extreme-range 500- to 5,500-mile intercontinental 
ballistic missile (ICBM). Of the five missiles under development, 
three are in the shorter intermediate range, and the other two are in 
the intercontinental range. 

In the IRBM class, the Thor is being developed by the Air Force, 
the Jupiter by the Army, and the Polaris by the Navy. 

The Thor, officially designated as the WS-315, is a single-stage 
missile powered by a liquid rocket engine of 135,000-pounds thrust. It 
is claimed that the development of the Thor will serve as a component 



282 AXNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

test bed for the Atlas and Titan ICBM's. The Thor is currently 
undergoing development testing. The first three firings of this mis- 
sile ended in failures ; however, the ultimate success of this weapon is 
not questioned. When it is released for operational use, the Strategic 
Air Command will be responsible for its tactical deployment. 

The Jupiter, like the Thor, is a single-stage, intermediate-range bal- 
listic missile. The similarities do not end here. Both vehicles use 
the same engine, and it has been reported that they may also adapt the 
same airframes. This vehicle is estimated to be 50 to 60 feet in length 
and 8 feet in diameter. The Jupiter IRBM, like the Thor, has known 
test failures. The first two failures of the Jupiter test vehicle were 
attributed to sloshing fuel. The third test vehicle was a success and 
flew its prescribed range of 1,500 miles. The Navy had initially spon- 
sored the development of the Jupiter with the Army, but, because of 
special shipboard problems, the Polaris was substituted for the Jupiter 
by the Navy. 

The Polaris is a two-stage, fleet ballistic missile vehicle capable of 
being launched from surface ships or from underwater by special 
submarines. The propulsion system is a solid rocket motor, said to be 
the largest built to date. The motor is housed within a vehicle ap- 
proximately 40 to 50 feet long and 100 inches in diameter. Kange is 
given as 800 to 1,500 miles, and the warhead is said to be nuclear. 

It is the opinion of the authors that the sublaunch IRBM will 
achieve a role of greater strategic significance in the very near 
future. Furthermore, it is believed that the use of the solid-pro- 
pellant motor for this application will come of age a,nd be accepted 
by all services. (It is interesting to note that there is no evidence 
to date that the Soviets have developed a large solid motor for ex- 
treme-range missiles.) 

The United States Air Force has the prime responsibility for 
developing the ICBM. There are two missiles that are currently 
under development in this category — the Atlas and the Titan. 

The Atlas is approximately 100 feet in length and 12 feet in 
diameter. The vehicle is boosted by two 135,000-pound-thrust, 
liquid-propellant engines and sustained by a single 100,000-pound- 
thrust, liquid-propellant engine. The Atlas is loiown as a "stage- 
and-a-half missile," i.e., "parallel staged," somewhat similar to the 
British wrap-around technique. At launch all three engines are 
utilized. The vehicle takeoff gross weight is over 200,000 pounds. 
Its maximum range is 5,500 miles, apogee (maximum altitude) about 
800 miles, and reentry velocity approximately 15,000 miles per hour. 
The expected accuracy is 20 miles, using celestial guidance. The 
current status or operational date of the missile is not Imown, but it 
is expected to be some time after 1960. The first two firings of this 
vehicle in June and September 1957 ended in misfire. The cause has 



ROCKETRY — COX AND STOIKO 283 

been traced to failure in the propellant feed system. Finally, on 
December 17, 1957, the third Atlas test vehicle was successfully 
lamiclied and guided several hmidred miles downrange to a pre- 
scribed target area. 

The Titan, currently a backup to the Atlas project, is a more 
sophisticated approach to the ICBM design. The Titan is a two- 
stage "tandem" vehicle with an estimated length of over 100 feet 
and diameter of 10 feet. The vehicle weighs more than 200,000 
pounds at takeoff. The propulsion system is believed to have 300,000 
pounds of thrust in the first stage and 60,000 pounds of thrust in 
the second. The missile is currently in the development phase — 
and Air Force officials have said that they are pleased with the 
progress. 

The missile arsenal would be incomplete without mention of the 
surface-to-surface, air-breathing, pilotless aircraft missiles. 

Currently, there are four surface-to-surface pilotless aircraft. 
There are the Navy's Triton and Regulus II and the Air Force's 
Snark and Matador. The propulsion for these vehicles is either 
turbojet or ramjet, and the ranges vary from the Matador's me- 
dium range of 600 miles to the Triton and Eegulus with a range 
from 1,000 to 1,500 miles. The Snark can claim a range of over 
5,000 miles. All vehicles are capable of carrying nuclear warheads. 
The prime difference between these vehicles is that the Navy veliicles 
are launched from submarines whereas the Air Force vehicles are 
launched conventionally. 

The antiaircraft, air-breathing missiles are the well-known Navy 
Talos and the Air Force Bomarc. As is characteristic with all air- 
breathing engines, there are operational limits in both speed and 
altitude. 

The Air Force's Bomarc, because of its long-range capabilities, is 
known as an "area" antiaircraft defense missile, as opposed to the 
Army's Nike "point defense" missile. The Bomarc is almost 47 feet 
long and 3 feet in diameter. Speeds and altitudes have not been offi- 
cially released; however, some of the earlier test vehicles achieved 
velocities of over 1,500 miles and altitudes of over 60,000 feet. The 
range is given as 200 to 300 miles. The vehicle is boosted by a liquid 
rocket and sustained by two ramjet engines. The range of the missile 
is greater than the other missiles of this category. On May 16, 1957, 
the Bomarc was awarded an initial production contract. It is ex- 
pected that as soon as the Bomarc becomes available in quantity, it 
will be operated by the Air Defense Command in the more strategic 
areas. 

We have summarized the state of missile development today among 
nations. It must be noted that we have only touched on the highlights 



284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

and that most nations have missiles other than those mentioned, either 
developed or being developed, including rocket-powered aircraft. 

CRITERIA TO GAGE A NATION'S MISSILE POTENTIAL 

A look at the missile arsenal in any nation is only one factor in the 
evaluation of its missile potential. In addition to missile hardware, a 
comprehensive evaluation should include the following equally perti- 
nent factors : 

1. A nation's potential in the missile field should be measured by the 
current caliber of its leaders and numbers of scientists, engineers, and 
trained technicians, as well as by the capability of its educational 
institutions to train and maintain the balance of technical and 
nonteclinical personnel required for the future. 

2. A nation's potential in the missile field should also be measured 
by its natural resources, by the numbers of its supporting industries, 
and by the quality of its basic research and test facilities. 

8. And furthermore, a nation's potential in the missile field should 
be measured by the availability of operational missiles in any one of 
the four basic military categories which fulfill that nation's specific 
strategic requirements. 

EIGHT AXIOMS ON MISSILERY 
In addition to the above criteria for gaging a nation's missile po- 
tential, we offer the following eight axioms on missilery as a means 
for a realistic assessment of rocketry today : 

1. The statement "behind in the missile race" without qualifications 
is meaningless. 

2. If leads in certain missile categories do exist, it is primarily 
because of a concentrated effort in that area. 

3. Rocketry is a matter of emphasis — not just on funding but 
also on direction. 

4. The know-how of building missiles and rockets is not one 
nation's secret, nor is this know-how limited to a select few or- 
ganizations or scientists. The physics of rocketry is well under- 
stood by many both here and abroad. 

5. At present it appears that no nation has made a major 
missile technological breakthrough. This is especially true from 
an aerodynamic and propulsion viewpoint. 

6. The probability of a successful missile lamiching applies 
"equally" to all nations. 

7. The citizens of the United States and the leaders they have 
elected over at least the last 15 years are responsible for the Nation's 
current position in rocketry. 

8. An informed people will insure that American democracy wiU 
courageously and successfully meet the challenge of the coming 
Space Age. 



Fresh Water for Arid Lands' 



By David S. Jenkins 

Director, Office of Saline Water 
United States Department of the Interior 



[With 5 plates] 

From a status of barely cfisual interest, the increasing demand for 
fresh water and the associated search for supplementary sources have 
almost overnight come to preoccupy public interest and technical 
thinking everywhere. Population growth, coupled with a startling 
increase in unit water consumption, has imposed severe demands on 
water resources [1] ^, to the extent that even the most amply provided 
parts of the world have begun to feel alarm. Figure 1 shows the rise 
in water use in the United States since 1900. Elsewhere similar in- 
creases have occurred. There are indeed grounds for alarm, in view 
of our investment in water-resource projects and our dependence on 
them. For many years a considerable part of our construction ex- 
penditures has been devoted to building the project works, and simul- 
taneously questions of ownership and control of fresh-water sources 
have given rise to regional and international contentions. Even in 
many nonarid lands, our natural water supplies draw nearer to exhaus- 
tion and we look hopefully toward the possibilities of going to the 
oceans and to the brackish waters [2] about us for new supplies of 
fresh water. 

But in the arid regions, water is as gold. Men have long dreamed 
of finding living space for additional people in the great areas of 
desert and semiarid land in which the world abounds. But so long 
as water cannot be obtained except at remote locations and in small 
we shall be able to bring fresh water to them at low cost, they promise 
quantities, the lands outside of these oases must remain barren. When 
to become the productive base for a new growth of human activities. 

The purpose of this symposium is to appraise this problem and to 
pool our knowledge of its difficulties and prospects. The following 
general sketch of saline water conversion and its application to the 
needs of arid lands is necessarily based on the work with which I am 



^ General paper on saline water conTCrslon, for the UNESCO Symposium on Salinity 
Problems In Arid Lands, Tehran, Iran, Oct. 11-18, 1958, and published by permission of 
UNESCO. 

■ Numbers in brackets indicate references at end of text. 

285 



286 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 



most familiar. That is the work carried on during the past 5 years 
by the United States of America, and that initiated by the Organiza- 
tion for European Economic Cooperation. From this work we know 
that low-cost sea-water conversion is not yet here, but we also believe 
that in time it will be at hand. Our hope for the future is that today's 
community of interest and strength of cooperation will continue, 
showing the way to final solution of the problem. 

Before entering upon specific discussion of the arid-lands problem, 
I wish to review the course of the research work into saline-water con- 
version that is being conducted under the Office of Saline Water of the 
United States Department of the Interior [3], and elsewhere, and 
mention some processes that have been studied. 



250 




IRRIGATION (At Dispersion Pont) 

• f 

I 1 1 

J .^ f L 



1900 1920 1940 1980 

Fig. 1. — Growth of water use in the United States, since 1900. (After Picton.) 

For many years scientists and technicians had been at work investi- 
gating the possibilities of more efficient saline-water conversion than 
could be accomplished by the time-honored distillation process. Note- 
worthy stimulus was given to such eif orts by the United States Govern- 
ment in 1952, when it established in the Department of the Interior a 
program to encourage private scientifiic interest and activity in de- 
salting, together with a limited fund to support conversion research 
and development work by its citizens. Three years later this authority 
was enlarged, and provision was added for devoting part of the fund 
to the support of process research in other nations. 

The act [4] proved to be a powerful scientific and technical stimu- 
lus. One of its effects was to reinforce technical activity abroad as 



FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS — JENXINS 287 

well as at home, bringing about a valuable international exchange of 
information on saline-water conversion. The strength of tliis mutual 
interest became apparent in the Washington Symposium [5] on the 
subject held in November 1957, and is evidenced again by the present 
gathering. 

The Washington Symposium confirmed that although we may im- 
prove present distillation processes, much exploratory research is 
needed to develop wholly new approaches to desalting. It is my 
firm conviction that nature has locked away from us temporarily 
one of her most fascinating secrets. From principles of physical 
chemistry and thermodynamics we know that theoretically we should 
be able to get fresh water from the ocean for an over- all cost of about 
10 cents a thousand gallons with reasonable allowances for inefficien- 
cies. Already science has succeeded in reducing the cost to about 
10 times that amount, with considerable promise of further reduc- 
tion to about 5 times or 50 cents. This will make it possible to supply 
water for a number of special new uses, particularly in areas of 
low-cost labor and materials. But to unlock this secret of nature 
so as to serve general irrigation uses will take a scientific development 
comparable to that which uncovered nuclear fission and fusion. Its 
accomplishment may well rival nuclear energy in its effect upon the 
world economy. 

How best can we solve this problem ? Not knowing which approach 
may turn out ultimately to be the best, we must pursue all possible 
and logical leads. Many new approaches should be investigated, 
and effort should be devoted to such fundamental studies as the mech- 
anisms by which salt-water phreatophytes select nitrate and phos- 
phate ions but reject sodium and chloride, as well as to the functions 
of the kidneys in maintaining salt balance in the human, animal, or 
fish systems. Fortunately, some research is being directed to ap- 
proaches of this type. 

In order to separate water from a salt-water solution, we must 
expend energy [6]. The minimum theoretical thermodynamic energy 
needed to separate water molecules from salt ions can be calculated 
from the experiment shown in figure 2. At the same temperature and 
pressure, more water molecules will change into the vapor phase 
from the fresh water (left) than from the salt water (center). By 
compressing the vapor above the salt water to the same pressure as 
that above the fresh water, it can be made to condense to fresh water 
(right) . The energy required is just equal to the energy that binds 
the water molecules to salt ions. For sea water this minimum re- 
quirement is 2.8 kilowatt-hours per 1,000 U.S. gallons. Inventors' 
claims involving energy requirements less than this minimum are 
bound to be false. 



288 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 196 8 



The actual energy needed to evaporate fresh water from salt water 
is necessarily much greater than this theoretical requirement, which 
assumes a barely perceptible rate of separation and complete effi- 
ciency in conversion of energy. Murphy [7] has estimated that this 
minimum energy requirement for a practical process may be about 
four times the theoretical, or about 12 kilowatt-hours per thousand 
gallons. Simple distillation, for example, requires 1,000 times as 
much energy, but already distillation systems of today require energy 
expenditures of only about 200 kilowatt -hours per thousand gallons. 



^RESHF>5SfiftTSW 



'^:^M^z^^^M^M 



t-VT-r-r-n-r- 




TV 






Fig. 2. — Theoretical energy needed to separate water molecules from salt ions. 

Distillation, known and practiced for long ages, remains to date 
the most advanced (and almost the only) method of applying this 
energy to the work of salt-water separation. While simple in basic 
principle, it is complex and costly in application, and involves the 
use of large and expensive equipm.ent. To discover other methods, 
the Office of Saline Water upon its establishment undertook an ex- 
tensive survey [8] of scientific and technical knowledge. Included 
were various physical, chemical, and electrical actions, as well as 
several modifications of the conventional distillation process designed 
to increase the productivity and reduce the size and cost of the neces- 
sary equipment. 

Some 30 potential conversion processes and pertinent phenomena 
were originally listed from this survey, but they were soon narrowed 
down to 16, which in turn were ultimately reduced to 5 groups of 
processes, namely : (1) thermal and mechanical distillation ; (2) solar 
distillation; (3) membrane processes; (4) freezing; and (5) others, 
the latter including such processes and phenomena as ion exchange, 
solvent extraction, and biological action. 

To date these studies [9], as well as parallel researches abroad, 
have shown that several processes other than distillation are tech- 
nically feasible on a laboratory scale; only one has reached actual 
commercial use, however. This is the recently developed process of 
electrodialysis, in which the ions composing the salt are forced out 
of the saline water through pairs of positive and negative ion-selective 
membranes by the force of an electric current. One other process — 



FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS — JENKINS 289 

separation of water from salt by freezing — is approaching the point 
of commercial possibility, but it still requires much further develop- 
ment. And, as part of the distillation group, small low-temperature 
stills using the heat of the sun have been extensively developed ex- 
perimentally on a small-scale basis in the United States and else- 
where, particularly in several Mediterranean countries and Australia. 

THERMAL AND MECHANICAL DISTILLATION 

Improvement of conventional distillation processes, both to reduce 
their high investment cost by increasing the rate of heat transfer and 
to reduce the energy cost by diminishing the heat losses, engaged ex- 
tensive study from the first. The earliest projects of the Office of 
Saline Water included studies of very large vapor-compression systems 
[10] and the possibility of reducing their costs, as well as large-scale 
multiple-effect evaporation systems separately and in combination with 
power-generation cycles. 

Although there are several different types of distillation equip- 
ments and cycles [11], all are presently subject to the same general 
limitations — scale deposition and corrosion. Scale- forming constitu- 
ents, principally calcium carbonate, calcium sulphate, and magnesium 
hydroxide, are precipitated out of solution as evaporator tempera- 
tures rise above 160° F. The scale fouls heat transfer surfaces 
and impedes fluid circulation. In addition, brines become more cor- 
rosive, necessitating use of expensive alloy as temperatures approach 
or exceed the normal boiling point of water, 212° F. 

Therefore, a series of research and development studies has been 
in progress in the fields of heat transfer, scale prevention, and less 
expensive corrosion-resistant materials of construction. Some of these 
studies are sponsored by the Office of Saline Water and other Govern- 
ment agencies, while others are carried out by independent manufac- 
turers in the United States and elsewhere and by agencies of other 
governments, such as the British Admiralty. In most instances, each 
of the principal investigations, which are described below, are directed 
toward a particular evaporator type. However, much of the knowl- 
edge and techniques gained from one series of experiments, where 
successful, will be adaptable to the general distillation field. 

Formation of scale deposits in the equipment is a serious problem 
in practically all distillation processes, and under certain conditions 
in electrodialysis. A fundamental investigation of the basic factors 
affecting scale deposition is being conducted at the University of 
Michigan. 

An attractive distillation process using long-tube vertical evapora- 
tors of the kind employed in the salt industry has been proposed 
by W. L. Badger of Ann Arbor, Mich. [12]. In this cycle sea water 



290 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 



is passed through a series of evaporators under reduced pressure and 
temperature, utilizing either heat applied directly from a steam gen- 
erator or that recovered from the exhaust of a steam turbine in con- 
nection with electric power generators [13]. (Fig. 3.) The efficiency 
and economy of the process require completely scale-free operation 
which we believe can be acliieved through pH control and/or internal 
sludge-stabilization teclmiques. In addition, Badger proposed the 
use of low-cost (ferrous) metals throughout the plant. In order to 
bring these theories into practice, a pilot plant has been erected at a 
seashore location in North Carolina for testing scale prevention, metals 
corrosion, heat transfer rates, and other variables for the long-tube 
vertical-evaporator distillation process (pi. 1, fig. 1). Badger esti- 
mates the total cost of water from a large plant at about 40 cents per 
thousand gallons. 




Fig. 3. — Flow sheet of multistage, long-tube vertical distillation plant. (Layout is after 

cycle of W. L. Badger.) 

Improved evaporators in which greatly increased rates of heat trans- 
fer are achieved give promise of reducing capital as well as operating 
costs. In one such development [14], the heat transfer coefficient is 
increased to 2,000-3,500 B.t.u. per hour per square foot per °F., as 
compared to 500 or less in conventional equipment. In this process, 
invented by Dr. Kenneth C. D. Hickman of Kochester, N.Y., the heat- 
transfer area is in the shape of conical surfaces and is rotated, thereby 
causing the feed water to spread over the surface in thin films, under 
centrifugal force. Several experimental models have been built, from 
household sizes (300 g.p.d.) to much larger plants (25,000 g.p.d.) 
(pi. 1, fig. 1), and are being tested on brackish water as well as sea 
water. 

Another heat-transfer system is under development by Drs. B. F. 
Dodge and A. M. Eshaya of Yale University, New Haven, Conn. 
Tests were run on laboratory equipment at the University [16] which 
demonstrated that heat transfer coefficients of 2,000 B.t.u. per hour per 



FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS — JENXINS 291 

square foot per °F. could be maintained in a system utilizing forced 
circulation and drop-wise condensation in vapor-compression distilla- 
tion processes. Similar and complementary research was conducted 
by the British Admiralty [17] under the program of the Organiza- 
tion for European Economic Cooperation (OEEC.) Several pri- 
vate organizations in the United States and Europe are experiment- 
ing with drop-wise promoters for various types of heat exchanger 
surfaces. 

The flash type of distillation process is now receiving increasing 
commercial application. In this process, warm salt water enters an 
evaporation chamber in which the pressure has been reduced below 
the boiling point of the salt water, thereby inducing a portion of 
liquid to vaporize (flash) into steam. As with most of the present 
types of commercial evaporation equipments, the flash units have been 
primarily developed for marine use. However, Westinghouse Corp. 
of Pittsburgh, Pa., completed one of the largest distillation plants in 
the world at Kuwait (pi. 1, fig. 2), making use of the multistage flash 
process. That installation consists of four 4-stage flash evaporators 
with a total capacity of 21^ m.g.p.d. Other companies are also offer- 
ing multistage flash evaporators, and other land installations are 
presently being considered for this type of equipment. The Office of 
Saline Water is developing improved multistage flash distillers for 
potential combinations with nuclear-process [18] steam reactors, as 
tliis type of evaporator will make use of very large amounts of steam 
in civilian-type applications. 

There are also locations where waste heat is currently available or 
where ocean temperature differences are sufficient to induce flash evap- 
oration [19]. Therefore, low-temperature flash evaporation was 
recently studied by Griscom-Russell Co. [20] for Massillon, Ohio, 
for the Office of Saline Water, as adapted to a single-stage flash 
evaporator using the energy of a stream of warm waste water from 
a power station of an industrial plant, or from natural sources. Esti- 
mates showed that, given a temperature difference of 30° F. between 
the warm and the cold water, plants of 100,000 and 10,000,000 gallons 
output capacity would produce fresh water from sea water at over-all 
costs of $1.28 and $0.71 per 1,000 gallons respectively, using the 
Office of Saline Water standardized cost estimating procedure [21] 
as modified for this process. 

SOLAR DISTILLATION 

Distillation by means of solar heat has the advantage of eliminating 
the cost of the fuel energy otherwise required. However, the diffuse 
nature of solar energy makes necessary the use of large areas for 
collection. The major problem in solar distillation is reduction of 



292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 196 8 

equipment costs. Research on solar stills having that and increasing 
efficiencies as objectives has been carried out by the Office of Saline 
Water [22, 23]. Both glass and plastic membranes have found ap- 
plication as transparent covers for solar stills, and equipment costs 
are being reduced. 

A number of typical American still designs, some intended for re- 
search use only, are shown in plate 2 and plate 3, figure 1. They 
include stills of suspended-envelope type, canopy type, and flat tilted 
type. Their output was found to be, rather uniformly, about 1 pound 
of fresh water per square foot per average day of sunshine in a mod- 
erately warm climate. 

Small solar stills have had extensive practical development in 
Algeria and Morocco [24] and Australia [25]. Manufacture of stills 
with effective surface of 10 to 12 square feet is reported for one 
maker in Algeria, while another has developed a much larger still, 
to be made up of jointed units 10 by 40 feet each. 

A design for a deep-basin still with an area of 5,000 square feet, 
to be built directly on the ground, was prepared in 1957 by George 
O. G. Lof of Denver, Colo. (pi. 3, fig. 2) . 

The Office of Saline Water has initiated a comprehensive develop- 
ment program on solar stills through contract with Battelle Memorial 
Institute of Columbus, Ohio. Prototypes of various existing and im- 
proved designs are being installed for further development at a cen- 
tral seashore test station near Port Ora,nge, Fla. The first small pilot 
plant of the Lof deep-basin still is now being constructed there. The 
next two prototjq^es to be built will be of plastic films in place of the 
glass. The new plastic has been developed by the Du Pont Co. of 
Wilmington, Del. One will be baised on the design shown in plate 2, 
figure 2, using an air-supported transparent cover, and will also have 
an area of about 2,500 square feet. Low-cost preformed concrete 
basas under development are expected to reduce costs further and 
greatly simplify field construction. The second Du Pont type of 
about 500 square feet was originally designed to utilize a wire sup- 
port for the plastics cover (pi. 4, fig. 1). However, within the last 
few weeks Du Pont has prepared a folded or pleated film which 
promises to remove the need for the wire support and further reduce 
costs. Others to be installed and tested at the Port Orange research 
center are the suspended envelope developed by Bjorksten Labora- 
tories of Madison, Wis., and the tilted stills developed by Maria 
Telkes of JSTew York University, both under the direction of the Office 
of Saline Water. 

A need exists for two major types of solar-distillation equipment: 
small stills, some of which m.ay be portable ; and large-capacity stills. 
The small stills should have production capacities that range from 



FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS — JENKINS 293 

about 20 gallons to several hundred gallons per day of fresh water. 
The large stills would cover many acres. They would be most useful 
where other conversion methods are more costly or impracticable and 
where solar intensities are high and land costs low. Both types have 
attractive possibilities for areas where the stills can be constructed 
with local materials and labor. Much developmental work is neces- 
sary to reduce the unit cost on a per-square-foot basis. 

It is anticipated that the solar distillation center in Florida will 
result in engineering designs and specifications for practical small 
units and will point the way for future solar distillation plants of 
much larger capacity. 

MEMBRANE PROCESSES 

Desalinization processes utilizing membranes have been developed 
during the past few yeai-s to the point where several are known to be 
technically feasible and one appears to be economically feasible for 
the treatment of brackish waters under certain conditions [26] . 

Specifically, the membrane processes showing promise for the puri- 
fication of brackish waters consist of (1) electrodialysis where an 
electromotive force is applied to a cell consisting of ion-selective 
membranes; (2) "osmionic" where the concentration gradient be- 
tween the solutions supplies the potential to drive ions through 
ion-selective membranes; and (3) reverse osmosis where sufficient 
pressure is applied to the solution to force water through an ion- 
restraining membrane into the fresh- water side. The practicality of 
using biological membranes through the use of algae is now being 
investigated by the Office of Saline Water [27]. 

One of the limiting factors in the use of these processes has been 
the membranes themselves. Consequently, during the past few years 
considerable research has been conducted by organizations in several 
countries aimed at improving the characteristics of those membranes. 
As a result, greatly improved ion-selective membranes have been de- 
veloped. Such membranes are now available commercially at a cost 
per unit area of approximately one-fifth of what it was formerly. 

If the cost of membranes and equipment can be further reduced, 
some authorities believe that the use of ion-selective membranes for 
the demineralization of sea water might become economically feasible. 

Electrodialysis. — An electrodialysis cell consists of alternate cation 
and anion permeable membranes (pi. 4, fig. 2). Upon the applica- 
tion of an electromotive force the positive ions, such as sodium, pass 
through the cation permeable membranes, whereas the negative ions, 
such as cliloride, move in the opposite direction and pass through the 
anion permeable membranes. Thus, the water passing between alter- 
nate membrane pairs is depleted of salt, while that passing through 
the intervening pairs is enriched. 



294 AisnsrTJAL report Smithsonian institution, 1958 

Electrodialysis as a conversion process has developed rapidly from 
a laboratory phase to commercial operating units in about 6 yeai-s. 
Developments have been carried out in the Netherlands [28], Great 
Britain [29], South Africa [30], and the United States [31], and 
more recently in Japan, Soviet Eussia [32], and Israel. 

One of the most advanced processes is that of Ionics, Inc., of 
Cambridge, Mass., developed partly through the Office of Saline 
Water. That process utilizes strong membranes having considerable 
durability, and a long tortuous flow path. FoUowmg laboratory tests 
that had liigUy favorable results, the process was incorporated in 
pilot tests [33]. The equipment, which was mounted in a trailer 
truck (pi. 4, fig. 2), was operated for some months on two naturally 
occurring saline waters in Arizona and South Dakota having salini- 
ties of 4,000 p.p.m. and 2,000 p.p.m. respectively. Operating difficul- 
ties such as fouling by scale were corrected by acid feed, and the 
process was in each location successfully carried to a residual 350 
p.p.m. concentration. High cost of equipment and membranes at 
present quoted prices accomits for about 80 percent of the cost of the 
water. With future increased production, these costs should be 
reduced. 

More than 20 Ionics., Inc., production plants are in use having 
capacities ranging from 500 gallons per day upward, with the largest 
plant of 86,400 gallons per day in the Middle East at Bahrein. The 
other well-advanced process is that of the Netherlands, TNO, also used 
in modified form in South Africa, in which thinner, less durable, but 
less expensive membranes are used in a continuous sheet-flow process. 
The one South African plant is reported to have a capacity of 
2,400,000 imperial gallons per day. 

The Office of Saline Water is conducting membrane evaluation 
and improved cell development at the laboratories of the Bureau of 
Eeclamation in Denver, Colo. Membranes being tested are from 
American as well as other manufacturers. The electrodialysis units 
are from Ionics, Inc., and the Netherlands, TNO. The Texas Electric 
Service Co. of Fort Worth is developing improvements in the Ionics 
process. 

Osmionic. — The second membrane process mentioned is known as 
osmionic, a term which was coined because of the osmotic and ionic 
forces involved in the process [34] . This is one of the new processes 
developed under the Saline Water Conversion Program of the United 
States and is somewhat similar to electrodialysis, except that it re- 
quires no outside electrical current and no electrodes. The driving 
force is obtained from the difference in concentration between a brine 
and the water to be demineralized. The power supply therefore 
might be obtained from salt deposits, brine wells, or by ponding saline 
water and allowing the sun to concentrate the water. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Jenkins 



Plate 1 




1. Pilot plants of W . L. Badger and Hickman distillation processes at \V rightsville 

Beach, N.C. 



TRIPLE -EFFECT EVAPORATOtS 




2. Sea-water evaporators at Kuwait on the Persian Gulf. VVestinghouse Electric Corp. 

flash evaporators. 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Jenkins 



Plate 2 




1. Bjuiksten suspended envelope solar still. 




2. Du Pont canopy solar still. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Jenkins 



PLATE 3 




1. Telkes's flat tilted solar stil 




2. Lof deep basin solar still (artist's conception) 



Smithsonian Report. 1^58. — Jenliins 



Plate 4 




1. Du Pont plastic wire supported still. 




ELECTRIC 
MEMBRANE 



SALT WATER 



POSITIVE 



VEMBRAK't 







-' 1 






B 


RINE 





2. Flectrodialysis experimental field test unit showing interior of trailer unit on left and 

diagram of process on right. 



Smithsonian Report. 1958.— Jenkins 



Plate 5 




FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS — JENKINS 



295 



In the simplest form of the apparatus, two cation and two anion 
selective membranes form a 3-compartment cell (fig. 4). Each 
chamber initially contains feed water, and the assembly or unit cell is 
immersed in brine. The passage of ions from brine to the less concen- 
trated water in the outer chambers through the appropriate mem- 

LEGEND 
= Cation permselective membrane 



= Anion permselective membrane 



/ = Inert and impervious material 



C-1 



C-2 



A-2 



Fl 




/ 




[\ 




V 




.^ 




/ 


/ 
/ 
/ 
/ 

/ 
/ 
/ 


+ 

Na - 
B 


/ 
/ 


s 


h 

\ 

\ 


- + 

CI Na 

P 

t 


/ 

/ 

1 A 


S 


\ 


CI 
B 


/ 
/ 
/ 
/ 
/ 
/ 


/ 
/ 




Vy1///i//A//, 




/ 
/ 




A ^ f. 




/ 




V 


/ 

L 


V////////////. 


/ 



Fig. 4. — -Schematic cross section of osmionic unit cell. 



branes is necessarily electrostatically coupled with the simultaneous 
transfer of ions from the center to the outer chambers. 

Reverse osmosis. — Osmosis involves the passage of water through 
a membrane from a dilute solution to a more concentrated one [35]. 
If enough pressure is applied to the more concentrated solution (more 
than 350 p.s.i. for sea water) then the osmotic flow can be reversed 
and pure water will be forced through the membrane. Results of 
research sponsored by the Office of Saline Water have demonstrated 

492520— 59 20 



296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

that around 97 percent of the salts of sea water can be removed in one 
pass through a membrane, such as celhilose acetate, but at slow rate. 
Investigation aimed at increasing the durability and flow rate of 
membranes is continuing. 

FREEZING 

Salt-water separation by freezing has been the subject of a number 
of experimental researches [36, 37, 38, 39, 40]. The use of freezing 
has certain inherent advantages such as a lesser tendency toward 
scaling and corrosion because of the low temperatures involved and the 
lower value of the heat of fusion as compared to the heat of vapori- 
zation. There is also the advantage of low-temperature differentials. 
However, the occlusion of brine with ice crystals has been a major 
difficulty in development of a feasible process. 

A promising approach to the utilization of freezing as a means 
of saline-water conversion and elimination of the brine from the 
crystals is a combination of freezing with evaporation being investi- 
gated by the Carrier Corp. of Syracuse, N.Y. Experimental appa- 
ratus and washing techniques have been developed so that now it is 
possible to produce practically salt-free ice from sea water in a 
continuous manner. 

Figure 5 illustrates a version of the process. Cliilled saline water 
is admitted to a chamber under high vacuum. In this low pressure 
about one-seventh of the water flashes to vapor, further chilling the 
remainder wliich freezes to an ice-brine slurry. The slurry flows 
through a separation colunm for counter-current washing. The vapor 
formed in the freezing operation is compressed and condenses on the 
ice. The melted ice becomes the fresh-water product. Part of the 
product is used for washing the ice. 

The experimental program on this process utilizing a small shop- 
size pilot plant has not disclosed any technical problems that could 
not be solved or that would render the process impracticable. Opera- 
tion of the equipment is continuing and preliminary designs of a 
larger pilot plant of about 15,000 gallons daily capacity are being 
made. The next step is construction of that pilot plant incorporating 
all components of the complete process. 

In another approach to the use of freezing for demineralizing saline 
water, an immiscible refrigerant such as isobutane is vaporized in 
direct contact with the saline solution. The development of this prin- 
ciple is under way at Cornell University [41], Ithaca, N.Y. Because 
most equipment necessary for this process could be of compara- 
tively simple design, it may be particularly adaptable to large-scale 
installations. 

Some rather basic research has been conducted in an attempt to 
adapt the zone refining technique to convert saline water. A frozen 



FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS — JENKINS 



297 



zone is passed along a column of salt water to concentrate the salt 
impurities at one end. This has been done and fresh water actually 
obtained but rates of production are very low ; it remains to be deter- 
mined if there is a basis for a practical method. 

Research and development on demineralization by freezing ap- 
pear worthy of great emphasis. Its inherent advantages indicate 
that a freezing process when completely developed should be able to 
compete economically with the most promising developments in the 
distillation field. 



COMPRESSOR 



Water 
Vapor 



Compresiad 
Vapor I 



SPRAY 
FREEZER 



' Ice & Brine 25 F 

Sea Water 
from Heat 
Exchanger 
35° F 



REFRIGERATION UNIT 



ICE AND 
SEA WATER 
SEPARATOR 



IN 28 F 



Chilled 
Refrigerant 



Out 35 F 



Fresh Water 
to Heat 
Exchanger) — 



Cold Brine to 
Heat Exchanger 



25° F 



HEAT EXCHANGER 



FREEZE-EVAPORATION PROCESS 

Fig. 5. — Layout of freeze evaporation, by Carrier Corporation. 



OTHER PROCESSES 

Ion exchange. — The phenomenon of ion exchange was investigated 
about 1850 but it is only within the past 20 years that this principle 
has been extensively developed commercially for treating water of 
low salinity and for removal of hardness. 

Salt ions can be removed from saline water by passing the water 
through a mixed bed of ion-exchange material. That material soon 
becomes saturated and must be regenerated by use of relatively 
expensive acids and bases. 

To overcome this excessive cost, a process suggested by Gilliland 
[42] is being developed at the University of California [43], at 
Berkeley, which employes ammonium bicarbonate as a regenerant. 
When saline water is passed through such a bed, it is demineralized 
and the effluent consists of water containing only ammonium bicar- 
bonate. Heating the solution removes the chemical as carbon dioxide 



298 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

and ammonia gases which are collected and used again to regenerate 
the exchange resins in the bed. Thus, the costly chemicals used for 
regeneration are replaced by heat. Solar heat may be applicable. 

More mformation, such as the type of construction materials re- 
quired, durability or life of the exchange resms, etc., is essential 
before precise cost estimates can be made. 

Solvent extraction. — The extraction of water from saline solutions 
by an organic solvent, to be recovered later from the extracted mixture 
of water and solvent by temperature change, has been found suffi- 
ciently promising for further research. One of the best solvents [44] 
so far found is N-ethyl-n-butyl amine, which extracts about 30 per- 
cent water at 30° C. and retains about 13 percent at the separation 
temperature of 75° C. The process is under development at Texas 
A. & M. College, and satisfactory laboratory equipment has now indi- 
cated the need for pilot-plant development which is being initiated. 

Biological action. — Preliminary study of the desalting action of 
biological membranes has very recently led to a research under the 
United States program in which algae are to be grown in a basin of 
sea water to take up salt and later removed to a second basm for 
partial removal of the salt taken up [27]. Pure cultures of several 
hmidred algae have been grown in synthetic sea water and tests are 
starting on determination of salt uptake. 

Use of nuclear energy. — Owing to the high cost of nuclear gener- 
ated electrical energy, it was originally felt that nuclear energy would 
probably not play an early role in saline-water conversion. How- 
ever, in 1967, the Office of Saline Water undertook a study of the 
possible use of low-temperature nuclear heat directly in evaporation 
processes. Following a preliminary investigation carried out by the 
Office of Saline Water [18], the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, 
and the Fluor Corp. of Wnittier, Calif., a design study is now being 
made of two nuclear-heated plants employing improved flash distilla- 
tion, one of 1 million gallons per day, the other of 20 million gallons 
per day. 

Substantial non-Federal research and development in desalting 
has been conducted in the United States by private industrial organi- 
zations. That work consists mainly of practical improvements in 
multiple-effect, flash, and vapor-compression distillation, and devel- 
opment of electrodialysis. The University of California [43] has 
carried out a research and development program in several fields in- 
cluding distillation, solar distillation, ion exchange, osmosis, and 
several exploratory researches. 

Saline-water conversion research and development outside the 
United States in general parallels and supplements that in America. 
In 1952 the OEEC organized Working Party No, 8 to serve as an 



FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS — ^JENKINS 299 

ad hoc committee to plan and initiate a program of international co- 
operative research in saline- water conversion. Working Party No. 8 
completed its work in 1956, having attained its objectives of estab- 
lishing research and development activities in four fields : the United 
Kingdom conducted research in scale prevention and other methods 
of improving distillation equipment; Algeria and Morocco are de- 
veloping ion exchange and solar distillation; and the Netherlands 
developed an electrodialysis process. The Department of the Interior 
cooperated with the working party and assisted in the researches by 
exchanging technical information and by consultation. 

Other research and development outside the United States includes 
that on electrodialysis in the Union of South Africa, Soviet Eussia, 
United Kingdom, Japan, and Israel; distillation in France, Israel, 
England, Sweden, and the Netherlands West Indies; freezing in 
France, Yugoslavia, Israel, and Italy; solar distillation in Spain, 
Australia, Soviet Russia, Italy ; and others. The possible use of wind 
power for desalting is being investigated in Spain and Pakistan. 

COST TRENDS 

Saline-water conversion is complicated not only by process difficul- 
ties, but also by the range of water requirements encountered. Saline 
waters often vary widely in chemical composition, and the converted 
water is subject to various demands of quality. Sea water is fairly 
uniform in composition, with about 35,000 p.p.m. of salts. On the 
other hand brackish inland waters are quite variable in total salts and 
often call for special treatment to reduce or eliminate deleterious com- 
pounds, objectionable for use by plants and animals, or for human con- 
sumption or industrial purposes. Hardness may be a further factor, 
and quantities will vary from small household demineralizers to large 
central plants. Thus, desalting is at times a custom process rather than 
merely routine salt-removal treatment. 

In most instances the consumptive demand will be quite variable, 
and storage will be necessary to permit uniform operation of the con- 
version plant. Raw- water storage may at times be necessary to take 
up fluctuations in supply. Depending on source and use conditions, 
also, distribution from a central plant may be more efficient and 
economical than operation of several plants in the same general region. 
Lift and conveyance of desalted water from the seashore will constitute 
a major cost. 

Such variations in the requirements as to practical application of 
saline- water conversion will obviously affect design and cost planning. 
Process costs alone are therefore likely to be an inadequate guide to the 
total cost of converted water. When supply to a population of some 
size is at issue, moreover, reliability of services becomes a vital require- 



300 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 



ment and likely to influence decisions on choice of process and planning 
of the conversion plant. In view of these and other considerations, the 
U.S. Congress recently authorized the construction of five demon- 
stration plants, two of which shall have a capacity of at least 1 million 
gallons per day. The five plants, to be built at both seashore and in- 
terior sites, will provide invaluable information on the cost and value 
of large-scale saline- water conversion. 

Compared to other developments such as atomic energy, the amount 
of research and practical development effort devoted to saline-water 
conversion has been very small indeed. Nevertheless, considerable 
commercial utilization has been made of the results, as shown on 
pages 92 and 104, Department of the Interior Report on Saline Water 
Conversion for 1957 [3]. 

In the matter of cost of conversion, detailed treatment is being given 
in the paper at this Symposiima by Prof. Everett D. Howe of the 
University of California. In more brief consideration of costs here, 
we are reminded that early in the research program, it was found 
that few engineers or industrial firms used similar factors for com- 
puting costs. Some inventors and others omitted many of the factors 
when estimating costs. 

As a practical matter, therefore, the Office of Saline Water concluded 
that a standard cost-estimating procedure should be developed and 
that has been done. Copies are available from the Office of Saline 
Water, Department of the Interior, Washington 25, D.C. The method 
is flexible enough to be used for any locality by adjustment of the cost 
factors. 

The following table contains estimates of cost per 1,000 gallons by 
various saline-water conversion processes in the United States, with- 
out credits for sale of power or other byproducts. 



Table 1. — Cost 


estimates 


■per 1,000 gallons 








1952iexisting installations 


1957 designed or projected 
installations 


1960-70 anticipated 

(if further research 

is successful) 




Sea water 
35,000 
p.p.m. 


Brackish 

5,000 

p.p.m. 


35,000 
p.p.m. 


5,000 
p.p.m. 


35,000 
p.p.m. 


5,000 
p.p.m. 


Distillation (including solar).. 
Membrane processes. ... 


$2.00-$5.00 
(») 
(») 
(») 


$2.00-$5.00 
(') 
(}) 
(?) 


$1.00-$3.00 
6.00 

(') 
(') 


$1.00-$3.00 
.80 
(') 
(») 


Less 

than— 

$0.50 

1.00 

.50 

.50 


Less 
than— 
$0.50 
.25 


Freezing 


.60 


others... 


.25 







' p.p.m.— parts per million. 
» Not developed. 



FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS — JENKINS 301 

It will be seen that distillation costs show some reduction from those 
reported 6 years ago, and that further reductions are forecast for all 
processes, although their acceptability for large-scale irrigation of 
low- value crops in the United States is not yet predictable. The price 
laid on the water could probably be borne by only high-value crops 
under most favorable circumstances of season and market, and for 
small homestead uses for vegetables and livestock. As processes are 
developed, cost is reduced, and methods are adapted to specific local 
materials and labor, the uses of converted sea and brackish waters are 
expected to increase. 

APPLICATIONS TO ARID LANDS 

Our present interest being directed to the potential arid-land uses 
of saline-water conversion, the following discussion deals with this 
subject more specifically, with application to present conditions and 
probable growth. The special importance of the arid-land areas of 
the Middle East is readily seen in the light of their ancient history and 
their prominence throughout the ages, under conditions very different 
from those of today. 

A primary uncertainty is presented by the wide variations in the 
price and cost levels in various parts of the world. Labor and material 
costs in different regions tend to differ in roughly the same ratio as 
the over-all price levels of the regions. Therefore, adjustments are 
necessary of costs and values, carried over into the applicable labor 
costs and other operating expense when translating costs as computed 
for United States conditions to those elsewhere, such as in the arid 
belt of the Middle East. Where local materials and labor can be used 
in a particular conversion process, cost of the product water for a con- 
version plant would be reduced. But likewise its monetary value there 
would be reduced as well. Water costs estimated for the future would 
then be lessened in the ratio of the probable future price levels of 
the two regions; such value adjustment might lessen anticipated con- 
version costs, possibly to the point of making some developments eco- 
nomically sound in the arid lands of the Middle East that would appear 
uneconomical in the United States of America. For example, it has 
been estimated that the 4-stage flash-distillation plant built at Kuwait 
by the Westinghouse Corp., designed to utilize waste gas at no cost, 
produces fresh water at about 75 cents a thousand gallons, but if 
fuel at United States prices were used in that plant, cost would exceed 
$2. In that case the plant would probably have been designed as a 
9- or 10-stage plant so as to conserve fuel. 

The general pattern of modern development of arid coastal lands 
in the Middle East rests in part on a basis of industrial demand — this 
term being taken to include shipping and other transportation and 



302 A]^mUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

communication requirements. Through the growth of industry and 
agriculture there arises a basic growth and a wider range of activities, 
thereby establishing a much broadened economy and culture. It is to 
the industrial and domestic water supply that converted saline water 
finds its first uses. 

It is generally accepted that water is worth what it can produce. 
However, the benefits that water can produce cannot always be meas- 
ured in terms of money. Although the crop or the manufactured 
product that water creates has a definite local monetary value, the 
indirect benefits in terms of improved living standards and a more 
abundant local and national economy, with resulting welfare and 
contentment of peoples themselves, comprise a wealth that can never 
be measured in dollars, rials, or rubles. 

As far as is known, the use of desalted water for irrigation is prac- 
ticed only to the extent of some subsistence and hydroponic farming. 
However, progress to date certainly justifies limited anticipation of 
some early agricultural uses without rigid equations of cash benefits to 
costs and some looking to the future when economic feasibility may be 
reached. For this purpose a preliminary study was made of irrigable 
areas in Texas and California [45] at various elevations and distances 
from the coast which need additional water and might be served 
directly or by exchange from converted sea water. This was done for 
California on a basin-by-basin basis as shown by plate 5. As one 
example, in basin No. 9 in California it was found that some 150,000 
acre-feet of new converted sea water could be used on irrigable soils 
below 500 feet elevation, after first making full use of all available 
fresh-water supplies in the entire basin. In the lower Eio Grande 
Basin in Texas some 1,650,000 acre-feet could be used on the same basis. 

Similar information on areas bordering the eastern Mediterranean 
which might be reached with converted sea water could be compiled. 
Available topographic data indicate that there are more than 20 
million acres of land at elevations below 200 meters and within 100 
miles of the seacoast in the eastern Mediterranean comitries of Greece, 
Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Israel, and Egypt. Additional extensive 
areas of arable land undoubtedly border sources of brackish waters. 
If use were made also of the valuable information on water deficiencies 
and surpluses of southeast Asia being prepared for this committee 
in the World Climatic Atlas by the Laboratory of Climatology of 
Centerton, N.J., together with available data on arable soils in the 
area, determination could be made of the location and extent of arable 
lands within these vast areas which could become productive with con- 
verted saline waters. It is urged that such studies be undertaken. 

The foregoing has to do with irrigation only, but we should not be 
unmindful that more than three-fourths of the people in the world 



FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS — JENKINS 303 

live at elevations less than 1,500 feet above sea level. Thus, consid- 
erable ultimate municipal and industrial use of converted saline water 
in these areas seems assured. 

Finally, a word as to the future. As I have pointed out, the need 
for substantially new discoveries of phenomena or processes for saline- 
water conversion is not always understood. It is believed possible that 
a considerable amount of further basic research to discover phenomena 
and processes not yet explored will prove justified. There are equal 
possibilities for much additional progress in the development and 
improvement of the specific processes discussed and partly explored to 
date in the quest for low-cost saline-water conversion. These possi- 
bilities as well as those of basic research should be greatly furthered 
by improved coordination of the efforts of the various coimtries con- 
cerned with a view to building on the foundation laid by the 
Washington Symposium and continued by this Symposium. 

REFERENCES 

1. Picton, W. L. Water use in the U.S. 1900-1975. U.S. Dept. Commerce 

Business Service Bull. 136, 1956. 

2. Preliminary survey of the saline water resources of the U.S. U.S. 

Geol. Surv. Water Supply Pap. 1374, 1957. 

3. Saline water conversion report for 1957. U.S. Dept. Interior, January 1958. 

4. Saline Water Act. U.S. Congr. Publ. Law 448, 82d Congr., 2cl Sess., July 

3, 1952. Amended by Publ. Law 111, 84th Congr., 1st Sess., June 29, 1955. 

5. Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci.- 

Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, 1958. 

6. Tribus, Myron. Energy considerations in the preparation of fresh water 

from the sea. Unpublished paper. [January 1949.] 

7. Research on the minimum energy requirements for sea water conversion 

processes. Saline Water Conversion Program Research and Development 
Progress Rep. No. 9. 

8. Chapman, O. L. ; Lineweaver, G. W. ; and Jenkins, D. S. Demineralization of 

saline waters. A compendium of existing and potential separation proc- 
esses, phenomena, and energy sources. U.S. Dept. Interior, October 1952. 

9. Saline Water Conversion Program Research and Development Progress 

Rep. Nos. 1 to 20. Office of Saline Water, U.S. Dept. Interior. 

10. Heinz Engineering Company. Compression distillation with steam turbine 

power. Rep. submitted to U.S. Dept. Interior, March 1955. 

11. Cywin, Allen. Summary of industrial accomplishment and research in 

saline water distillation. Proceedings, Symposium on saline water con- 
version 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 29-34, 1958. 

12. Badger, W. L. Production of potable water from sea water by various 

combinations of thermocompression and multiple-effect evaporation. 
Prepared for U.S. Dept. Interior, Office of Saline Water, 19-55. 

13. Jenkins, D. S. Fresh water from salt. Sci. Amer., vol. 196, No. 3, 

March 1957. 

14. Research on and development of Badger-Hickman centrifugal distillation 

techniques and equipments. Saline Water Conversion Program Research 
and Development Progress Rep. No. 12. 



304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

15. Researcli continuation on Badger-Hickman centrifugal distillation testing 

on Unit No. 4. Saline Water Conversion Program Research and Develop- 
ment Progress Rep. No. 15. 

16. Research on forced-circulation and drop-wise condensation techniques for 

improving heat transfer rates for vapor compression evaporators. Saline 
Water Conversion Program Research and Development Progress Rep. 
No. 8. 

17. Neville-J'ones, David. Research and development in distillation and scale 

prevention in the United Kingdom. Proceedings, Symposium on Saline 
Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, 
pp. 35-43, 1958. 

18. Study of the applicability of combining nuclear reactors with saline water 

distillation processes. Saline Water Conversion Program Research and 
Development Progress Rep. No. 19. 

19. Jenkins, D. S. Developments in saline water conversion. Journ. American 

Water Works Assoc, vol. 49, No. 8, August 1957. 

20. Research on and analysis of single-effect low temperature flash evapora- 

tion process. Saline Water Conversion Program Research and Develop- 
ment Progress Rep. No. 18. 

21. A standardized procedure for estimating costs of saline water conversion. 

U.S. Dept. Interior, March 1956. 

22. Demineralization of saline water with solar energy. Saline Water 

Conversion Program Research and Development Progress Rep. No. 4. 

23. Strobel, J. J. Summary of solar distillation processes. Proceedings, 

Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. 
Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 117-122, 1958. 

24. Gomella, Cyril. Solar distillation developments in the eastern Mediter- 

ranean. Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. 
Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 131-136, 1958. 

25. Wilson, B. W. Solar distillation research and its application in Australia. 

Proceedings, Ss^nposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad. 
Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 123-130, 1958. 

26. Gillam, W. S. Ion-transport and ultrafiltration. Proceedings, Symposium 

on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 
568, pp. 218-223, 1958. 

27. Levin, G. V. Physiological mechanisms of sodium and chloride ion-trans- 

port. Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. 
Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 212-217, 1958. 

28. Wegelin, E. Multi-compartment electrodialysis and its technical develop- 

ment. Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. 
Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 259-264, 1958. 

29. Hookway, H. T. The development of membranes for electrodialytic proc- 

esses. Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. 
Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 259-264, 1958. 

30. Volckman, O. B., and Moyers, W. H. Ion-selective membrane research and 

electrodialysis engineering development in the Union of South Africa. 
Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad. 
Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 283-315, 1958. 

31. Sieveka, B. H. "Summary of developments in electrodialysis equipment. 

Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad. 
Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 255-258, 1958. 

32. Zaitsev, D. V. Demineralization of water. Moscow. 1948. Translated for 

U.S. Department of the Interior, Office of Saline Water, 1958. 



FRESH WATER FOR ARID LANDS — JENKINS 305 

33. Design, construction, field testing, and cost analysis of an experimental 

electrodialysis demineralizer for brackish waters. Saline Water Conver- 
sion Program Research and Development Progress Rep. No. 11. 

34. The osmionic process. Saline Water Conversion Program Research and 

Development Progress Rep. No. 14. 

35. Water and ion flow through imperfect osmotic membranes. Saline Water 

Conversion Program Research and Development Progress Rep. No. 16. 

36. Woolrich, W. R. Refrigeration method progress in the conversion of saline 

waters. Proceedings, Symposiiun on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. 
Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 319-323, 1958. 

37. Vacino, E., and Visitin, B. Acqua potabile mediante il congenamento dell' 

acqua di mare. Ann. Chim. AppL, vol. 35, pp. 181-222, 1945. 

38. Thompson, T. G., and Nelson, K. H. Desalting sea water by freezing. 

Refrigerating Eng., vol. 62, No. 7, pp. 44-48 and 90, July 1954. 

39. Hendrickson, Harold M. Conventional freezing cycles and economics for 

saline water conversion. Proceedings, Symposium on Saline Water Con- 
version 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 339-376, 1958. 

40. Rose, Arthur. Basic ice crystal separation investigations. Proceedings, 

Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. 
Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 324-332, 1958. 

41. Wiegandt, H. F. Saline water conversion by direct freezing. Proceedings, 

Symposium on Saline Water Conversion 1957. Nat. Acad. Sci.-Nat. Res. 
Counc. Publ. 568, pp. 377-380, 1958. 

42. Gilliland, E. R. Fresh water for the future. Ind. and Eng. Chem., vol. 47, 

No. 12, December 1955. 

43. Howe, E. D. Sea water conversion program. Progress report for the State 

of California Legislature. Univ. California, 1956. 

44. Hood, D. W. Desalination by liquid-liquid extraction. Texas A. & M. 

Research Foundation. U.S. Dept. Interior, Office of Saline Water "Open 
File" Rep., July 1956. 

45. Potential use of converted sea water for irrigation in parts of California and 

Texas. U.S. Dept. Interior, Office of Saline Water, Research and De- 
velopment Progress Rep. No. 3, April 1954. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as 
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 



The Abundance of the Chemical Elements^ 



By Hans E. Suess 

Professor of Geochemistry 

University of California 

La Jolla, Calif. 



[With 4 plates] 

Everybody knows that gold is a very rare element and iron is very 
abundant on the surface of the earth. Elements like magnesium, 
silicon, oxygen, or aluminum represent the major constituents of the 
earth's crust and its rocks, whereas others like gallium, platinum, 
thallium, and uranium are present only in rare minerals or in the form 
of minor impurities. Just how much more abundant one element is 
relative to another is a question dealt with in the field of geochemistry. 

The first attempt to answer this question in a quantitative way was 
made by F. W. Clarke and H. S. Washington during the last decades 
of the 19th century. Numerous rock analyses were compared by these 
authors and an average figure for the occurrence of each element in 
terrestrial rocks was given. In 1889 Clarke said that he attempted to 
represent the relative abundances of the elements obtained in this way 
b}^ a curve, taking their atomic weight for one set of ordinates. He 
had hoped that some sort of periodicity might become evident, but no 
such regularity appeared. During the following 50 years the work of 
geochemists led to an understanding of the distribution of the elements 
between various types of rocks, but it could not yet be explained why 
some elements were more abundant than others. 

Another basic question that could not be answered at the time that 
Clarke and Washington began their studies was whether the earth was 
unique in its chemical composition compared to other heavenly bodies. 
Did other planets, the sun, and the stars have an entirely different 
composition or was the composition of the earth's crust representative 
in a general way of the material of which the universe is composed ? 
Three lines of new scientific evidence enable us now to interpret geo- 
chemical data and answer all these questions in a satisfactory way. 



1 Reprinted by permission from Foote Prints, vol. 29, No. 2, 1957, published bj- Foote 
Mineral Company, Philadelphia, Pa. 

307 



308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

These are : spectral analysis of the sun and stars, chemical analysis of 
meteorites, and the isotopic composition of the elements. 

THE COMPOSITION OF THE SUN AND STARS 

Spectral analysis of the light of stars and distant nebulae is un- 
doubtedly the most direct way to determine the relative abundances 
of the elements in the universe as a whole. The intensity of the absorp- 
tion lines, the so-called Frauenhofer lines, in the spectrum depends on 
the concentration of the atoms causing the absorption. In general it 
is not difficult to identify the element that causes an observed absorp- 
tion line. In order to calculate the correlation of line intensity with 
atomic concentration, a number of physical properties of the absorbing 
atoms and the thermodynamic state of the absorbing stellar matter 
have to be known in detail. 

Unfortunately, the experimental determinations of these properties 
are not yet complete and one has to rely in many cases on theoretical 
calculations which often give only crude approximations. Further- 
more, various other quantities such as optical depth of the layer in 
which the absorption occurs, thermal velocity of the absorbing atoms, 
their macroscopic turbulent motion, and other characteristics have to be 
known before the exact functional dependence of line intensity and 
atomic concentration can be calculated. 

The first abundance data based on special analyses were obtained 
by Miss Payn in 1925 and by Kussel in 1929. Since then the work 
of these authors has been improved and extended by many in- 
vestigators, and it was found that the chemical composition of the 
universe is indeed remarkably uniform, although the most recent 
investigations indicate definite systematic variations in the composi- 
tion of stars, depending on their age and their position in the galaxies. 

The most important result of the astronomical investigations is 
the discovery that hydrogen is by far the most abundant element in 
the universe. Next to hydrogen in abundance is helium. In the sun 
helium constitutes about one-fourth of the atoms. All the other ele- 
ments make up only about 1 percent of the sun's total mass. The 
most prominent of these other elements are carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, 
and neon. Among the metals sodium, magnesium, aluminum, cal- 
cium, and iron are the most abundant ones. 

COMPOSITION OF METEORITES 
Another set of empirical abundance data can be derived from chemi- 
cal analysis of meteorites. It is generally assumed that meteoritic 
matter has undergone less chemical fractionation than any terrestrial 
material fomid on the surface of the earth since the time it was 
formed from solar material. The main type of fractionation recog- 
nizable in meteorites is that of a separation of the elements into three 
chemical phases : a metal phase, a sulfide phase, and a silicate phase. 



ABUNDANCE OF CHEMICAL ELEMENTS — SUESS "309 

Iron meteorites consist of metal and small amounts of sulfide only. 
Other meteorites are composed entirely of silicate. 

A large fraction of meteorites, primarily the so-called chondrites, 
contain all three phases in remarkably constant proportions. It is 
generally believed that the chondrites contain all the condensable, 
nonvolatile components of solar matter in approximately primeval 
proportion. In any case it seems unlikely that chemically similar 
elements were separated from each other when the meteorites formed 
from a gas cloud because of the incompleteness of the separation of 
the three main phases. 

Harold C. Urey compared the mean densities of meteorites with 
those of the terrestrial planets and the moon and concluded that aver- 
age chondrites and the moon probably contain the same ratio of metal 
to silicate, whereas the earth and tlie terrestrial planets contain rela- 
tively more metal. During the formation of the terrestrial planets 
a fraction of the silicate originally present escaped condensation. 
The much lower densities of the outer planets, Jupiter, Saturn, 
Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto, show that these planets have retained 
most of the volatile substances, a large part of the hydrogen and 
helium, the oxygen as water, nitrogen as ammonia, and carbon as 
methane. 

Clearly, chemical analysis of meteorites cannot tell us anything 
about the solar abundances of the rare gases and of elements that 
form such highly volatile compounds. The concentration of many 
other elements in meteorites, however, shows a surprising agreement 
with the results of astronomical data. The relative amounts of ele- 
ments such as sodium, aluminum, silicon, potassium, or calcium are 
found to be the same in the sun and in meteorites within the limits 
of errors of the analytical methods. Some values for heavier ele- 
ments, for example strontium and barium, are also in perfect 
agreement. 

True differences midoubtedly exist in the case of the lightest ele- 
ments, particularly for lithium, beryllium, and boron. The concen- 
trations of these elements on the surface of the sun are much smaller 
than those expected from the data on meteorites. The abundance 
of lithium relative to silicon on the sun is less than one-hundredth 
of that in meteorites. Beryllium and boron may be almost completely 
absent. 

The deficiency of these elements on the sun is now understood as a 
consequence of thermonuclear reactions in the smi's interior. These 
reactions use up these elements as well as the heavy hydrogen isotope, 
deuterium. At the high temperatures of the sun's interior these ele- 
ments react with protons and form either helium or heavier nuclear 
species. The nature of these reactions is now known in detail. It 
is also known that the isotopes of carbon and nitrogen participate 



310 ANISTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

in nuclear reactions which lead to the transmutation of hydrogen into 
helium. The sun and the stars derive their energy from this 
transmutation. 

THE ISOTOPIC COMPOSITION OF THE ELEMENTS 

The nuclei of the atoms are composed of neutrons and protons. 
Nuclei containmg the same number of protons are called isotopes; 
they belong to the same chemical element and in general cannot be 
separated from one another by natural chemical processes. Most 
elements are composed of more than one isotope. The isotopic com- 
position of all the elements is known with great accuracy. 

For most elements, this composition is absolutely constant. It is 
the same in all terrestrial material and in meteorites. Small varia- 
tions have only been observed for light elements as a consequence of 
minute differences in the chemical properties due to the difference in 
mass. Variations also occur if one or more isotopes of an element 
are produced by radioactive decay as in the case of lead. Otherwise 
we have reason to assmne that the isotopic composition of the ele- 
ments is basically a universal quantity valid for our solar system and 
for many stars. 

If one plots the logarithm of the percentage of each isotope in a 
given element against the mass number (the nmnber of neutrons plus 
protons) of the isotope, very peculiar figures are obtained, as shown 
in figure 1, taking several elements as examples. It was impossible 
for a long time to interpret these figures and to explain them in a 
quantitative way. Many scientists have been fascinated by their 
mysterious appearance in the same way that men have been fascinated 
by the mysterious features of the constellations in the night sky for 
the past thousands of years. 

Certain rules have been recognized governing the isotopic com- 
position of the elements, as for example the rule of Harkins which 
states that isotopes with an odd mass number are on the average less 
abundant than their even-mass-numbered neighbors. Another re- 
markable observation can be expressed in the following way: the 
geometry of the figures obtained by plotting the logarithms of the 
isotope abundances of a given element against their mass number, as 
shown in figure 2, is similar for neighboring elements with even 
atomic number. The character of the figures changes in general only 
gradually with atomic number. 

However, in regions where the nuclei contain certain numbers 
of neutrons, an abrupt change occurs. These numbers of neutrons, 
the so-called magic numbers, signify nuclear shell closures. The 
prominent magic numbers are : 8, 20, 28, 50, 82, and 126. The irregu- 
larities that occur beyond barium may be interpreted on this basis, 
since we are dealing with isotopes of a "magic number" of 82. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Suess 



Plate l 




Moonlight view of the 200-inch Hale telescope dome at Palomar. Astronomic observation is 
an important source of data on cosmic abundances of the elements. 



Smithsonian Report, 1938. Sues 



Plate 2 




1. The 200-inch Hale telescope pointing north. 



mi 


■■H 


wn 


^■n 


•ETTrrr 












■■■1 


ilBHi 


MHHMHHttDi 



2. Two spectra (a and b) of the constant-velocity star Arcturus taken about 6 months 
apart clearly show the Doppler shift caused by the earth's orbital velocity of 50 km./sec. 



Smithsonian Report. 1958.^Suess 



Plate 3 



• ''^Wrm, •^M»'^*^i*Ww%^^?1^. 




1. Canon Diabolo meteorite, recovered in 1891 by A. E. Foote. 




2. The Foote deposits at Ivmys XlMnntain, N.C., are rich in litinum ana aisu cciiuain 
substantial quantities of beryllium. In adjacent pegmatites, the heavier elements tin 
and columbium (niobium) also occur. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Suess 




ABUNDANCE OF CHEMICAL ELEMENTS — SUESS 



311 





























v^ 


'V 




















(- 


\ 


r 






















kX 


s, 












s 


















— — i — 







- r^ ¥ 
























■Vj 2 












V 






















■N,--- 




-" J 




















\ 


'( 










2- 












^ 


V ^ 


-- _ 






















— - ~ 


— 


^""~ 


-■^ 






















"9 

r~<. 


























Ji\—.'=- 


















_— 




"" 


_^^ -=r- 














y 


p--" 


H 








s 1 








,^^ 
























\.< 








i^\ 














- 




, . 




" 




1 52 5 
- CHROMIUM - 














~^~-~— 


— 






























" 















o 



s S^ 



•r; O 



O 



492520—59- 



-21 



312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 




Nomiw 1 01 ivn63 uoonis oi mimn adoiosi jo BDNVONnas 



ABUNDANCE OF CHEMICAL ELEMENTS — SUESS 



313 



Furthermore, one can see that nuclear species containing just such a 
number of neutrons are in general exceptionally abundant (fig. 3). 
These facts indicate that the abundance of nuclear species is deter- 
mined by nuclear properties. The individual abundances of nuclear 
species should therefore form a coherent system of some kind; they 




MASS NUMBER 



Fig. 3. — Abundance of nuclei plotted against their mass number. The upper line refers to 
nuclei with even, the lower line to those with odd, mass number. 

should depend in a similar fashion on the number of protons and 
the number of neutrons in a nucleus. 

We know the relative abundance of nuclei containing the same 
number of protons (isotopes) with great precision from mass- 
spectroscopic measurements, and can expect that all the abundances 
of the nuclear species should in some way be connected with these 
data. This indeed can be shown to be the case. 



314 AITOTTAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

It is possible to modify within the limits of the error of the ana- 
lytical data the values for the abundances of the elements in meteorites 
in such a way that the abimdances of the individual nuclear species 
as a function of their mass number form regular smooth lines for 
the odd-mass-numbered isotopes. A similar smooth line is obtained 
with these modified abundance values, if one adds up at each mass 
number the abundance values of even-mass-numbered species with 
the same mass number (isobars). The isotopic composition of ad- 
jacent elements with even atomic number (gi-aphically represented 
as in fig. 2) then fit together like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle (see fig. 3) . 

Careful estimates, weighing the possible errors in the empirical 
abundance data of the elements, were made by H. C Urey and the 
author. They led to an abundance distribution as shown in figure 3 
and in table 1. 

THE ORIGIN OF THE ELEMENTS 

When in 1889 Clarke was looking for regularities in the relative 
abundances of the elements, he expected to find some comiection with 
the periodic table. Spectral analysis of the stars and chemical anal- 
ysis of the meteorites together with determinations of the isotopic 
composition of the elements made it possible more than 40 years later 
to discern certain types of regularities, but these regularities followed 
different laws from those of the atomic structure and had nothing to 
do with the periodic table. An entirely new aspect began to reveal 
itself, promising to lead far deeper into the fundamental fields of 
science than Clarke had expected. 

We have seen that solar abundances of the elements reflect proper- 
ties of the atomic nucleus. The matter surrounding us represents the 
ashes of cosmic nuclear reactions. These reactions took place some 
6 billion years ago at a time before our sun and the planets existed. 
They led to the formation of many radioactive nuclear species which 
subsequently decayed into the stable isotopes of the existing elements. 
Only a few rare radioactive species such as the isotopes of uranium, 
thorium, and potassium 40 are still present today like smoldering 
sparks that survived from the time of the original nuclear fire. 

For many years scientists have tried to explain the mechanism of 
the nuclear reactions that led to the formation of nuclear species 
and their abundance distribution. Our detailed knowledge of nuclear 
abundances serves now as a firm basis for such considerations. Many 
theories have been advanced, none of which could accomit for all 
the empirical facts, even in a crude way. All the past theories had in 
common the assumption that the matter surrounding us was created 
by one and the same nuclear process. The existence of radioactive 
nuclei and their abundance lead to the conclusion that tliis process 
must have taken place some 5 to 7 billion years ago. 



ABUNDANCE OF CHEMICAL ELEMENTS — SUESS 



315 



Table 1. — Abundances of the elements in the primeval gas cloud from which the 
earth and the meteorites formed 

[The number of atoms of each element per million atoms of silicon is given in the table] 



Atomic 


Element 


Atoms 


Atomic 


Element 


Atoms 


No. 






No. 






1 


Hydrogen 


30 billion. 


44 


Ruthenium 


1.49. 


2 


Helium 


4 billion. 


45 


Rhodium 


0.214. 


3 


Lithium 


100. 


46 


Palladium 


0.675. 


4 


Beryllium 


20. 


47 


Silver 


0.26. 


5 


Boron 


24. 


48 


Cadmium 


0.89. 


6 


Carbon 


10 million. 


49 


Indium 


0.11. 


7 


Nitrogen 


3 million. 


50 


Tin 


1.33. 


8 


Oxygen 


30 million. 


51 


Antimony 


0.246. 


9 


Fluorine 


1,600. 


52 


Tellurium 


4.67. 


10 


Neon 


8.6 million. 
43,800. 


53 
54 


Iodine 

Xenon 


0.80. 


11 


Sodium 


4.0. 


12 


Magnesium 


912,000. 


55 


Cesium 


0.456. 


13 


Aluminum 


94,800. 


56 


Barium 


3.66. 


14 


Silicon 


1 million. 


57 


Lanthanum 


2.00. 


15 


Phosphorus 


10,000. 


58 


Cerium 


2.26. 


16 


Sulphur 


375,000. 


59 


Praseodymium. 


0.40. 


17 


Chlorine 


8,850. 


60 


Neodymium... 


1.44. 


18 


Argon 


150,000. 


61 


Promethium... 


0. 


19 


Potassium 


3,160. 


62 


Samarium 


0.664. 


20 


Calcium _ 


49,000. 


63 


Europium 


0.19. 


21 


Scandium 


28. 


64 


Gadolinium 


0.684. 


22 


Titanium 


2,440. 


65 


Terbium 


0.096. 


23 


Vanadium 


220. 


66 


Dysprosium 


0.556. 


24 


Chromium 


7,800. 


67 


Holmium 


0.118. 


25 


Manganese 


6,850. 


68 


Erbium 


0.316. 


26 


Iron 


600,000. 
1,800. 


69 
70 


Thulium 

Ytterbium 


0.032. 


27 


Cobalt 


0.220. 


28 


Nickel 


27.400. 


71 


Lutetium 


0.050. 


29 


Copper 


212. 


72 


Hafnium 


0.438. 


30 


Zinc_ 


486. 
11.4. 


73 

74 


Tantalum 

Tung.sten 


0.065. 


31 


Gallium 


0.49. 


32 


Germanium 


50.5. 


75 


Rhenium 


0.135. 


33 


Arsenic 


4. 


76 


Osmium 


1.00. 


34 


Selenium 


67.6. 


77 


Iridium 


0.821. 


35 


Bromine 


13.4. 


78 


Platinum 


1.625. 


38 


Krypton 

Rubidium 


51.3. 


79 


Gold 


0.145. 


37 


6.5. 


80 


Mercury 


0.017. 


38 


Strontium 


18.9. 


81 


Thallium 


0.1. 


39 


Yttrium 


8.9. 


82 


Lead 


0.5. 


40 


Zirconium 


54.5. 


83 


Bismuth 


0.1. 


41 


Niobium 


1.0. 


90 


Thorium 


0.02. 


42 


Molybdenum. _ 


2.42. 


92 


Uranium 


0.006. 


43 


Technetium.-. 


0. 









The earlier theories of the origin of the elements can be divided 
into two groups: equilibrium theories and nonequilibrium theories. 
In the equilibrium theories it is assmned that the existing abundance 
distribution corresponds approximately to the equilibrium concentra- 
tions of the nuclear species at a certain temperature and pressure at 
which they were "frozen in." This assumption requires a correlation 
of abundances with the total binding energies of the nuclei. Such 
correlation seems indeed to exist, but only within certain relatively 
narrow ranges of mass numbers. The thermodynamic parameters, 



316 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

however, cannot be adjusted in such a way that the over-all abundance 
distribution would correspond to that of a thermodynamic equi- 
librium. It was therefore assumed that equilibrium considerations 
cannot be regarded as a useful way of obtaining reasonable approxi- 
mations. 

In the nonequilibrium theories it is hopefully assumed that a 
relatively simple type of kinetic process has led to the empirical 
abundance distribution. Two such theories have been attracting wide 
interest: the neutron buildup theory, proposed in 1948 by George 
Gamow, and the polyneutron fission theory by Mayer and Teller. 
According to the neutron buildup theory the heavier nuclei were 
formed by the addition of neutrons to very light nuclei and by sub- 
sequent beta decay into stable nuclear species. 

Many features, in particular the smoothness of the abundance lines 
(fig. 3) at higher mass numbers, show conclusively that such processes 
have indeed taken place. However, tliis theory cannot explain the 
abundance of the lighter elements, the excessive abundance of iron, 
and the existence of the light isotopes of many heavier elements. 
Similarly, the polyneutron fission theory predicts certain features 
in the abundance distribution but fails to approximate the over-all 
trend of the abundance data as a function of mass number. The 
theory leads to abundances of the heavy elements which are many 
thousand times too high. 

These and many other attempts have finally convinced scientists that 
it is impossible to explain the abundances of the elements and their 
isotopes as a product of one particular type of nuclear reaction. A 
group of scientists at the California Institute of Technology has found 
a surprisingly simple way out of this dilemma by considering solar 
and planetary matter as a mixture of the product of different types 
of nuclear reactions, in particular such reactions as can plausibly be 
assumed to occur in the interior of stars. 

Occasionally astronomers observe the sudden appearance of a 
bright new star, a so-called nova. The brightest of them, the super- 
novae, occur in our galaxies about once every 500 years. The super- 
novae, however, are bright enough to be observable in distant galaxies 
almost every year. The energy produced in a supernova outburst 
is equivalent to that of a hydrogen bomb of a size several times that 
of the sun. The debris of the stellar explosion is thrown out into 
space. 

One interesting observation points to a true similarity between man- 
made hydrogen bombs and supernova explosions. The astronomer 
Baade observed that the light intensity of some supernovae decreases 
in a regular way within 56 days to just one-half of its value. The 
debris from explosions of hydrogen bombs was found to contain the 
heavy isotope californium 254. This isotope has a natural fission 



ABUNDANCE OF CHEMICAL ELEMENTS — SUESS 317 

half-life of just 56 days. The possibility has been widely discussed 
recently that the light emitted by the gas cloud resulting from the ex- 
plosion of a supernova is essentially supplied by energy from the 
breakup of californium 254 nuclei. 

If this hypothesis is true, then the occurrence of such a transuranium 
element as californimn in supernovae proves that neutron buildup 
of heavy elements takes place during the explosion, necessarily lead- 
ing to the formation of all nuclear species predicted by the neutron 
buildup theory. 

There is a variety of other possibilities that can lead to the 
explosion of a star. Plelium, continuously produced from hydrogen 
in most stars, can react at the high pressures of a stellar interior to 
form carbon 12, oxygen 16, and heavier elements. When the buildup 
of nuclei reaches iron, the star can become unstable and expel a large 
fraction of its mass into outer space. The debris of such stars will 
contain large amounts of iron. Other types of stellar explosions will 
result in the formation of the light elements preferentially. Certain 
types of stars have been observed to eject matter continuously. Vari- 
ous mechanisms of nuclear synthesis proposed in earlier theories 
may be realized in the interior of different types of stars. In this 
way it becomes understandable that these theories were capable of 
predicting the relative abundances of nucleids of a certain type and 
of a certain mass range, but always failed to account for all the 
empirical facts. 

The question of whether one can accept the hypothesis that the 
elements have formed in stars depends largely on quantitative consid- 
erations of the absolute amounts that can be produced in such a 
way during a reasonable time interval, and the amount necessary 
to explain the observed composition of the stars of our galaxies. 
One can estimate that at present only about one-half of the mass of 
our galaxies is concentrated in stars. The other half is present in the 
form of interstellar gas and dust. 

It can be assumed that about 7 billion years ago our galaxies had 
the form of a huge gas mass of pure hydrogen. Out of this gas mass, 
large hydrogen stars condensed. In their interior hydrogen was con- 
verted into helium and into heavier elements. The rate of such 
processes in large stars is greater than in small ones, so that the large 
stars become unstable relatively quickly. The matter they ejected 
contained heavier elements. New generations of stars accumulated 
continuously from interstellar matter. They contained increasing 
amounts of heavier elements. Our sun, the solar system, and the 
earth were formed about 4.5 billion years ago. New astronomical 
evidence indicates that stars younger than our sun contain a larger 
percentage of heavier elements. 



318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

To many scientists this picture seems now acceptable. Many details 
are still unknown or questionable and will have to be evaluated in 
close collaboration between astronomers, nuclear physicists, and geo- 
chemists. In this connection the abundances of the elements lithium, 
beryllium, and boron may become particularly interesting, because 
these elements can only form under very special conditions. They are 
easily destroyed at high stellar temperatures. 

Our picture of the origin of the elements cannot be correlated in 
its present stage with the fundamental question whether the universe 
as a whole is eternal or has been created at a defined time. The 
present attempts by F. Hoyle and others to recognize nuclear genesis 
as part of a consistent cosmological model are not quite convincing. 
We can expect fascinating developments of our knowledge in these 
fields of science. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as 
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 



Earthquakes and Related Sources of 
Evidence on the Earth's Internal Structure 



By K. E. BuLLEN 

Professor of Applied Mathematics 
University of Sydney, Australia 



EARTHQUAKE ENERGY 

When the subject of earthquakes is mentioned the nonseismologist 
commonly thinks of death and destruction: every year there are a 
number of earthquakes in various parts of the world which com- 
mand newspaper headlines because of the great damage done. Per- 
haps the greatest recent earthquake is the one that occurred in Assam 
on August 15, 1950, causing utter devastation over some thousands of 
square miles, and felt over an area in excess of a million square miles. 

During the past 200 years or so there has been a steady accumula- 
tion of systematic knowledge of earthquake occurrence and effects. 
For example, it is now well known that earthquakes originate largely 
in two main belts. Eighty percent of all earthquake energy comes 
from a belt that passes around the Pacific Ocean and affects countries 
with coastlines bordering on this ocean — for example, New Zealand, 
New Guinea, Japan, the Aleutian Islands, Alaska, California, 
Colombia, Ecuador, and Chile. A second belt passes through the 
Mediterranean region eastward across Asia, and joins the first belt 
in the East Indies. The energy released in the second belt amounts 
to 15 percent of the total, leaving only 5 percent for the whole of the 
rest of the world. 

It is also known that 85 percent of the energy comes from centers 
or "foci" within 50 miles or less of the surface, the remaining 15 
percent coming from foci down to a depth of 450 miles. Durmg the 
present century, i.e., over the whole period of accurate recording of 
earthquakes, there has, in fact, been no earthquake with a focal depth 
exceeding 450 miles. Moreover, all but one of the earthquakes which 
originated near this extreme depth have been confined to the circum- 
pacific belt. The exceptional earthquake originated at a depth of 
nearly 400 miles below Spain in 1954. 

319 



320 AKNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

The total number of earthquakes is very great. On an average 
there are 10 earthquakes each year which are regarded as national 
disasters. Another hundred, classed as destructive earthquakes, do 
considerable damage, while a thousand do at least some damage. Ten 
thousand others are strong enough to cause alarm, and a hundred 
thousand are felt by human beings every year. In addition to that, 
a great many more earthquakes are instrumentally detected. 

The energy released in an extreme earthquake is more than one 
(American) billion times that in the smallest generally felt earth- 
quake. In the extreme earthquake the energy is about the same as 
that in a major hurricane ; but whereas the latter energy takes some 
hours or more to spend itself and covers a great area, the energy 
in an earthquake issues in the space of a few seconds at most from a 
confined region below the earth's surface whose linear dimensions 
do not ordinarily exceed a few miles. The energy in the extreme 
earthquake is nearly a hundred thousand times that in a normal atom 
bomb explosion, and perhaps ten to one hundred times that in a 
typical hydrogen bomb explosion. 

Seismologists, who study earthquakes by physical means, have long 
realized that any real understanding of the forces that bring about 
earthquakes must be preceded by a thorough detailed study of the 
structure of the earth below the surface. And it happens that earth- 
quakes themselves provide the principal means of unraveling this 
structure. The greater part of seismologists' efforts is, in fact, de- 
voted to analyzing physical data on earthquakes with a view to 
charting out the earth's mterior to the highest precision possible. 

Wlien an earthquake occurs, it sends waves down into the earth's 
interior, and the shapes and speeds of the waves are influenced by the 
nether regions they traverse. The waves, on emerging again at the 
surface, are recorded by seismographs in the thousand or so seis- 
mological observatories that are spread over the globe in nearly all 
countries. Every year there are many earthquakes large enough to 
send sizable waves right through the earth's interior, including the 
center. In deciphering the "seismograms," i.e., the records of the 
waves taken at the surface, the seismologist is in effect X-raying the 
earth, for seismic waves, mathematically speaking, are very similar to 
light waves. 

The immediate cause of the larger earthquakes is known to be the 
release of elastic strain energy which has accumulated in sizable 
volumes of material in the earth below the surface, sometimes over 
a long period beforehand. There comes a stage when the material 
is strained to breaking point, and the place where fracture starts be- 
comes the focus of an earthquake. The point of the earth's surface 
above the focus is called the epicenter; it is usually in the vicinity 
of the epicenter that the main damage is done. If the epicenter is 



EARTHQUAKES — BULLEN 321 

at sea, then, depending on the characteristics of the fracture at the 
focus, there may be formed great seismic sea waves, or tsunami, which 
can cause havoc along low-lying shores of adjacent U- and V-shaped 
bays. There is as yet no universally accepted explanation of the pri- 
mary causes that give rise to this accumulation of strain energy 
in the earth's interior, although nearly all theories relate the develop- 
ment of strain to the earth's thermal history. 

TYPES OF EARTHQUAKE WAVES 

When a seismogram is scrutinized, it is found, on the first level of 
examination, to show the presence of three broad classes of seismic 
waves. The first identification of these waves was made by Oldham 
in England in 1897, nearly 70 years after the relevant mathematical 
wave theory had been formulated. 

One of the three classes consists of waves that travel over the earth's 
surface and do not penetrate to great depths. On seismograms taken 
at considerable epicentral distances, these waves appear as the largest 
(except when the depth of focus is appreciable) ; this is because the 
surface waves, which spread out in only two dimensions, diminish 
more slowly with distance than the other waves which spread out 
through the three dimensions of the earth's interior. The surface 
waves are dispersed as they travel (the speed of any one group of 
surface waves depends on the wavelength) and the degree of dis- 
persion for a given epicentral distance throws important light on 
the structure of the outermost 25 miles or so of the earth. The 
present article, however, will be mainly concerned with the other 
classes of waves, called bodily waves, for these are the ones which 
supply information on the earth's deeper interior. 

The two classes of bodily seismic waves are called the primary or 
P waves, and the secondary or S waves, respectively. Both P and S 
waves travel faster than the surface waves, and they contribute to 
the earlier part of the record on the seismogram. The P waves are 
longitudinal like waves in sound, wliile the S waves cause the particles 
of the earth to move transversely to the direction of wave advance. 
For points not too close to the focus and epicenter, earthquake energy 
can for many purposes be regarded as traveling outward along seis- 
mic rays, analogous to rays of light. For most of their length both 
P and S rays are curved, with their concavity upward, although a 
limited number of surfaces of discontinuity inside the earth exist at 
which the rays are bent suddenly downward. Thus rays which start 
off downward at the focus, but not too steeply, emerge at relatively 
short distances from the epicenter, wliile the steeper rays emerge 
at greater distances, even as far away as the antipodal point, or 
anticenter. 



322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Tlie P waves travel tlirougli solid parts of the earth about V^ 
times as fast as S waves. In fluid regions, the S waves are not trans- 
mitted. Thus the detection of S in addition to P waves in a part of 
the earth is positive evidence of solidity (in a sense to be defined a 
little later) . Likewise, failure to detect S waves is negative evidence 
of fluidity. Near the outer surface of the earth, P waves travel at 
a speed of about 3 miles per second. The greatest speed, 8^ miles 
per second, is reached at a depth of 1,800 miles below the surface. 

One of the great labors of seismologists over the first 40 years of 
this century was to evolve, by successive approximation from crude 
beginnings, seismic travel-time tables which give the travel times 
along seismic rays in terms of the angular distances subtended by the 
rays at the earth's center. The accuracy of the Jeffreys-Bullen 
tables, which are the ones used in compiling the International Seis- 
mological Summary, is of the order of 1 or 2 seconds in travel times 
of the order of 20 minutes, in the best instances. (Twenty minutes is 
the time taken for a seismic P pulse to go straight through the earth 
from one side to the other.) 

REGIONS OF THE EARTH'S INTERIOR 

From the travel-time tables, it is possible by a mathematical proc- 
ess to estimate the speeds of P and S waves at points throughout a 
large part of the earth's interior. In the case of P waves, the speeds 
are moderately well known tlii'oughout nearly the whole interior, 
while for S waves this knowledge is available down to a depth of 1,800 
miles. On the basis of the calculations, it has become possible to 
divide the interior into a number of concentric regions. The bound- 
aries between these regions are indicated by the levels at which the P 
and S velocities, or their gradients with respect to depth, change 
abruptly with increase of depth. 

In continental regions, there is a fairly marked jump in the P and 
S velocities some 25 miles below the surface. The first evidence for 
this was obtained by the seismologist Mohorovicic in investigating 
local features of a Balkan earthquake in 1909, though he thought 
the change occurred rather deeper than 25 miles. Later work by 
others showed the change of property to be worldwide, and the bound- 
ary where the change occurs has come to be called the Mohorovicic 
discontinuity. In oceanic regions, work to date indicates that the 
depth of the discontinuity is of the order of only 5 miles below the 
ocean floor. The region which lies above the discontinuity is some- 
times called the earth's crust, though it is well to realize that the 
term has only a conventional meaning nowadays. For more than a 
thousand miles below the crust, the earth is solid, with increasing ri- 
gidity. Above the crust, the velocities of the P and S waves vary 
rather erratically and can vary in the horizontal as well as the ver- 



EARTHQUAKES — BULLEN 323 

tical direction. In contrast, the velocities below the crust depend 
very largely on the depth alone, and the variation with depth is 
much more steady. 

An early triumph in seismology was the revelation that the earth 
has a large core sharply separated from the part outside, called the 
mantle. The existence of a central core had been suspected for the 
last century, but was not established until Oldham supplied the nec- 
essary evidence from seismology in 1906. In 1913, Gutenberg (then 
in Gottingen, now of California) made a famous calculation which 
gave the depth of the core boundary as 1,800 miles, a figure that Jef- 
freys with the use of statistical theory showed in 1939 to be accu- 
rate within 3 miles or so. 

The discovery of the existence of the central core came about this 
way. Consider P waves issuing from a large hypothetical earth- 
quake with focus at the South Pole. Then it transpires that the 
waves would be strongly recorded at all stations in the Southern Hem- 
isphere, and, as well, in the Northern Hemisphere as far north as 
latitude 15°, i.e., up to the latitude of Guatemala. But between the 
latitudes of Guatemala (15° N.) and Winnipeg (52° N.), there would 
be a "shadow zone" in which the regular P waves would be much 
less prominent. Then at the latitude of Winnipeg, the P waves would 
come in strongly again and be well recorded from there to the North 
Pole. The whole of the United States would thus be inside the 
shadow zone for the particular earthquake. Similar shadow zones 
occur with all earthquakes large enough to be recorded on the opposite 
side of the earth, the location of the shadow zone dependmg, of 
course, on the location of the focus. 

On examination it was seen that the only possible explanation of 
the shadow is the presence of a central core. The regular P rays 
which emerge at epicentral distances up to 105° lie entirely in the 
mantle. Rays which emerge at 105° just graze the boundary of the 
core. Slightly steeper P rays strike the boundary at an angle and 
the shadow is produced through these rays being bent or "refracted" 
sharply downward at the boundary, with the result that they do not 
emerge at the surface until at distances beyond 142°. The phenom- 
enon is similar to the refraction of light rays at the boundary which 
separates a water surface from the air and which causes a straight 
stick partly immersed in the water to be apparently bent at the 
surface. 

No S waves have ever been detected in the earth's central core. This 
is part of the evidence that shows the central core, for most of its 
volume, to be in a fluid or molten state. The complete evidence for 
this conclusion includes measurements of tidal deformation of the 
solid earth, and astronomical observations that enable movements of 
the earth's poles to be determined. These measurements, together 



324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

with seismic data on the earth's mantle, make it possible, by a difficult 
mathematical calculation, to set limits on the extent to which the 
earth's central core can deviate from the fluid state. Recent important 
calculations of the Japanese Takeuchi and the Russian Molodenski 
indicate that the outer part (at least) of the central core is very close 
to the fluid state. 

On the other hand, both S and P waves are detected throughout the 
whole of the mantle. This shows that, apart from the oceans and 
isolated pockets of molten material near volcanoes, the earth is essen- 
tially solid down to a depth of 1,800 miles. 

It is well at this point that some indication should be given of the 
terms "solid" and "fluid." The elastic properties of an ordinary ma- 
terial in a laboratory are specified by the values of two coefficients 
which together describe how the material will be deformed under any 
given applied stress. The two coefficients are commonly taken as the 
"incompressibility," which specifies the resistance of the material to 
change of density under pressure, and the "rigidity," which specifies 
the resistance to distortion of shape. For ordinary materials, values 
of the coefficients are determined by fairly direct laboratory measure- 
ments. For materials of the earth's deep interior the values are in- 
ferred from observations of seismic waves themselves; seismology 
shows that, in spite of the great pressures that occur, the stress-strain 
relations for materials deep down in the earth have, to good approxi- 
mation, the same mathematical form as for materials at ordinary 
pressures. 

Materials, both at the earth's surface and in the deep interior, are 
called solid when the coefficients which represent the incompressibility 
and rigidity are both appreciable, and fluid when the rigidity is very 
small compared with the incompressibility. 

The seismic data show that the rigidity and the incompressibility 
both increase steadily with depth throughout the mantle. Inside the 
core, the rigidity falls to a small fraction of the mantle value while 
the incompressibility maintains a high value. 

It needs to be remarked that the discrimination here made between 
solid and fluid relates only to the behavior under stresses of short du- 
ration such as those involved in the transmission of seismic waves, i.e., 
stresses that have periods of the order of a few seconds or so. A ma- 
terial that is solid in the sense here defined might nevertheless be 
subject to mternal convection currents taking place over long periods 
of time. Whether such convection currents or other long-sustained 
forms of flow do take place in the earth's mantle is a matter of current 
controversy which the data of seismology cannot at present resolve. 

So far, we have seen that seismic data enable us to make a broad 
division of the earth into a solid mantle, including crust and subcrust, 
and a central core which is largely fluid or molten. 



EARTHQUAKES — BULLEN 325 

The beliavior of P and S waves in the mantle reveals further that 
there is some measure of inhomogeneity in the mantle below the crust. 
In the outermost TOO miles of the subcrust the velocity gradients are 
too great to be compatible with a uniform chemical and physical state. 
The precise location of these changes is complicated by the fact that 
the steep velocity gradients cause the travel-time curves to bend back 
on themselves, and this makes for difficulty in identifying the cor- 
responding pulses on seismograms. The evidence shows that these 
changes of property may set in at a level as high as a hundred miles 
below the surface, and that tliey are complete at a depth of 700 miles 
or less. The changes may be due to variation in chemical composition 
or to a physical change of state brought about by the considerable 
pressure. 

From a depth of 700 miles to within 100 miles or so of the core, 
the P and S velocity gradients are very steady, and it is likely that 
the chemical composition is nearly uniform in this part of the earth. 
In the lowest 100 miles of the mantle the velocity gradients fall to 
nearly zero and suggest some departure from uniformity. 

Prior to 1936, the central core was thought to consist of nearly 
homogeneous molten iron and nickel. Then in 1936, a Danish seis- 
mologist, Miss I. Lehmann, looked more closely at records of two New 
Zealand earthquakes in the "shadow zone." It was already known 
that the shadow zone is not a complete shadow — that there are rela- 
tively small observations of P waves in the zone. Before 1936, these 
observations had been attributed to various diffraction effects — to 
deviations from the ray theory in waves refracted by the core bound- 
ary. Similar diffraction effects are well known in the transmission 
of light. Miss Lehmann proposed, as an alternative explanation, that 
some of the waves observed in the shadow zone are really associated 
with rays that have passed into an inner core, inside the central core, 
the P velocity in the inner core being great enough to bend sharply 
upward certain of the rays which penetrate into it. 

Gutenberg and Richter showed that the travel-time data available 
by 1938 fitted Miss Lehmann's hypothesis, and in 1939 the existence 
of the inner core came to be well established when Jeffreys showed 
that the competing hypothesis of diffraction could not explain the 
size of some of the observed waves in the shadow zone. Small though 
the waves were, some of them were too large to be accounted for by 
diffraction. Recently, Burke-Gaffney and I have been able, from a 
study of several hydrogen-bomb explosions of 1954, to show the 
separate existence both of Miss Lehmann's waves, and of diffracted 
waves, on the same seismograms ; this adds a further link to the chain 
of evidence for the existence of the central core. 

Thus the earth is further divided into what, for want of a better 
name, is called the outer core extending between depths of 1,800 and 



326 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 



nearly 3,200 miles, and the inner core occupying the remaining 800 
miles to the earth's center. As will be shown later it is probable that 
the inner core is solid. In between these two parts of the central 
core there may exist a transition region about 100 miles thick. Jeffreys 
has found evidence of such a region, though not all seismologists as 
yet support the finding. It is difficult at the present stage to draw 
sharp conclusions on this part of the earth, and more evidence is 
desirable. 

The following table summarizes in broad terms the division of the 
earth into regions according to the evidence from seismology. 

Table 1. — Division of the earth into regions according to the evidence from seismology 



Region 


Range of depth 


Description 


A 


fO-10 miles (oceanic) 

\0-25 miles (continental)-.. 


"iThe earth's ocean and "outer layers." 
/ Very variable in composition. 


B, C 


25-700 miles 


The upper mantle, in which there is 
some variation of composition not yet 
precisely located. 






D' 


700-1,700 miles . 


("The lower mantle; D' appears to be 
1 nearly uniform in composition; in 
] D" there is probably some accumula- 
[ tion of somewhat denser material. 


D" 


1,700-1,800 miles 


E 


1,800-3,100 miles 


The outer core. Fluid, and probably 
uniform in composition. 




F 


3,100-3,200 miles 


Somewhat uncertain transition region 
between outer and inner core. 




G 


3,200-3,960 miles 


The inner core, probably solid. 





DENSITY, PRESSURE, GRAVITY, AND ELASTICITY IN THE EARTH'S 

DEEP INTERIOR 

To a good approximation, the velocities of seismic waves at any point 
inside the earth depend on just three properties, namely the incom- 
pressibility k, the rigidity ju,, and the density p. The previous section 
shows that values of the P and S velocities are known down to the base 
of the layer E. (Inside E, the S velocity is taken to be zero because 
of the evidence for fluidity.) This knowledge supplies two equations 
connecting the three items k, fi, and p. If only a third independent 
source of information were available, it would be a matter of simple 
algebra to calculate the values of all three of k, jx, and p down to a 
depth of more than 3,000 miles, and so obtain good knowledge of the 
variation of density and elasticity in the earth. 

In practice, no such third source of information is directly avail- 
able, and the problem has to be attacked indirectly. Use is made first 
of the fact that in parts of the earth where the composition is uniform, 



EARTHQUAKES — BULLEN 327 

the density changes due to increasing pressure are related to the in- 
compressibility, so that seismic data can be further brought to bear 
to determine density gradients in these parts of the earth. Second, 
restrictions on the possible density variations are provided from 
knowledge of the mass and moment of inertia of the earth. (The 
moment of inertia, which contains information on the degree of central 
condensation of matter in the earth, is found from the dynamics of 
the earth-moon system in conjunction with measurements of the shape 
of the earth. ) Third, by matching P and S velocities in tlie outer part 
of the earth against the results of laboratory experiments on rocks, 
an estimate can be made of the density just below the crust. 

Calculations that I carried out some years ago on these lines gave 
density values ranging from 3.3 gm/cm^ just below the crust to about 
51/^ gm/cm^ at the bottom of the mantle. The value jumps suddenly 
to 914 gm/cm^ at the top of the outer core, and is between 11 and 12 
gm/cm^ at the bottom of the outer core. At the earth's center, the 
density probably lies between 141^ and 18 gm/cm^. The uncertainty 
on the central value cannot be resolved until more is known about the 
character of the transition region F. 

This work also enabled a number of other properties of the deep in- 
terior to be deduced. Atmospheric pressure at sea level is referred to 
as 1 atmosphere (15 pounds weight per square inch). In a steam 
locomotive the pressure may be about 30 atmospheres. At the bottom 
of the Pacific Ocean, the pressure can reach 800 atmospheres. In 
special high-pressure laboratories, values between 100,000 and 300,000 
atmospheres have been reached. Inside the earth, however, the 
pressures become still greater. At the bottom of the mantle, the im- 
mense value of ly^ million atmospheres is reached, while at the earth's 
center the figure lies between 3^^ and 4 million atmospheres. 

Another section of the results relates to the acceleration ff due to 
gravity in the earth. It is remarkable that, down to a depth of 1,500 
miles, g keeps within 2 percent of its surface value of 32 f t./sec^. The 
maximum value, 34 ft./sec", is reached at the bottom of the mantle. 
Inside the core the value of g steadily diminishes, becoming zero at the 
center. 

The calculations showed further that the rigidity steadily increases 
with depth throughout the entire mantle mitil at the bottom the value 
is about four times that for steel at atmospheric pressure. The value 
then drops suddenly across the core boundary, and remains close to 
zero throughout the outer core, in keeping with the evidence that the 
outer core is fluid or molten. 

But perhaps the most important fruits in this series of calculations 
were the results for the inconiiDressibility k. Wliereas the outer core 
boundary is characterized by sudden large changes in the values of 

4925.20—59 22 



328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

the density and rigidity, the figures for h showed a change of only 
5 percent, a change which, moreover, is inside the margin of imcer- 
tainty on which the calculations rest. Further, the gradient of h 
with respect to pressure was not detectably dijfferent on the two sides 
of the boundary. 

This led me to suggest that, for the materials of the earth's deep 
interior, h changes fairly smoothly with the increasing pressure 
everywhere between a depth of 700 miles and the earth's center, a 
suggestion that has since received support from theoretical work on 
the variation of h with pressure beyond 10 million atmospheres. 

This hypothesis of the smooth variation of A; in the earth's central 
core led me further to the inference that the inner core is solid in the 
sense earlier defined, this being the natural interpretation of the jump 
in the P velocity which Miss Lehmann found between the outer and 
inner core. The seismic wave velocity equations show that either h 
or the rigidity /x must jump to account for the jump in the P velocity, 
and the available evidence all points to the conclusion that the jump 
is in \i.. The jump is from zero rigidity in the outer core to a rigidity 
in the inner core two to four times that of steel. 

It would be desirable to have the solidity of the inner core tested 
by direct detection of S waves in the inner core. The difficulty here 
is to excite S waves in the inner core from waves incident through 
the outer core from above; the latter waves, because of the fluidity 
of the outer core, must necessarily be P waves. A calculation that 
I have made on the expected amplitudes of S waves in the inner 
core shows that they are at best on the border of observability with 
present seismic resolving power, even with the mightiest earthquakes. 
The problem is illustrated by the fact that when atom bombs have 
been exploded underwater, and thus in a fluid region analogous to 
the earth's molten outer core, detectable S waves are only rarely ex- 
cited in the mantle below the ocean even when P waves are quite well 
observed. 

These various details show that, while much remains to be done, 
seismology has already given a good insight into the principal me- 
chanical properties of the earth's interior. 

THE EARTH'S COMPOSITION 

In now venturing a few remarks on the earth's composition, I need 
to say that this subject is much more conjectural than the subject 
of the earth's mechanical properties. The numerical results that 
emerge from seismology lead, however, to a few interesting sugges- 
tions on composition, even though much uncertainty remains. 

Ideas on the composition of the mantle come from matching 
numerical values of the density, the incompressibility, and their 
gradients with respect to pressure, against results derived in high- 



EARTHQUAKES — BULLEN 329 

pressure experiments on rocks made by Adams, Williamson, Bridg- 
man, Birch, and others. This work indicates that the outer mantle 
probably consists of ultrabasic rock, an olivine composition being 
commonly assumed ; other possibilities that have been considered are 
that the rocks are eclogite or peridotite. Birch has suggested that 
the lower mantle may consist of phases including silica, magnesia, and 
iron oxide. It is possible that an appreciable quantity of free iron 
also occurs in the mantle. It is not yet certain whether the changes 
in the outer mantle are essentially progressive composition changes 
or are due to change of crystal type or other physical transformation. 
There is as yet no widely accepted explanation of the character of the 
changes inside the lowest 100 miles of the mantle. 

The question of the composition of the central core has lately be- 
come mteresting. Until a few years ago, it was widely accepted 
that the whole core consists predominantly of iron and nickel. This 
conclusion was based on observations of meteorite composition, and 
on the known relatively high density in the core. 

Then in 1941 two European geophysicists put forward the radically 
different theory that the core consists of compressed hydrogen. Over- 
whelming arguments against this theory were quickly stated, but the 
theory led to an important calculation in 1946 which showed that, at 
700,000 atmospheres (a pressure reached inside the earth's lower 
mantle), the density of hydrogen would suddenly jump from about 
0.4 to 0.8 gm/cm^. This led to the idea, first advanced by W. H. 
Ramsey of Great Britain, that perhaps at the huge pressure of ll^ 
million atmospheres reached at the outer core boundary, the material 
there existing might suddenly jump in density from 5i/^ to 91/^ 
gm/cm^ as a direct consequence of the high pressure and not as a 
change of composition from rock to iron. Such modification of the 
rock (or other material) of the lower mantle would incidentally have 
all the physical properties of a metal and be electrically conducting. 
Thus theories which attribute the earth's magnetism to currents in 
the outer core would not be affected. 

An interesting point is that, on the new theory, the density in the 
earth's interior would be largely determined by pressure alone, which 
would not be the case if the mantle and core were of distinct chemical 
composition. Hence, knowing the pressure-density relation for the 
earth, it becomes possible on the new theory, given the mass of a 
planet of identical composition, to compute its diameter. Starting 
from the known masses of Venus and Mars, calculations made in this 
way give in fact fair agreement with the observed diameters of the 
two planets, and also with the observed ellipticity of figure of Mars. 
In contrast, Jeffreys has shovsn that Venus, the Earth, and Mars must 
have considerably different over-all compositions if the earth's mantle 
and core are chemically distinct. Hence the Ramsey theory is closely 



330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

linked with the question of a common composition of the three planets. 
The planet Mercury in its present state has too high a mean density 
to fit this common composition, but there is a possibility that the 
present Mercury through its proximity to the sun and consequent 
temperature may be appreciably denser than the primitive Mercury. 

The question of the composition of the outer core continues to be 
controversial, and as yet it has not been possible to devise a crucial 
experimental or theoretical test to discriminate between the old and 
the new theories. 

Although the regions E and F of the earth may not be composed 
predominantly of iron and nickel, several arguments all show that 
these two metals must predominate in the inner core. The course of 
the P velocity variations further suggests that there is some progres- 
sive change of composition inside the inner core, perhaps due to the 
presence of some additional denser materials. 

EARTHQUAKES AND NUCLEAR EXPLOSIONS 

Atom and hydrogen bombs resemble earthquakes in that they can 
send seismic waves down into the earth's interior. Although, as 
pointed out earlier in this article, the available energy in them is less 
than that in the waves produced by large natural earthquakes, there 
is a great compensating advantage to seismic research in that the 
source and location of artificial explosions can be knovvn in advance. 

In spite of the knowledge so far gained from natural earthquakes, 
we are much troubled in our inferences from this data because of our 
initial total ignorance of conditions at the source. On the other hand, 
a nuclear explosion can in effect be regarded as a "controlled earth- 
quake" in which the time and place of origin can be precisely known, 
so that there is the possibility of inferring the internal structure of the 
earth much more accurately. For this reason, seismologists have been 
greatly interested in the possibility of using nuclear explosions to 
help them in their studies. Chemical explosions have already been 
employed with much success in unraveling the structure of the earth's 
crust. But larger sources are needed to send waves deep into the 
interior. 

The very first atom bomb, exploded in New Mexico in 1945, was 
seismically recorded. A noteworthy feature of that explosion is that, 
whereas the origin time recorded at the source was uncertain by 15 
seconds, the origin time is known to within 2 seconds from seismic 
records. 

There was no mistake at the source in recording the Bikini under- 
water explosion of July 1946. The origin time of that explosion was 
officially released to two decimal places of a second ! The resulting 
seismic waves were recorded at eight observatories in the United 
States at epicentral distances as great as 5,000 miles. Even though so 



EARTHQUAKES — BULLEN 331 

few observatories recorded the waves, the results are seismically valu- 
able, and have supplied important corrections to the travel-time tables. 

From 1947 until 1957 there was no general release of source data 
on nuclear explosions in any country, although in some cases individual 
seismologists have been given access to data. For example, Dr. B. 
Gutenberg and Dr. D. S. Carder have been able to make important 
inferences from records of a number of explosions carried out by the 
United States. In Australia, a group of seismologists was given ad- 
vance knowledge, and subsequently the relevant source data, on four 
nuclear tests carried out in central Australia. This information has 
been invaluable in leading to our first reliable knowledge of the 
broad structure down to a depth of 30 miles or so in a part of Australia. 

The United States hydrogen-bomb explosions of 1954 have proved to 
be of great interest, and have been the subject of special studies by 
T. N. Burke-Gaffney, Director of the Riverview Observatory (Syd- 
ney), and myself. 

About the middle of March 1954 news that a hydrogen bom.b had 
been exploded was made public. Following this, information from 
Japanese fishermen indicated that the explosion had taken place near 
Bikini Atoll slightly before dawn on March 1, local time. This news 
made it feasible for a search to be made on a sufficiently limited stretch 
of the Riverview seismograms, and it transpired that there was indeed 
an isolated sharp movement near the expected time. The routine 
smnmary of seismic wave onsets recorded at Brisbane, 600 miles from 
Sydney, also reported a sharp movement in agreement with the River- 
view reading. 

This was enough to warrant an inspection of overseas seismological 
bulletins as they came in. It soon became evident that seismic waves 
from four of the 1954 hydrogen-bomb explosions had been distinctly 
recorded in at least 12 countries. Strangely enough, several of the 
observatories concerned had not realized that certain of their routine 
readings related to these explosions. 

When all the data were put together, we diagnosed what we felt to 
be the pattern of the explosions, and made estimates of the origin 
times. A recent release by the United States Atomic Energy Com- 
mission shows that our estimates were coiTect within 0.0, 0.1, 0.4, and 
0.7 second, respectively. The results have proved to have been of 
importance to geophysics in shedding further light on the earth's 
inner core, and have supplied additional useful corrections to the 
travel-time tables. 

Further work on hydrogen-bomb explosions has been carried out by 
Gutenberg, Carder, Burke-Gaffney, and Rothe. 

Last September there was an interesting development following my 
presidential address to the International Association of Seismology 
and the Physics of the Earth's Interior on the subject of "Seismology 



332 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

in Our Atomic Age." Three days later a cable from Dr. W. F. Libby 
of the United States Atomic Energy Commission gave advance source 
details of an underground explosion that was carried out in Nevada 
on September 19. This advance news greatly excited the seismologists 
gathered at Toronto who made hurried endeavors to have the seismic 
waves from the explosion as well recorded as possible. 

Actually, the waves that went into the ground from the explosion 
turned out to be relatively small, and, generally speaking, were re- 
corded only in Western United States at distances up to about 700 
miles. There were, however, recordings by special field instruments 
which had been set up for the purpose in Mexico at a distance of I54OO 
miles, and by a very sensitive seismograph in Alaska, 2,300 miles away. 
Doubt remains as to whether the more distant recordings would have 
been identified as waves from a nuclear explosion if the source data 
had not been released. From the seismic point of view, the explosion 
was principally useful in supplying further information on crustal 
structure in Western United States. 

Seismologists hope that in due course it will be possible to utilize 
nuclear explosions to sharpen many of their inferences on the earth's 
interior. At the same time, seismologists appreciate that all such 
controlled experiments that are carried out at their instigation must 
be subject to total scrutiny on the score of human welfare, genetical 
and otherwise. 

Earthquakes and atom bombs both have great potentialities as de- 
structive agents. But both can, nevertheless, be turned to great 
advantage in enabling us to understand the properties of our planet 
earth. 

REFERENCES 

Bates, D. R. (Editor). 

1957. The planet earth. London. (Includes discussions, written for the 
lay reader, on various aspects of the earth's interior.) 

BULLEN, K. E. 

1953. Introduction to the theory of seismology. 2d ed. Cambridge Uni- 

versity Press. (Contains a mathematical discussion of seismic 
waves in relation to the earth's interior.) 

1954. Seismology. London. (A briefer and less advanced account of 

seismic waves and the earth's interior.) 
Jeffreys, Sib H. 

1950. Earthquakes and mountains. London. (An account written for the 
layman.) 

1952. The earth. 3d ed. Cambridge University Press. (An advanced ac- 
count of the problems of the earth's interior.) 



The Darwin-Wallace Centenary' 



By Sir Gavin de Beer 

Director, British Museum {Natural History) 



FROM SPECIAL CREATION TO TRANSFORMISM 

Only one hundred years have gone by since the concept of evolu- 
tion was brought to the attention of thinking men in a manner which 
has compelled its acceptance. The demonstration that the members 
of the plant and animal kingdoms are as they are because they have 
become what they are, and that change, not immutability, is the rule 
of living things, is one of the most important contributions ever made 
to knowledge, and its effects have been felt in every field of human 
thought. 

That plants and animals constitute natural kinds, or species, had 
become clear by the end of the seventeenth century, when Jolin Ray 
defined them as groups of individuals that breed among themselves. 
In general, species were accepted as being the result of special creation 
in each case, and there was little incentive to inquire further. 

In the eighteenth century doubts began to arise concerning the 
immutability of species. Some philosophers arguing theoretically, 
and a small number of naturalists who encountered difficulty in dis- 
tinguishing between varieties of cultivated plants and of domestic 
animals, which were recognized as the diversified products of species, 
found difficulty in accepting the view that species were unchangeable. 
Some naturalists, including Linnaeus himself in his later years, 
adopted a compromise, allowing that species could have descended 
with modification from genera, but that genera were immutable. 

With the increase in detailed knowledge of the flora and fauna of 
the world consequent upon the final stages of exploration, the problem 
of the distinction between varieties and species became acute. With 
boldness, and a breadth of vision amounting to genius, the French 
naturalist Lamarck cut the knot by proclaiming that there was no 
essential difference between species and varieties, that both species 
and varieties were subject to change, and that "transformism," not 



* Reprinted by permission from Endeavour, vol. 17, No. 66, April 1958. 

333 



334 AKNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

immutability of species, was the basis of life. As it happened, there 
were two reasons why Lamarck's ideas were unacceptable. The first 
was that he undertook no analysis to provide evidence for his notion 
of evolution: it flashed across his mind, and he assumed its truth 
without taking the trouble to prove it. Secondly, he attempted to give 
an explanation of the causes of evolution which, unfortunately, raised 
opposition to the acceptance of the concept of evolution itself. He 
supposed that as a result of new needs experienced by the animal, its 
"inner feelings" or subconscious activities produced new organs which 
satisfied those needs. Not only was such a supposition unacceptable 
for the solution of the problem of the origin of species of animals, 
but it was totally inapplicable to plants. On the other hand, Lamarck 
elaborated a view which for a long time was accepted but which is 
now known to be without foundation, namely that the effects of use 
and disuse were transmitted by inheritance. There for a time the 
matter rested. 

THE FACT OF EVOLUTION 

IVlien Darwin started on the voyage of the Beagle in 1831, he had 
no reason to doubt the immutability of species. The speculations of 
his grandfather Erasmus counted for nothing with him, because they 
were not supported by evidence. Those of Lamarck on the causes of 
evolution had the additional demerit of bringing the subject into 
disrepute by their fanciful nature. It must be added that in Lyell's 
"Principles of Geology," to which Darwin owed so much because of 
the general background of uniformitarianism in place of catastro- 
phism that it advocated, the possibility of evolution was firmly rejected. 

Three sets of observations started Darwin's revolt against the im- 
mutability of species. The first was occasioned by his studies of the 
fauna of the Galapagos Islands, where he found that species of 
finches differed slightly from island to island, while showing gen- 
eral resemblances not only to each other but to the finches on the 
adjacent mainland of South America. If these species had been 
separately created, why should there have been such a prodigal expend- 
iture of "creation" just there; why should geographical propinquity 
have caused these "creations" to resemble each other so closely ; why, 
in spite of the similarity in physical conditions between the islands 
of the Galapagos Archipelago and the Cape Verde Islands, are their 
faunas totally different, the former resembling that of South America 
while the fauna of the latter resembles that of Africa ? 

The second set of observations related to the fact that as he traveled 
over South America he noticed that the species occupying a particular 
niche in some regions were replaced in neighboring regions by other 
species that were different, yet closely similar. Why are the rabbitlike 
animals on the savannahs of La Plata built on the plan of the peculiar 



DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY — DE BEER 335 

South American type of rodent and not on that of North America or 
the Old World? 

The third set of observations was concerned with the fact that in 
the pampas he found fossil remains of large mammals covered with 
armor like that of the armadillos now living on that continent. Why 
were these extinct animals built on the same plan as those now living ? 

On the view that species were immutable and had not changed smce 
they were severally created, there was no rational answer to any of 
these questions, which would have had to remain as unfathomable 
mysteries. On the other hand, if species, like varieties, were subject 
to modification during descent and to divergence into different lines 
of descent, all these questions could be satisfactorily and simply an- 
swered. The finches of the Galapagos resemble each other and those 
of South America because they are descended from a common ancestor ; 
they differ from one another because they are each adapted to modes 
of life restricted to their own particular island, one, for instance, feed- 
ing on seeds on the ground and another on insects in trees. The vol- 
canic nature and physical conditions of the Galapagos Islands re- 
semble those of the Cape Verde Islands, and yet the Galapagos birds 
all differ from the birds of the Cape Verde Islands : therefore it is 
not the physical conditions of the islands that determine their differ- 
ences. These differences arose because the Cape Verde Islands birds 
share a common ancestor with the birds of Africa, whereas the Gala- 
pagos birds share a common ancestor with those of South America. 
The hares of South America are built on the South American rodent 
plan because all South American rodents are descended from a com- 
mon ancestor. The fossil Glyptodon resembles the living armadillos 
because they also share a common ancestor ; this case is particularly 
important because, if living species show affinity with extinct species, 
there is no necessity to believe that extinct types of animals have left 
no living descendants. Tliey may have representatives alive today, 
and this means that the whole wealth of the paleontological record 
of fossils is available as material for the study of the problem of 
evolution. 

In possession of a working hypothesis that species have undergone 
evolution and successive origination by descent, with modification, 
from ancestral species shared in common with other species, Darwin 
next proceeded to search the whole field of botanical and zoological 
knowledge for evidence bearing on his hypothesis. He realized that 
no general principle that explained the evolution of animals was ac- 
ceptable unless it also applied to plants. The result was one of the 
most remarkable attacks on a problem ever made by the inductive 
method of searching for facts, whatever their import might be. 

In the first place, in cultivated plants and domestic animals such 
as the dahlia, the potato, the pigeon, and the rabbit, a large number 



336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

of varieties have in each case been produced from a single original 
stock. Descent with modification and divergence into several lines 
is therefore certainly possible within the species. 

Comparative anatomy reveals the existence of similar plans of 
structure in large groups of organisms. Plants may have vegetative 
leaves, and in some cases these are modified into parts of flowers. 
Vertebrate animals have f orelimbs that may be used for walking, run- 
ning, swimming, or flying, but in which the various parts of the skele- 
ton correspond, bone for bone, from the upper arm to the last joints 
of the fingers, whether the animal is a frog, a lizard, a turtle, a bird, 
a rabbit, a seal, a bat, or a man. This is what is meant by saying 
that such structures are homologous, and these correspondences are 
inexplicable unless the animals are descended from a common ancestor. 
Fundamental resemblance is therefore evidence of genetic affinity. 

The study of comparative behavior proves that related forms show 
gradations in their instincts, such as shamming death in insects and 
nest building in birds. At the same time, related species inhabiting 
different parts of the earth under very different conditions retain simi- 
lar instincts. Examples are the habit of thrushes in England and in 
South America of lining nests with mud, and that of wrens in England 
and North America of the males building "cock nests." Wliy should 
this be, unless the different species of thrushes and wrens are descended 
from common ancestors in each case? 

Embryology reveals remarkable similarity in structure between 
young embryos of animals which in the adult stage are as different as 
fish, lizard, fowl, and man. This similarity even extends to such de- 
tails as the manner in which the blood vessels run from the heart to 
the dorsal aorta, a plan which is of obvious significance in the case 
of the fish that breathes by means of gills, but not so obvious in that 
of lizard, chick, or man, where gill pouches are formed in the embryo 
but soon become transformed into different structures, and breathing 
is carried out by other means. This similarity between embryos is ex- 
plained by the affinity and descent from a common ancestor of the 
groups to which they belong. 

Embryology also provides evidence of vestiges of structures which 
once performed important functions in the ancestors but now either 
perform different functions or none at all. Examples of such organs 
are the teeth of whalebone whales, the limbs of snakes, the wings of 
ostriches and penguins, and the flowers of the feather-hyacinth. Since 
Darwin's time countless other examples have been discovered. The 
most striking of these are the pineal gland which is a vestigial eye, and 
vestiges of the egg tooth still found in marsupials, although it is 75 
million years since their ancestors had to use an egg tooth to crack 
the shell and hatch out of their eggs. Here again, descent from com- 
mon ancestral forms explains all these cases. 



DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY — DE BEER 337 

Knowledge of the fossil record in Darwin's time was so imperfect 
that nothing was then available in the way of series illustrating the 
course of evolution. Nevertheless, he noticed that in Tertiary strata 
the lower the horizon the fewer fossils there were belonging to species 
alive today. Paleontology therefore showed that new species had 
appeared and old species become extinct, not all at the same time, but 
in succession and gradually. Why should this be so unless new species 
have come into existence from time to time by descent with modifica- 
tion from other species ? 

Plants and animals are classified according to their resemblance, 
and they are placed in one or another of a not very large number of 
groups, such as ferns, conifers, mollusks, or mammals. But within 
each of these gi^oups there is subdivision into other smaller groups, 
mammals being so subdivided into rodents, carnivores, ungulates, and 
primates for example. Within these again there is further subdivision, 
and the important point to notice is that classification always places 
species in groups that are contained within other larger groups. This 
is such a commonplace that its significance is often overlooked. Why 
do organisms have to be classified like this ? Why are they not strewn 
in single file up the ladder of the plant and animal kingdoms, or 
fortuitously like pebbles on a beach, or arbitrarily like the stars in 
imaginary constellations? The reason is that the arrangement of 
groups within groups is a natural classification reflecting the course 
of evolution. It is the result of descent from common ancestors and 
an indication of affinity ; the differences between the groups are due 
to modification and divergence during such descent. 

Darwin also investigated the problem of interspecific sterility and 
saw that it was by no means absolute, because numerous examples can 
be found of different species that produce hybrids, and in some cases 
these hybrids are themselves fertile. From the point of view of breed- 
ing, therefore, such species behave like varieties. Why, then, can 
species not have originated as varieties, by descent and modification 
from other species ? 

From the evidence provided by all these sources Darwin built up 
an irrefutable argument that species have changed and originated 
from other species and that evolution has occurred. That he should 
have been able to do so from such few data is a mark of genius, for 
at the time when he worked out his conclusions, none of the cases had 
been discovered which would now be used as the most striking examples 
with which to illustrate the fact and the course of evolution. Chief 
among these are the beautiful series of fossils which reveal the evolu- 
tion of the ammonites or of the horses, step by step, and those which 
represent the precursors of the various classes and groups of verte- 
brates such as Archaeopteryx or Pithecanthro'pus. 



338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

The main steps in Darwin's proof of the fact of evolution were 
established by 1842, when he committed them to paper in the form 
of a Sketch which he expanded into an Essay in 1844, though neither 
was published by him. Soon after this, another naturalist, Alfred 
Russel Wallace, was led to explore similar lines of research. From 
some simple observations on the distribution of organisms, both geo- 
graphically over the world and geologically in the fossil record, 
Wallace drew some equally simple conclusions that are of great im- 
portance in the history of thought that led to the realization of 
evolution. They show that, independently of Darwin and in com- 
plete ignorance of his work, Wallace had hit upon the same solution 
of the problem of the mutability of species. 

Wallace's observations were based on the facts, first, that large 
systematic groups such as classes and orders are usually distributed 
over the whole of the earth, whereas groups of low systematic value 
such as families, genera, and species frequently have a very small 
localized distribution. Second, "when a group is confined to one dis- 
trict, and is rich in species, it is almost invariably the case that the 
most closely allied species are found in the same locality or in closely 
adjoining localities, and that therefore the natural sequence of the 
species by affinity is also geographical." Third, in the fossil record 
large groups extend through several geological formations, and "no 
group or species has come into existence twice." 

The conclusion which Wallace drew from these observations was 
that "Every species has come into existence coincident both in space 
and time with a pre-existing closely allied species." Thought out 
about 1845, written at Sarawak in 1855, and published in the same 
year, Wallace's theory already allowed him to say that "the natural 
series of affinities will also represent the order in which the several 
species came into existence, each one having had for its immediate 
antitype a closely allied species existing at the time of its origin. It 
is evidently possible that two or three distinct species may have had 
a common antitype, and that each of these may again have become 
the antitype from which other closely allied species were created." 

With the help of this principle, in which it is only necessary to 
substitute "ancestor" for "antitype" for the formulation of evolution 
to be complete, Wallace showed that it was possible to give a simple 
explanation of natural classification, of the geographical distribu- 
tion of plants and animals, including those of the Galapagos Islands, 
of the succession of forms in the fossil record, and of rudimentary 
organs which would be inexplicable "if each species had been created 
independently, and without any necessary relations with preexisting 
species." 



DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY — DE BEER 339 

So much of the credit for the establishment of the fact of evolution 
has, rightly, been accorded to Darwin that it is only just that Wal- 
lace's contribution to this problem should be recognized and honored. 

The evidence on which Darwin and Wallace based their demonstra- 
tion that evolution was a fact is not only valid to this day, but has 
been confirmed in all the branches of science concerned as well as 
in many new fields. There was in their day not even an inkling of 
the possibilities of research opened up by comparative physiology 
and biochemistry, or of serology as a quantitative indicator of the 
amount of divergence that has taken place between related forms. 
Wliy should the chemical substance involved in the mechanism of 
muscular contraction in most invertebrates be arginine, whereas it 
is creatine in vertebrates and echinoderms, which on independent evi- 
dence are regarded as related? Wliy should serum immunized 
against man give precipitations of 64 percent when mixed with blood 
of a gorilla, but 42 percent with that of an orangutan, 29 percent with 
that of a baboon, and only 10 percent with that of an ox? Wliy 
should syphilis attack the chimpanzee more seriously than the orang- 
utan, and the latter more seriously than the baboon? Why should 
the human ABO blood-group system also be found in the apes? The 
answer to all these questions is that the organisms concerned have 
undergone evolution from common ancestors, as a result of which 
members of the various lines of descent share not only structural, men- 
tal, and genetical characters, but also physiological and biochemical 
mechanisms and immunological reactions. 

THE MECHANISM OF NATURAL SELECTION 

Although Darwin already knew in 1837 that evolution was an in- 
escapable conclusion to be drawn from the evidence, he did not allow 
himself to proceed any further with his discovery until he had found 
an explanation of the fact of adaptation. In a general way, all plants 
and animals are adapted to their environment, for otherwise they 
could not live. A man drowns in the sea; a fish dies out of water. 
But there are some structures which show a particularly intimate 
relationship between the organism and its conditions of life. Mistletoe 
is a parasite that requires a tree of certain species to live on, a par- 
ticular insect to pollinate its flowers, and a thrush to eat its berries 
and deposit its seeds on branches of the same species of tree. A wood- 
pecker has two of its toes turned backward with which it grips the 
bark of tree ; it has stiff tail feathers with which it props itself against 
the tree ; it has a very stout beak with which it bores holes in the tree 
trunk ; and it has an abnormally long tongue with which it takes the 
grubs at the bottom of the holes. Other plants than mistletoe and 
other birds than woodpeckers do not have all these adaptations, and 



340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

therefore, if evolution has occurred, it is necessary to give an objective 
explanation of how these adaptations arose. 

Darwin knew that all members of a species are not identical but 
show variation in size, strength, health, fertility, longevity, instincts, 
habits, mental attributes, and countless other characters. He soon 
perceived that such variation could be, and in fact was, turned to good 
account by man in the course of artificial selection, which he has 
practiced in the production of cultivated plants and domestic animals 
since the New Stone Age. The key was selection, the practice of 
breeding only from those parents that possess the desired qualities. 
But how could selection have operated on wild plants and animals 
in nature since the beginning of life on earth without man or a con- 
scious being to direct it? The solution of this puzzle occurred to 
Darwin accidentally when he read Malthus's "Essay on the Principles 
of Population" and realized that under the conditions of competition 
in which plants and animals live, any variations would be preserved 
which increased the organisms' ability to leave fertile offspring, while 
those variations which decreased it would be eliminated. In a state of 
nature, selection works automatically, which is why Darwin called it 
natural selection. 

Darwin was then able to formulate a complete theory providing 
a rational explanation of the causes as well as of the fact of evolution 
in plants and animals. It is formally based on four propositions 
which he already knew to be true, and three deductions which are 
now also known to be true. They may be enumerated as follows : 

1. Organisms produce a far greater number of reproductive cells than 

ever give rise to mature individuals. 

2. The numbers of individuals in species remain more or less constant. 

3. Therefore there must be a high rate of mortality. 

4. The individuals in a species are not all identical, but show variation 

in all characters. 

5. Therefore some variants will succeed better and others less well 

in the competition for survival, and the parents of the next gener- 
ation will be naturally selected from among those members of 
the species that show variation in the direction of more effective 
adaptation to the conditions of their environment. 

6. Hereditary resemblance between parent and offspring is a fact. 

7. Therefore subsequent generations will by gradual change maintain 

and improve on the degree of adaptation realized by their 
parents. 
This is the formal theory of evolution by natural selection, first 
announced jointly on July 1, 1958, by Darwin and Alfred Kussel 
Wallace, who had, again independently, come to the identical con- 
clusion. It represents a step in knowledge comparable to Newton's 
discovery of the law of gravitation. 



DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY — de BEER 341 

THE INTEGRATION OF MENDELIAN GENETICS WITH SELECTION 

When Darwin wrote, nothing whatever was known about the laws 
of heredity, and all that he had to go on was the vague notion that 
offspring tended to strike an average between the characters of their 
parents. This supposition went by the name of "blending inherit- 
ance," and it occasioned for Darwin the greatest difficulty with which 
he had to contend in formulating his theory. In the first place, if 
blending inheritance were true, it would mean that any new variation 
which appeared, even if heritable, would be rapidly diluted by 
"swampmg," and in about 10 generations would have been obliterated. 
To compensate for this it would be necessary to suppose that new 
variations were extremely frequent. Since whole brothers, sons of 
the same father and mother, share an identical heredity, any differ- 
ence between them would have to be due to new variation that had 
arisen during their own early lives, and variation would have to 
affect practically all members of a species. This problem of the 
supply of variation was a difficulty which Darwin felt so acutely 
that it even led him to look for a source of this supply in the supposed 
hereditary effects of use and disuse. 

This reliance on the effects of use and disuse as a source of varia- 
tion, without any effect on his main argument, is the only part of 
Darwin's demonstration that has had to be abandoned, and he would 
have welcomed the reasons for it. If only Darwin had realized it, 
the solution to all these difficulties was at that very time being provided 
by Gregor Mendel, but his results were unknown until 1900, eighteen 
years after Darwin's death. 

The Mendelian theory of the gene was worked out by T. H. Morgan 
and his colleagues with an unprecedented wealth of experimental 
evidence from the breeding pen and from cytological studies on the 
structure of the cell and its chromosomes. It has established, as 
firmly as Newton's laws of motion or the atomic theory, that hereditary 
resemblances are determined by discrete particles, the genes, situ- 
ated in the chromosomes of the cells, which are transmitted to offspring 
in accordance with the mechanism of germ-cell formation and fer- 
tilization, and conform to distributional patterns known as Mendelian 
inheritance. The researches of C. D. Darlington and others on the 
structure and behavior of the chromosomes have reached such a degree 
of refinement and precision that each step in the mechanism of 
Mendelian inheritance can actually be seen under the microscope. 

The genes preserve their separate identity ; they collaborate in the 
production of the characters of the individual that possesses them, 
but they never contaminate each other ; they remain constant for long 
periods, but from time to time they midergo a change, known as muta- 
tion, which involves a change in the characters which they control ; 
after this they remain constant in their new condition until they mu- 



342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

tate again. It lias been conclusively proved tliat the theory of the 
gene applies to all plants and all animals investigated, and that the 
mutation of genes is the only known way in which heritable variation 
arises. The modifications resulting from good or bad food supply, or 
from the climatic conditions in which plants and animals live, are not 
inherited and are therefore without significance in evolution. 

The history of the reception of Mendelian genetics after its dis- 
covery has been peculiar. The earliest mutations discovered, often 
called "sports," were usually deleterious and showed marked and dis- 
continuous steps instead of the gradual and continuous variation 
which Darwinian selectionists looked for as the raw material of 
evolution. Selectionists therefore rejected Mendelian genetics as the 
source of variation. On the other hand, the Mendelian geneticists, 
knowing that their mutations were the only source of heritable varia- 
tion, thought that as they showed wide discontinuous steps and arose 
suddenly, readymade and apparently without long- continued selec- 
tion, selection was inoperative in evolution, and they rejected it. 

With the progress of knowledge it gradually became obvious that 
each of these two schools of research objected to the other for reasons 
which were baseless. As more and more genes were identified and 
their effects studied, it became clear that the wide and discontinuous 
mutations first observed were the more easily detected extremes of a 
range in which the majority exert only slight effects. For the same 
reason, these mutations were deleterious because organisms are 
delicately adjusted systems, more likely to be upset by large and 
discontinuous clianges than by small and gradual steps. 

The Mendelian geneticists also had to learn two lessons. On the 
one hand they discovered that although individual genes are associated 
with particular characters, their control of those characters is also 
affected by all the other genes, which constitute an organized gene 
complex. As a result of previous mutations, gene complexes of 
plants and animals in nature contain many genes, and these are sorted 
out and recombined at fertilization in astronomically nmnerous pos- 
sibilities of permutations. These recombinations have been shown to 
bring about gradual and continuous changes in the characters mider 
the major control of individual genes. Sir Ronald Fisher demon- 
strated the significance of this by showing that a mutant gene that now 
exhibits the quality known as dominance has gradually become domi- 
nant from a previous intermediate condition. This is what has hap- 
pened to those mutations that confer a benefit on their possessors, and 
in their case there has been a selection of gene complexes in favor of 
those which accentuate the effects of a favorable mutant, so that these 
effects are manifested even if the mutant gene is inherited from only 
one parent, which is the definition of dominance. Conversely, with 
genes that place a handicap on their possessors, there has been a selec- 



DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY — DE BEER 343 

tion of gene complexes in favor of those which suppress the effects of 
such genes so that they are manifested only when the mutant gene is 
inherited from both parents, which is the definition of recessiveness. 
They may be suppressed even further, as when the effects of such a 
gene are obliterated and the gene becomes what is known as a "modi- 
fier," without major control over characters. It has even been 
demonstrated by E. B. Ford, under rigorous experimental conditions, 
that one and the same mutant gene can be made to become dominant 
in one strain and recessive in another, simply by selecting as parents 
those individuals whose gene complexes accentuate or diminish the 
effects of the gene. 

The second lesson that Mendelian geneticists had to learn was that 
although the effects of the mutations which they first observed ap- 
peared to be clear-cut, they were already the results of past gene 
complexes. For these mutations have occurred before, and the gene 
complexes have become adjusted to them. The fact that a single gene 
may now act as a switch controlling the production of one or another 
character difference does not mean that this character difference orig- 
inally arose at one stroke by one mutation of such a switch gene, be- 
cause it has probably been built up gradually as a result of past selec- 
tion in the gene complex. 

It is therefore clear that mutations and recombinations of genes 
provide the supply of variation on which selection acts to cause 
evolution exactly in the way Darwin's theory requires. Its require- 
ments are exactmg, for, as T. H. Huxley pointed out, some organisms 
have evolved slowly and others have evolved fast ; he saw that natural 
selection was the only mechanism that could satisfy both those re- 
quirements. It is able to do so because Mendelian inheritance is 
capable of producing both diversity and stability. As Ford has 
said, an immense range of types must be available for natural selection 
to act upon, and this is provided by mutation and recombination of 
genes. Yet when a favorable gene complex has been achieved it 
must not be dissipated and broken down, and this is provided against 
by the facts that the genes do not blend or contaminate one another, 
and that they mutate only rarely. 

THE SIGNIFICANCE OF PARTICULATE INHERITANCE IN EVOLUTION 

The particulate theory of inheritance which Mendelian genetics 
has established involves a number of consequences of fundamental 
importance for the problem of evolution. In the first place, the sub- 
stitution of this quantitative and deterministic science for the vague 
and baseless notion of "blending inheritance" completely disposes of 
the difficulty under which Darwin labored to account for the neces- 
sary supply of variation on which natural selection could act. The 

492520—59 23 



344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

most characteristic feature of the Mendelian gene is that it never 
blends, but retains its identity and properties intact for long periods 
of time until it mutates, after which it remains intact in its new 
condition until it eventually mutates again. This means that the 
amount of variation, or variance, present in a population resulting 
from previous mutations, is not only conserved through generation 
after generation, but is actually increased as a result of the recom- 
binations of the gene complexes in their innumerable possible per- 
mutations. This power of increase is one of the most important 
results of the biparental method of reproduction and is the reason 
why organisms possessed of this mechanism have evolved further than 
those that lack it. 

This conservation of variance is to be considered in relation to the 
rate at which mutation normally occurs. It has been calculated that 
in organisms as diverse as a bacterium, a maize plant, a fruit fly, 
and in man, any given gene mutates in one in about half a million 
individuals. It is also clear that this rate is itself the result of 
selection, and that although seemingly slow, it has been adequate to 
provide the requisite basic heritable variation which the mechanism 
of germ-cell formation and fertilization has multiplied, and on which 
selection has worked to produce whatever evolution has taken place. 
In other words, mutation not only need not, but must not be more 
rapid than a slow rate. This rate is immeasurably slower than 
what it would have to be if "blending inheritance" were a fact, and 
Darwin's difiiculty in accounting for an adequate supply of variation 
is lightened by that amount. 

As the originating mechanism for basic heritable variation, muta- 
tion has naturally been intensively studied. It has been found that 
certain physical and chemical agents, including radioactivity, can ac- 
celerate the rate at which mutation would naturally occur, but that 
these induced mutations are similar to those which occur and recur 
normally, and no correlation whatever exists between the mutagenic 
agents and the quality or "direction" of the mutations. Mutations 
take place with "blindness and molar indeterminacy," as H. J. Muller 
has expressed it. This is a finding of capital importance, for it shows 
that there is no basis for attempts to explain the origin of heritable 
variation by appealing to environmental factors to evoke appropriate 
responses, or to the internal factors to make such responses. Nor is 
there any basis for the view that the environment would evoke ap- 
propriate heritable responses if its actions were continued for a suffi- 
cient time, because, as J. B. S. Haldane showed, such responses as 
might be significant in evolution would be detected within the period 
of the experiment carried out. 

In organisms that reproduce by simple division of the whole body, 
such as bacteria, special conditions apply because reproduction in them 



DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY — db BEER 345 

involves not only transmission of genetic material in the form of 
genes, but also transmission of bodily characters, since the latter are 
carried over wholesale from "parent" to offspring. Adaptation to 
new environments can take place in bacteria. Furthermore, in bac- 
teria, and perhaps also in higher organisms, it is possible for organic 
molecules such as bacteriophage particles to enter organisms and be- 
come incorporated in the genetic mechanisms so as to behave like 
genes. These results are full of promise as a field of research into the 
nature of genes, and perhaps of mutations, but they do not in any way 
invalidate the principles of Mendelian genetics and inheritance. 

Mutations are chemical changes in the gene molecule, and since 
chemical stability is not absolute, the puzzle about mutations is not 
so much that they occur as that they occur so infrequently. This ig- 
norance of the causes which determine the directions in which muta- 
tions take place, if such causes indeed exist, is, strange to relate, no 
handicap to the understanding of the mechanism of evolution, because 
it is emphatically selection, not mutation, that determines the direc- 
tion of evolution. This all-important conclusion is based not only on 
detailed experimental studies on the effects of selection in nature, but 
also on the demonstration by Sir Ronald Fisher of a general principle. 
The effects of selection in changing the frequency of genes in a popu- 
lation have been calculated for various percentage benefits in survival 
value conferred by such genes. It has been found by calculation that 
at the observed natural average mutation rate of one in half a million, 
no mutant gene has the slightest chance of maintaining itself against 
even the faintest degree of adverse selection. Furthermore, if the di- 
rection of evolution were determined by the direction of mutation, it 
would be necessary to suppose that such mutations must be predomi- 
nantly favorable. In fact, the vast majority of mutations have been 
unfavorable, and natural selection has acted against them by convert- 
ing the resulting mutant genes into recessives, or by suppressing them 
into the condition of mere modifiers, or by exacting the more drastic 
price of abolition consequent on the rapid death of the organisms 
containing them. It is natural selection, not mutation, that has gov- 
erned the direction as well as the amount of evolution, and it has been 
estimated that if mutation were to stop now, there is already sufficient 
variation in the plant and animal kingdoms for evolution to continue 
for as long in the future as it has continued hitherto in the past. 

The bearing of this demonstration on hypotheses that attempt to 
explain evolution by postulating the existence of agencies capable of 
directing mutation is plain. It means that all such theories as invoke 
the effects of use and disuse, "inheritance of acquired characters," 
environmental stimuli, "organic selection," "inner feelings," inherited 
memory," momentum along particular directions, orthogenesis, nomo- 
genesis, and others, which assume that mutation can be made to follow 



346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

adaptively desirable directions, are not only devoid of any known 
mechanism by which the direction of mutation might be brought about, 
and devoid of evidence for the existence of such mechanisms, but they 
involve a cause "which demonstrably would not work even if it were 
known to exist." It is therefore not surprising that in spite of re- 
peated attempts, many undertaken with impure and insufficiently 
standardized genetic material, and others in which the results were 
simply faked, no evidence has been provided that the effects of use 
and disuse or adaptive response to environmental conditions are in- 
herited or induce appropriate mutations. From the evidence provided 
by genetics, natural selection is the only mechanism capable of ex- 
plaining evolution. 

NATURAL SELECTION, "IMPROBABILITY," AND "CHANCE" 

An argument sometimes used against the efficacy of natural selection 
involves the claim that the initial stages in the evolution of complex 
structures or functions could not have been favored by natural selection 
until such structures or functions had reached a certain level of per- 
fection. Like all other arguments of the non possumus type, this one 
melts away before the progress of knowledge. A case in point is that 
of the electric organs of fish, developed out of muscles which are 
capable of discharges strong enough to catch prey and defend the fish 
against its enemies. These organs are clearly adaptive and confer 
survival value on their possessors, but the question arises what func- 
tions they could perform in the initial stages of their evolution, when it 
must be supposed that their power was too weak to kill prey or to 
deter predators. Darwin himself was well aware of this problem, and 
he met the argument by pointing out that "it would be extremely bold 
to maintain that no serviceable transitions are possible by which these 
organs might have been gradually developed." He has been proved to 
be right, because of the discovery by H. W. Lissm.ann that weak 
electric discharges given off by certain fish function in a manner 
analogous to those of radar equipment, and serve to convey informa- 
tion of the proximity of objects in the water. Electric organs can 
therefore be adaptive even when they are too weak to kill prey or deter 
predators. 

Another case may be cited because it illustrates the manner in which 
an adaptive result may be achieved without itself being a direct object 
of selection. Color vision has been evolved independently in many 
groups of animals. Among the light-sensitive elements in the eye, 
some are specially sensitive in dim illumination ; others confer acute- 
ness of vision in bright light when they are individually innervated, 
with the result that light stimuli are perceived separately by very 
small areas of the retina. In each of the two functions of seeing in 
relative darkness and seeing accurately in the light, increased efficiency 



DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY — DE BEER 347 

confers survival value from the very start of the improvement. But 
when both these functions have been achieved in the same eye a 
mechanism is produced, as E. N. Willmer has indicated, in which the 
visual elements are differentially sensitive to light of different wave- 
lengths, and this is the basis of color vision. The emergence of color 
vision as an unexpected "bonus" resulting from the perfection of two 
other functions is a concrete example of the principle to which Lloyd 
Morgan applied the term "emergent evolution." 

It has also been objected that natural selection is a difficult concept 
to apply to the evolution of very complex adaptations involving co- 
ordinated variations either in one and the same organism, or even in 
two different organisms. It is not necessary to go far afield to find 
examples of this, for in all animals with separate sexes and internal 
fertilization there has been a separate yet harmonious evolution of the 
reproductive organs in the two sexes. It has been supposed that such 
situations argued so high a degree of "mathematical improbability" 
that they could not be explained as a result of natural selection, which 
was, very erroneously, called "chance." To this objection there are 
several answers. 

In the first place, those who invoke mathematical improbability 
against natural selection can be refuted out of their own mouths. 
Muller has estimated that on the existing knowledge of the percentage 
of mutations that are beneficial, and a reasoned estimate of the number 
of mutations that would be necessary to convert an amoeba into a 
horse, based on the average magnitude of the effects of mutations, the 
number of mutations required on the basis of chance alone, if there 
were no natural selection, would be of the order of one thousand raised 
to the power of one million. This impossible and meaningless figure 
serves to illustrate the power of natural selection in collecting favorable 
mutations and minimizing waste of variation, for horses do exist and 
they have evolved. 

It is worth while to study the question of improbability more closely. 
As Fisher has pointed out, improbability has a different aspect when 
considered from time before or time after the event. The probability 
that any man alive today will have sons, grandsons, and successive 
descendants in the male line uninterruptedly for one hundred genera- 
tions is infinitesimally small. Yet every man today is the living 
proof that this contingency, so highly improbable as it may have 
seemed one hundred generations ago, has nevertheless occurred. 
Similarly, the effects of natural selection are the reverse of chance 
when considered ex post facto; they are rigorously determined, and 
what they have done is to channel random variations into adaptive 
directions and thereby simulate the appearance of purposive change. 
This is why natural selection has been paradoxically defined as "a 



348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

mechanism for generating an exceedingly high degree of 
improbability." 

Mention of purpose introduces the notion of teleology or fulfill- 
ment of design which has sometimes been invoked to explain the pro- 
duction of complex adaptations. Teleology and providential guid- 
ance are double-edged weapons with which to attack the problem of 
evolution, because it can be shown that the more detailed the adapta- 
tion, the more "improbable" it may appear as a product of "chance," 
the more likely its possessor is to be doomed to extinction through in- 
ability to become adapted to changed conditions. 

Structures may be developed which at first benefit individuals in 
their competition to survive; but by continued selection such struc- 
tures may become exaggerated and lead to the extinction of the spe- 
cies. This seems to have been what happened to the Imia bird, where 
mated pairs constantly remained in company together, and the beaks 
of the male and female reached an extraordinary disparity of size 
in adaptation to their very special feeding, but failed to enable the 
birds to obtain ordinary food when their special diet was unavailable. 
Excess, even of adaptation, is harmful, and the fossil record shows 
that the vast majority of lines of evolution have led to extinction. 

From the imdoubted fact that many of the products of the plant 
and animal kingdom convey to man the aesthetic quality of beauty, it 
has been supposed that beauty is an end in itself to which the criterion 
of usefulness and survival value could not be applied, and therefore 
that it could not be imagined as a product of evolution. To this argu- 
ment Wallace opposed the demonstration that if the quality of beauty 
were an exception to the principle of evolution by natural selection, it 
would be necessary to find an explanation for the existence of so 
much in plants and animals that is positively ugly. 

Darwin showed it to be an invariable rule that "Wlien a flower is 
fertilised by the wind it never has a gaily-coloured corolla." The 
beauty of flowers has been gradually achieved because of the survival 
value of cross fertilization (consequent upon the attraction of in- 
sects to such flowers) conferred on plants possessing them. The beau- 
tiful colors and structures of birds and some other animals have re- 
sulted from the survival value conferred on successful competitors 
in sexual selection. 

This demonstration of what may be called the natural nature of 
beauty has been developed still further by Ray Lankester in the course 
of a soliloquy on alpine flowers : "All beauty of living things, it seems, 
is due to Nature's selection, and not only all beauty of color and form, 
but that beauty of behavior and excellence of inner quality which 
we call 'goodness.' The fittest, that which has survived and will sur- 
vive in the struggle of organic growth, is (we see it in these flowers) , in 



DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY — de BEER 349 

man's estimation, the beautiful. Is it possible to doubt that just as we 
approve and delightedly revel in the beauty created by 'natural selec- 
tion,' so we give our admiration and reverence, without question, to 
'goodness,' which also is the creation of Nature's great unfolding?" 

In many of the higher animals, parental care and self-sacrifice, in the 
interest of other members of the family such as incubating or gravid 
females and yomig, have been favored by natural selection and con- 
ferred benefit on the species. From earliest human times, the survival 
value of altruistic behavior has been enhanced because of the pro- 
longation of childhood and the consolidation of the family that have 
characterized the evolution of man. The size of the unit witliin which 
altruistic behavior conferred survival value has grown progressively 
larger, but fitfully, as history and anthropology have shown, from the 
family to the clan, the tribe, and the nation. In this manner, ethical 
standards of conduct and morality have arisen which can be seen to 
develop in individuals and have been seen to evolve in societies. Be- 
tween these units, competition on the subhuman level of natural selec- 
tion has persisted. With the development of man's higher mental 
faculties, conscious choice and purposiveness became factors in evolu- 
tion, and for this reason the subsequent evolution of man has been of 
a nature different from that of other organisms because it was no 
longer governed solely by natural selection. 

NATURAL SELECTION IN ACTION 

Natural selection can be seen to be at work here and now in direct- 
ing evolution. Modern techniques of study of genetics in populations 
in the field developed by T. Dobzhansky and E. B. Ford have shown 
that the relative longevities of variants in different enviromnents can 
be directly measured, and that the effects of such differential mortality 
have been to produce evolutionary change. An example of this type 
of research is that of H. B. D. Kettlewell on "industrial melanism" 
in moths. Up to 1850 the British peppered moth existed in its typical 
gray form known as Biston hetularia, which is remarkably well 
adapted to resemble the lichens on the bark of trees. From that date 
a dark melanic variety appeared, known as carhonaria^ which is ex- 
tremely conspicuous against the natural bark of trees. The melanic 
variation is controlled by a single dominant Mendelian gene and is 
slightly more vigorous than the normal gray type. Nevertheless, be- 
cause of its conspicuous color the carbonaria variety was constantly 
eliminated, and this variety persisted in the populations of the 
peppered moth only because the same mutation kept on occurring 
again and again. The industrial revolution brought about a marked 
change in the environment, since the pollution of the air by increasing 
quantities of carbon dust killed the lichens on the trees and rendered 



350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

their trunks and branches black. Under these conditions it is the 
carbonaria variety which is favored and the hetularia penalized. 
This has been proved by direct observation of the feeding of birds, 
and by measurement of the survival rates of the different forms in the 
different environments. The dark carhona7ia form survives 17 per- 
cent less well in an unpolluted area and 10 percent better in a polluted 
area. One hundred years ago the dark variety of the peppered moth 
formed less than 1 percent of the population; today in industrial 
areas it forms 99 percent, and selection has made it more intensively 
black than when it first appeared. 

The case of melanism in the peppered moth also introduces a prin- 
ciple to which L. Cuenot drew attention and gave the name of "pre- 
adaptation." The melanic form of the peppered moth happened to be 
"preadapted" to conditions which were only subsequently realized, or 
in other words, if the industrial revolution had not taken place, the 
melanic variety would never have become adaptive at all, and would 
have suffered the same fate as the countless other mutations resulting 
in variations which, whether "preadapted" or not, have been elimi- 
nated because they fell short of the requirements imposed by natural 
selection. 

The evolutionary change actually witnessed in the peppered moth 
is directly attributable to selection, and it is matched by similar 
studies on other forms. Experiments by A. J. Cain and P. M. Shep- 
pard on the survival rate of snails with shells of different colors and 
banding patterns, living on dark- or light-colored backgrounds, have 
shown that selection does not act like an all-obliterating steamroller 
going in one direction. As the seasons change, the adaptive value of 
the color of a shell changes from disadvantageous to advantageous and 
back again. This proves that the effects of selection vary from place 
to place and from season to season, and that the balance between an 
organism and its environment is delicate, changing, and dynamic. 

The phenomenon of Batesian mimicry has also been proved not 
only to be adaptive and to confer survival value, but to have been 
achieved by selection. Ford has shown that the degree of perfection 
with which the mimics copy their models is a function of the prev- 
alence of the models. The percentage of imperfect mimics in the 
populations of Papilio dardanus is only 4 at places like Entebbe, 
where models are numerous. At Nairobi, on the other hand, where 
the models are 70 times less numerous than at Entebbe, the imperfect 
mimics are 8 times more numerous and constitute 32 percent of the 
population. Less survival value is conferred by resemblance to a 
model when the latter is too infrequent to teach predators to shun it, 
and there is then less selection pressure on the mimic to resemble it. 

While the overriding importance of the effects of selection is now 
generally realized, it has been suggested that when populations are 



DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY — de BEER 351 

split up into very small isolated colonies, changes in the relative fre- 
quencies of different genes might result from the errors of random 
sampling in the formation of the germ cells and their fertilization, 
without involving selection. This concept, advanced by Sewall 
Wright and known as "random genetic drift," has been invoked as a 
possible cause of nonselective, nonadaptive evolution. It has, how- 
ever, been invalidated by the results of experimental studies in the 
field such as those of Fisher and Ford on moths, which have shown that 
selective factors are much more important than casual nonadaptive 
factors in determining the relative frequency of genes and in bringing 
about close adaptation to local environmental conditions. Even in 
comparatively numerous populations, from one generation to the 
next there are fluctuations in gene ratio larger than can be attributed 
to random sampling and which are controlled by selection. Such 
effects as may be due to random sampling in small populations can 
only be of negligible significance in evolution. 

Selection frequently works on a basis of compromise. Among the 
natives of Africa there is a condition known as sickle-cell anemia, in 
which the red blood corpuscles are deformed and shaped like the 
blades of sickles. This is controlled by a Mendelian gene which, when 
inherited from both parents (homozygous) , produces an extreme effect 
which frequently kills the subject by thrombosis. When inherited 
from only one parent (heterozygous), the danger from thrombosis is 
not so great. In areas where malaria is present, however, there is a 
positive advantage in possessing the sickle-cell gene, because the 
malaria parasite cannot enter the abnormal red blood corpuscles. In 
accordance with the prevalence of malaria in the environment, there- 
fore, a balance is automatically struck in the population between the 
danger of dying from malaria if the individual has no sickle-cell gene, 
and the danger of dying of thrombosis if the individual has two sickle- 
cell genes. Survival value and ability to leave more offspring there- 
fore accrue to the possessors of one sickle-cell gene up to a certain 
frequency, and this example shows in what unexpected ways selection 
is able to make the best even of a bad gene complex. 

NATURAL SELECTION AND PALEONTOLOGY 

The paleontological record provides the evidence of the course which 
evolution has followed in the past. The fossil material is in places 
now so rich that it can be used for quantitative studies in evolution. 
First, the radioactive time clocks enable various levels of evolutionary 
lineage to be dated and the time measured during which certain 
changes have occurred. This provides quantitative evidence of evolu- 
tion rates. From such data estimates can be obtained of the duration 
times of genera and species. Statistical study of large samples of 
fossil materials enables the variability of the different species to be 



352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

assessed. By methods such as these, G. G. Simpson has worked out 
that the evolution from Hyracotherium to Equus occupied 60 million 
years. This involved passage through 8 genera, the duration of each 
being on the average 7.5 million years ; 30 species of a duration time of 
2 million years each; and 15 million generations each reaching ma- 
turity in 4 years. These data can be compared with those obtained 
from other groups of animals, from wliich they differ considerably. 
The results show that evolution rate is not correlated with variability, 
nor with generation time, and that it is selection that controls the 
direction and intensity of evolution. 

These results are all the more important because in the past some 
paleontologists, unequipped with knowledge of modern genetics, have 
imagined that, from tracing the course of evolution in the lineage of 
fossils which they established, they were in a position to draw con- 
clusions about the cause of such evolution. Some have thought that 
they had found support for the inheritance of acquired characters, al- 
though they knew nothing about inheritance ; others imagined that as 
the lineage of some fossils showed linear progression of certain char- 
acters, they were justified in concluding that evolution involved an 
innate directional component, an expression of "momentmn" leading 
to evolution in "straight lines," which they called orthc^enesis. They 
failed to realize that if selection in a particular direction benefits an 
organism, continued selection in the same direction will, up to a certain 
point, benefit it further. Others again have concluded from their ma- 
terials that a distinction in principle could be made out between "big" 
evolution leading to large evolutionary changes, and "small" evolution 
producing trifling results. None of these speculations can stand up 
to the evidence that selection determines the course of evolution, its 
speed or its slowness, the greatness or smallness of the effects produced, 
and its direction, which if constant for any length of time simulates 
orthogenesis. 

It is of interest to consider how far it is possible to extrapolate the 
results of modern genetics into the paleontological past. C R. Diver 
has shown that in snails the patterns of banding found today were 
already in existence in Pleistocene times. It is necessary, however, 
to beware of concluding that because characters are similar they must 
be controlled by the same genes. Even in one and the same species 
today, the gene complex can undergo permutations which reproduce 
the same structures with different genes. An example is provided 
by the gene "eyeless" in Drosophila which produces flies with very 
small or no eyes ; this is, of course, extremely harmful. Eyeless flies 
can, however, be made to breed, and although the mortality is very 
high, progeny can be reared which after a few generations have eyes 
like normal flies. In such a stock the "eyeless" gene is nevertheless 
present unaltered, as can be proved by mating these flies with normal 



DARWm-WALLACE CENTENARY — DE BEER 353 

flies, when the effects of the "eyeless" gene manifest themselves in all 
their force, though in the second generation, because "eyeless" is reces- 
sive. This result is therefore in perfect accordance with the principle 
that Mendelian genes do not become contaminated. What has hap- 
pened during the inbreeding of "eyeless" flies is that the reshuffling 
of the other genes has produced a gene complex in which the harmful 
effects of "eyeless" have been suppressed. 

The gene complex is therefore a dynamic system, as S. C. Harland 
concluded from his researches on cotton. Genes compete, i.e., are 
selected in the gene complex, old genes being dropped and new genes 
incorporated. During the course of evolution the effective member- 
ship of the gene complex must have changed, and it is not legitimate 
to conclude that because a character or a structure like the eye of 
vertebrates was in existence 400 million years ago, it was then con- 
trolled by the same genes as control it now. The evidence is entirely 
opposed to such a static view. It is precisely because the gene com- 
plexes change that characters, structures, and organisms have evolved. 

THE NEW SYSTEMATICS AND THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES 

The researches on industrial melanism in the peppered moth, band- 
ing and color of snails, mimicry in butterflies, local adaptation in 
moths, and sickle cell in man, which have here been briefly described, 
are examples of new techniques of experimental study of evolution in 
the field. They have grown out of what Julian Huxley has aptly 
called "The New Systematics," to which he has himself contributed 
so much. Systematics, the study of species and of the higher groups 
of classification, began by the recognition of differences between 
species, defined from type specimens preserved in museums. But with 
the realization that species now or in the past are or were populations 
of live plants and animals in nature, living under varying conditions 
of equilibrium with each other and with the inorganic factors of the 
environments — themselves showing geographical variation in space, 
and undergoing variation in time, subject to mutation and recombi- 
nation of their genes, constantly under the influence of selection — 
species can no longer be considered as static milestones of evolution, 
for they are themselves the dynamic systems by which the roads of 
evolution are trodden. As genes mutate and are reshuffled, and geo- 
graphical races invade new ecological niches, advance and retreat, 
it is already possible on a map to mark out lines of gene flow, as R. C. 
Stebbins has suggested from his researches on Californian newts. It 
may become possible to plot the areas of gene complex alteration, as 
can to a certain extent already be done for the origin of cultivated 
plants such as wheat ; but such maps will be continually changing, like 
the species themselves. 



354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN rNSTITUTION, 1958 

Nobody would have welcomed these developments of biological 
science more than Darwin himself, as a glance at the last few pages 
of "The Origin of Species" will show. It is therefore appropriate 
to return to the problem with which this article began. As is now 
certain, species are not immutable but have undergone change, and 
many examples have been given above. Evolution can take place 
up to a point without the production of new species, but if this process 
continues the time must come when new species originate, and it is 
legitimate to ask whether modern research has revealed any evidence 
of this. The answer is that new species can be seen originating in 
nature here and now, and new species have been artificially produced 
in the laboratory. 

Speciation takes place when, for various reasons, populations cease 
to breed with neighboring populations and, under different conditions 
of selection, accumulate heritable variations by mutation and recom- 
bination of genes in different directions. As E. Mayr has shown, 
some form of biological isolation between portions of populations is 
a necessary condition for divergence leading to the formation of new 
species and higher groups. 

Among the kinds of isolation that are chiefly responsible for the 
origination of species, geographical isolation is the most important; 
it involves physical barriers such as oceans, mountain ranges, or 
deserts which separate whole populations. Geographical races are 
the chief raw materials from which new species are formed, and it 
was the different finches on the different Galapagos Islands which 
first suggested to Darwin that evolution had occurred. Here, to 
various extents, geographical isolation has assisted the origination 
of a number of species. 

A case in which geographical isolation may be expected to produce 
its effects at almost any moment now is provided by the gulls. These 
birds occupy a zone shaped like a ring around the North Pole and 
form what B. Eensch has called a chain of races. Starting with the 
British lesser black-backed gull, with its dark mantle and yellow legs, 
tliis is found to grade into the Scandinavian lesser black-backed gull, 
and, continuing in an easterly direction around the chain, this in 
turn grades into the Siberian Vega gull with its lighter mantle and 
dull flesh-colored legs. The Siberian gull grades into the American 
herring gull, which in turn grades into the British herring gull, with 
its light mantle and pinkish legs. Although the British lesser black- 
backed gull may be regarded as belonging to the same species as all 
the other gulls in the chain to the east of it, when it is compared 
with the other end of the chain represented by the British herring 
gull the tw© may almost be regarded as separate species. Already 
they differ not only in color but in habits, for the latter nests on 
cliffs and is dispersive in winter, whereas the former breeds inland 



DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY — DE BEER 355 

on moors and is migratory in winter. If at any time the chain be- 
comes severed by the erection of a sterility barrier at any point, either 
through inability to breed or through a rupture of the chain by local 
extinction of the gull population, the two British gulls will effectively 
have originated new species. 

Geograpliical isolation is important for the origin of species of 
plants as well as of animals, but there is another form of isolation 
which appears to be restricted to plants and involves the sudden erec- 
tion of sterility barriers between individuals in the same population 
as a result of changes in the chromosome mechanism. This is known 
as genetic isolation. "When Primula verticillata is crossed with Pri- 
mula -floribunda^ hybrid offspring are produced, but they are sterile 
because the chromosomes of one parent species are incompatible 
with those of the other, and the intricate machinery involved in the 
formation of germ cells is thrown out of gear. Occasionally, how- 
ever, the hybrid plant undergoes doubling of its chromosomes, a 
condition known as polyploidy, and when that has occurred the 
hybrid is able to breed with hybrids similar to itself because all the 
chromosomes have compatible partners, but it is sterile in respect 
to both parent species. Furthermore, the hybrid is not only true 
breeding but is different in structure and in habit from each of its 
parent species. It therefore fulfills all the criteria of a species and 
has been called Primula hewensis. Many other new species have 
originated by intentional hybridization and accidental polyploidy in 
this way. Some of these artificially produced species have been found 
to be identical with, and to breed with, wild species, and this is the 
proof that tliis method of species formation occurs in nature. 

THE CENTENARY OF EVOLUTION BY NATURAL SELECTION 

In conclusion, it may be said that during the hundred years that 
have elapsed since Darwin and Wallace first published their theory, 
the fact of organic evolution is now universally accepted and its 
mechanism has been formally explained. 

The alternative to evolution is so naive that it comes as a shock to 
realize that as recently as one hundred years ago, ideas such as called 
for the following questions could still be current: "Do they really 
believe that at innumerable periods in the earth's history certain 
elemental atoms have been commanded suddenly to flash into living 
tissues? Do they believe that at each supposed act of creation one 
individual or many were produced ? Were all the infinitely numerous 
kinds of animals and plants created as eggs or seeds, or as full 
grown? And in the case of mammals, were they created bearing 
the false marks of nourishment from the mother's womb?" Darwin 
might well allow himself to ask these questions, for he and Wallace 
had found the answer to them. 



356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

So soundly was the theory of evolution by natural selection 
grounded that research does nothing but confirm the links in its 
chain of evidence and the inferences to be drawn from them. Its 
field has extended from the explanation of the production of plants 
and animals to every aspect of the intellectual life of man, and it 
would be imprudent to doubt that its greatest triumph may yet lie in 
the highest aspect of that life. Some persons have attempted to 
discredit natural selection, on the grounds that being a destructive 
agent it camiot produce anything new or make the fit fitter. Such 
persons have only demonstrated that they have neither understood 
the problem nor studied "The Origin of Species," in which Darwin 
carefully pointed out that "several writers have misapprehended or 
objected to the term 'Natural Selection.' Some have even imagined 
that natural selection induces variability, whereas it implies only the 
preservation of such variations as arise and are beneficial to the 
being mider its conditions of life." Variation produces novelties at 
random, but selection determines which are preserved. Only a genius 
could have discovered a key of such simplicity to so great a problem. 
Only ignorance, neglect of truth, or prejudice could actuate those 
who, in the present state of knowledge, without discovering new 
facts in the laboratory or in the field, seek to impugn the scientific 
evidence for evolution. 

With such new formulations as may be required, the concept of 
evolution by natural selection continues and will continue to provide 
what Darwin hoped when he wrote in 1837 in his Notebook: "My 
theory would give zest to recent and fossil comparative anatomy; it 
would lead to the study of instincts, heredity and mind ... to closest 
examination of hybridity — to what circumstances favour crossing 
and what prevents it — and generation, causes of change in order 
to know what we have come from and to what we tend. This and 
direct examination of direct passages of structure of species, might 
lead to laws of change, which would then be the main object of study, 
to guide our speculations." 

With the same confidence as it accepts Copernicus's demonstration 
of the movement of the earth around the sun and Newton's formula- 
tion of the laws of this movement, science can now celebrate the 
centenary of the first general principle to be discovered applicable to 
the entire realm of living beings. 



DARWIN-WALLACE CENTENARY — DE BEER 357 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

GENERAL WORKS 

[1] Dabwin, Charles. Sketch written in 1842, and Essay written in 1844. 
Dabwin, Chables, and Wallace, Alfred Russel. On the tendency of 
species to form varieties ; and on the perpetuation of varieties and of 
species by natural means of selection, 1858. Reprinted in Evolution 'by 
Natural Selection. Foreword by Sir Gavin de Beer. Cambridge. 1958. 
(2) Dabwin, Charles. The origin of species (6th ed., 1872). Introduction by 

Sir Gavin de Beer. Oxford University Press, London. 1956. 
[3] Journal of researches by Charles Darwin into the natural history and 
geology of the countries visited during the voyage of H.M.S. Beagle. 
London. 1845. Reprints, with introduction by Sir Gavin de Beer. 
Cambridge. 1956. 
[4] Charles Darwin's diary of the voyage of H.M.S. Beagle. Nora Barlow, 

ed. Cambridge. 1934. 
[5] Charles Darwin and the voyage of the Beagle. Nora Barlow, ed. London. 

1945. 
[6] Evolution. Essays on aspects of evolutionary biology. G. R. de Beer, ed. 

Oxford. 1938. 
[7] Evolution (Symposia of the Society for Experimental Biology). Cambridge. 

1953. 
[8] Evolution as a process. Julian Huxley, A. C. Hardy, and E. B. Ford. eds. 

London. 1954. 
[9] The new systematics. Julian Huxley, ed. Oxford. 1940. 
[10] Cabteb, G. S. a hundred years of evolution. London. 1957. 
[11] de Beer, G. R. Embryos and ancestors. Oxford. 1958. 
[12] Dobzhanskt, T. Genetics and the origin of species. New York. 1937. 
[13] Dablington, C. D. The facts of life. London. 19.53. 

[14] FiSHEB, R. A. The genetical theory of natural selection. Oxford. 1930. 
[15] Ford, E. B. Mendelism and evolution. London. 1957. 
[16] HtrxLET, Julian. Evolution: the modern synthesis. London. 1942. 
[17] Idem. Evolution in action. London. 1953. 
[18] Clark, W. E. le Gros. History of the primates. London. 1956. 
[19] Mayr, E. Systematics and the origin of species. New York. 1942. 
[20] Oakley, K. P. Man the tool-maker. Loudon. 1956. 

[21] Oakley, K. P., and Muib-Wood, H. M. The succession of life through geo- 
logical time. London. 1956. 
[22] Rensch, B. Neuere Probleme der Abstammungslehre. Stuttgart. 1954. 
[23] Simpson, G. G. The major features of evolution. New York. 1953. 
[24] Stebbings, J. L. Variation and evolution in plants. New York. 1950. 
[25] Waddington, C. H. Strategy of genes. London. 1957. 



Does Natural Selection Continue to Operate 
in Modern Mankind?' 



By Theodosius Dobzhansky 
Professor of Zoology, Columbia University 

and 

Gordon Allen 

New York State Psychiatric Institute 



THE PROBLEM 



The purpose of the present article is to examine the validity of the 
assertion, frequently made in medical, biological, and sociological 
writings, that natural selection has been relaxed or even done away 
with altogether in modern mankind, particularly in advanced indus- 
trial societies. With this assertion as a premise, dire predictions of 
biological decadence of the human species have been uttered, espe- 
cially in popular scientific literature. It is of course not our intention 
in this article to grapple with this immense problem in its entirety, 
and we mean neither to affirm nor to refute the predictions of de- 
cadence. We feel, however, that the thinking in this field may gain 
in clarity from a reexamination of the concepts of natural selection 
and adaptation, particularly as they apply to man. Such a reexami- 
nation is the more needed since these concepts have not remained stable 
even in biology since they were advanced by Darwin. Particularly 
rapid change has taken place in recent years in connection with the 
development of population genetics. 

Natural selection is regarded in modem biology as the directing 
agent of organic evolution. The process of mutation yields the genetic 
variants which are the raw materials of evolutionary change. Sexual 
reproduction then gives rise to innumerable gene combinations or 
genotypes. However, which mutants arise, and when, have nothing 
to do with their possible usefulness or harmfulness to the species. 
Natural selection, nevertheless, so maneuvers the genetic variability 
that living species become fitted to their habitats and to their modes 



1 Reprinted by permission from American Anthropologist, vol. 58, No. 4, August 1956. 
492520—59 24 359 



360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTTON, 1958 

of life. Organic evolution consists of a succession of threatened losses 
and recapturings of the adaptedness of living matter to its environ- 
ment. But the environment does not change the genotype of a living 
species directly, as some evolutionists of the past have wrongly as- 
sumed. The role of the environment consists rather in that it con- 
stantly presents challenges to the species; to these challenges the 
species may respond either by adaptive modification or by extinction. 

It would be an exaggeration to sstj that the above view of the evolu- 
tionary process is universally accepted. Few biological theories really 
are. However, the importance of natural selection, at least as an 
agent which guards against degenerative changes in populations, is 
denied by scarcely anyone. We need not labor the point that the 
evolution of the ancestors of the human species was brought about 
by the operation of the same fundamental biological processes which 
act elsewhere in the living world. A new situation has arisen with 
the advent of the human phase. Species other than man become 
adapted to their environment by changing their genes. In man, the 
adaptation to the environment occurs in part through development 
and modification of his learned tradition and culture. Man is able 
to adapt by changing either his genes or his culture, or both. 

Another innovation has also occurred in the evolutionary pattern 
of the human species. Owing to the protection conferred upon cer- 
tain weaker genotj'^pes by civilization, natural selection against these 
genotypes has become weakened or removed. Individuals and popu- 
lations which would die out under allegedly "natural" conditions 
survive and procreate in civilized societies. A large share of the 
blame for this interference with "normal" evolutionary processes is 
laid at the door of modern medicine. Although man possesses meth- 
ods of adaptation which are peculiar to his species, he is still subject 
to general biological laws. Biological evolutionary processes operate 
in the human species within the unique evolutionary pattern condi- 
tioned by human intellectual powers; yet it would certainly be a 
dangerous matter to abolish the controlling influence of the processes 
of selection. 

STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE AND SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST 

According to Darwin's own testimony, the theory of natural selec- 
tion was suggested to him in 1838, when he "happened to read for 
amusement" Malthus's "Essay on the Principles of Population." Any 
living species is able to multiply in geometric progression, and hence 
to increase in numbers until it outgrows its food supply. In reality 
this happens quite rarely, and populations of most species are stable 
within relatively narrow limits. The causes which bring about the 
relative constancy of numbers are by no means well known even at 



NATURAL SELECTION — DOBZHANSKY AND ALLEN 361 

present (see Andrewartha and Birch, 1955, and Lack, 1954, for rele- 
vant information). 

Nineteenth-century authors said simply that excessive production 
of progeny was balanced by wholesale destruction in the "struggle for 
existence," in which "famine, war, and pestilence" were the principal 
factors. Actually, things are more complex. Thus, with many 
species of birds, the number of eggs in a clutch is such that under 
average environmental conditions the greatest number of young sur- 
vives to maturity. Larger clutches produce fewer, not more, sur- 
vivors, since the parents are unable to take proper care of their 
brood. Among insects, starving females or females that develop 
from underfed larvae deposit fewer eggs than do well-fed females. 
Scarcity of food, destruction by predators, disease, unfavorable 
weather conditions, and accidents of every kind are all involved. One 
or more of these factors may occasionally be decisive in different 
species or at different times and places in the same species. Struggle, 
in the sense of actual combat, is a rare occurrence among members 
of the same species, although it doubtless exists. To give just one 
example : adults and larvae of ladybird beetles, which normally feed 
as predators on other insects, resort to cannibalism when the food is 
scarce. 

Destruction of a large proportion of the progeny certainly does 
not by itself guarantee that natural selection will take place. The 
contrary may be the case. Wlien death or survival and production 
or nonproduction of offspring are due mainly to chance, large-scale 
destruction actually hampers selection for anything except fecundity. 
Selection as an evolutionary force is most effective where each in- 
dividual's success or failure in life is a consequence of his over-all 
excellence or imperfection. In precisely this situation, most nearly 
approached by higher animals, the number of young produced is 
usually small and survival rates are high (Schmalhausen, 1949). 

To put it simply, in order to be effective natural selection must be 
selective. On the average, survivors must be better fitted to live 
than nonsurvivors. The survivors must be stronger, or more intelli- 
gent, or better able to get along on little food, or more resistant to 
weather, or better able to escape from diseases, parasites, or preda- 
tors. But not even all these virtues combined will improve the qual- 
ity of the progeny unless the fitness of the survivors and the unfit- 
ness of the nonsurvivors are due to their genes. This proviso is 
obviously most important in human evolution. In man, individual 
and group success is often due to better means rather than to better 
genes. 

Natural selection is, then, brought about by the survival of the 
genetically fit, not of the genetically fittest. Spencer's "survival of 
the fittest" was an effective slogan in the struggle for acceptance of 



362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

the evolution theory. But the rhetorical superlative misrepresents the 
actual situation by overstating the ferocity of the struggle for exist- 
ence. Nietzschean superman is biologically a dubious fomidation on 
which to build the future of the species. In nature, even under most 
stringent conditions, the survivors are usually fairly numerous and 
possess a variety of genetic equipment. Without going into the de- 
tails of this matter, it can be stated that too severe a selection is likely 
to be less effective than a moderate one, because severe selection tends 
to deplete too soon the reserves of genetic variability. 

REPRODUCTIVE SUCCESS 

The version of the theory of natural selection which invokes sur- 
vival of the fittest in the competitive struggle for life was remark- 
ably well suited to the intellectual climate of Darwin's times. It has 
often been pointed out (e.g., Barzun, 1941) that the popularity of 
Darwinism had more to do wdth the social and political implications 
which some people read into the theory than with its scientific va- 
lidity. Those who believed that limitless progress will inevitably re- 
sult from unrestricted competition of private entei-prise were beguiled 
to learn that their economic views fomid support in a universal law 
of nature. With colonial empires in the expansion stage, it was a 
comforting thought that the exploitation of the weak by the strong 
was merely a part of "the stern discipline of nature which eliminates 
the unfit." An eminent anthropologist was able to advocate with- 
holding education from most people, in order that competition might 
occur under "natural" conditions. This "social Darwinism" continues 
to exist even today, and it has recently been given a modern biologi- 
cal dress by Darlington (1953). 

With the development of genetics, and particularly of population 
genetics, the theory of natural selection has been recast in a more 
exact, though emotionally less impressive form. Consider a popula- 
tion of a sexually reproducing and cross-fertilizing species, such as 
man. A Mendelian population of this sort consists of individuals 
which differ from one another in certain genes. The population has a 
gene pool, in which different gene variants are represented with dif- 
ferent frequencies. Now, in any one generation, the carriers of the 
different genes are likely to make unequal average contributions 
to the gene pool of the next generation. Therefore, the gene fre- 
quencies in the gene pool will change from generation to generation. 
Some genes will be perpetuated at rates greater than their alternative 
genes. The former are, then, favored by selection, and the latter are 
discriminated against. The genes which are selected for may 
eventually be established in the population, while those selected 
against may be lost. 



NATURAL SELECTION — DOBZHANSKY AND ALLEN 363 

Selection consists in differential perpetuation of genetic variants 
in the gene pool of a population. Selective success is reproductive 
success. The Darwinian fitness, or adaptive value of a genotype, is 
measured by the mean contribution of the carriers of this genotype, 
relative to other genotypes, to the gene pool of the succeeding gen- 
erations. The highly tit genotypes are those which transmit their 
genes most efficiently; the less fit ones have a mediocre reproductive 
efficiency ; the unfit ones leave no surviving and fertile progeny. 

Under this sober appraisal, the "fittest" is nothing more spectacular 
than a parent of the largest family. He is no longer the mighty 
conqueror who has subdued countless competitors in mortal combat. 
He need not necessarily be even particularly hale and hearty ; strength 
and toughness increase Darwinian fitness only insofar as they con- 
tribute to reproductive success. Mules are at least as vigorous and 
resistant to harsh conditions as their parents, horses and donkeys. 
But the Darwinian fitness of mules is zero, because of their sterility. 
Converselj^, a hereditary disease which strikes after the close of the 
reproductive period does not diminish the adaptive value of the geno- 
type. An example of this is Huntington's chorea. This is a dominant 
disease due to a single gene, the incapacitating effects of which do not 
usually appear until its carrier has passed most or all of the reproduc- 
tive period. There has even been a suspicion that the carriers of this 
gene have on the average a greater number of children than their 
normal siblings. The infirmities of old age are easily accounted for 
by the theory of natural selection. What happens to the organism 
after the reproductive age is of no concern to natural selection, or 
only insofar as the condition in old age is correlated with some traits 
which appear during the reproductive age. In a social organism 
like man, natural selection may, however, control survival in later 
years, because what happens to the older members of the family or 
community also affects the welfare of its younger members. The 
tendency of this control might be to shorten the interval between the 
close of the reproductive period and death because, as Haldane has 
pointed out, in some societies the oldsters prove a useless drain on the 
resources of the group. But comparison of the postreproductive years 
in man with those in other primates would probably show that the net 
effect of selection has been to lengthen this period. 

The question whether modern man is subject to natural selection 
can now be answered. He certainly is. Natural selection would cease 
only if all human genotypes produced numbers of surviving children 
in exact proportion to the frequencies of these genotypes in the popu- 
lation. This does not, and never did, occur in recorded history. 
Quite apart from the hereditary diseases and malformations for which 
no remedies are known and which decrease the reproductive fitness, 



364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

the inhabitants of different parts of the world have different 
reproductive rates. 

The selective forces which now act on the human species are natural, 
rather than artificial, selection. It is of course conceivable that natural 
selection may some day be replaced by artificial selection. Indeed, 
"To replace natural selection by other processes that are more mer- 
ciful and not less effective" (Galton) was the original theme of 
eugenics. To make this dream a reality, the contributions which 
various genotypes made to the gene pool of the next generation would 
have to be decided on the basis of genetic considerations either by 
parents themselves or by some outside authority. An alternative 
idea has been developed, especially by Osborn (1951) ; instead of 
substituting artificial selection for natural selection, he suggests a 
reorganization of social and economic institutions so that natural selec- 
tion could be relied upon to favor intelligence and social adaptability. 

The frequent allegation that the selective processes in the human 
species are no longer "natural" is due to persistence of the obsolete 
19th-century concept of "natural" selection. Tlie error of this view 
is made clear when we ask its proponents such questions as, why 
should the "surviving fittest" be able to withstand cold and in- 
clement weather without the benefit of fire and clothing? Is it not 
ludicrous to expect selection to make us good at defending ourselves 
against wild beasts when wild beasts are getting to be so rare that it 
is a privilege to see one outside of a zoo? Is it necessary to eliminate 
everyone who has poor teeth when our dentists stand ready to provide 
us with artificial ones ? Is it a great virtue to be able to endure pain 
when anesthetics are available ? 

The words "fitness" and "adaptedness" are meaningless except in 
relation to some environment. Natural selection involves interaction 
between the genotype and the environment, and this interaction leads 
to furtherance of congruity between the interacting entities. For 
this reason, organic evolution has on the whole been adaptive. It 
is, nevertheless, a function of an imperfect world. One of its limita- 
tions is that it is opportunistic. Selection enhances the adaptedness of 
genotypes only to the currently existing environments. Therefore, 
the direction and the intensity of natural selection are as changeable 
as the environment. Selection in modern man cannot maintain our 
fitness for the conditions of the Old Stone Age, nor can it prepare us 
for novel conditions of the distant future except by increasing our 
general adaptability. 

Man's environments are decisively influenced by his cultural devel- 
opments. For good or for ill, natural selection fits man to live in 
the environments created by his own culture and technology. In 
these environments, the ability to subsist on uncooked foods is prob- 
ably now less important than it once was ; the ability to resist certain 



NATURAL SELECTION — DOBZHANSKY AND ALLEN 365 

infections prevalent in crowded towns is probably more important 
than it was. So is the ability to learn, to become educated, and to 
live in reasonable accommodation with one's neighbors. Natural 
selection now works in what some may call unnatural conditions, but 
it is still natural selection. 

RELAXATION OF SELECTION 

The hoary fallacy which is perpetuated by some modern writers 
is that for a genetic variation to be selected it must be important 
enough to decide between the life and death of the creature. In 
reality, even a slight advantage or disadvantage which increases 
the probability of one genotype leaving more offspring than another 
will be effective in the long run. It has recently been found (Aird, 
Bentall, Mehigan, and Roberts, 1954) that the proportion of people 
with blood group O is slightly higher among patients suffering from 
duodenal ulcer than it is in the general population. This does not 
mean either that everybody with O blood gets a duodenal ulcer, or 
that those with other blood groups are immune. But the possibility 
that the frequencies of O bloods in human populations may be in- 
fluenced by the greater susceptibility of O persons to duodenal ulcer 
is a real one. 

The fitness, the adaptive capacity of the carriers of a given geno- 
type is continuously changing. Suppose that the contribution of one 
genotype to the gene pool of the following generation is equal to unity. 
The contribution of a different genotype may then be represented as 
1 — s. The value s is the difference in reproductive success between the 
two genotypes and is called the selection coefficient. Now, the magni- 
tude of the selection coefficient depends upon the environment. Selec- 
tion coefficients grow larger as selection becomes more stringent and 
they diminish as selection is relaxed. When s is zero, the genotypes 
are equal in fitness, and selection does not operate upon them. 

There can be no doubt that modern technology, and especially 
modem medicine, have greatly mitigated the disadvantages of many 
genetic weaknesses and disabilities: In other words, in an environ- 
ment which includes modern technology and medicine, selection coeffi- 
cients operating against certain human genotypes are smaller than 
in a primitive environment. But this amounts to saying that the 
fitness of the carriers of these genotypes has increased. A person 
afflicted with hereditary diabetes mellitus can live reasonably happily 
and may even raise a family if his environment includes proper doses 
of insulin administered at proper intervals. Genetically considered, 
a disability that can be corrected by environmental means so that it 
no longer causes an impairment of reproductive efficiency ceases to 
be a disability when a suitable environment is provided. 



366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

This reasoning applies also to any relaxation of selection that may 
result from sociological progress. There is supposed to exist a danger 
of loss or "erosion" of genes for high intelligence, owing to the higher 
reproductive rates of the social classes in which such genes are sup- 
posedly rare. Cook (1951, p. 260) describes this danger in the fol- 
lowing way: 

As this process continues . . . the average level of intelligence and the pro- 
portion of gifted individuals decline. Should the feeble-minded level be 
reached, most of the plus-genes will have been eliminated. But before that 
time growing inefficiency and incompetence would cause the collapse of modern 
industrial society. The Dark Ages which spread over Europe with the fall of 
Rome were a cultural blackout that lasted for a thousand years. The Dark 
Ages which would be caused by continued gene erosion could last five to ten 
times as long. 

It would not be appropriate here to discuss how far this eschatology 
is justified by available evidence. It should, however, be pointed out 
that the fearsome process, if it actually occurs, means that in our 
society high intelligence decreases the average biological fitness of its 
possessors, while less intelligent people tend to be more fit. This 
appalling circumstance would be due not to the cessation of natural 
selection, but to the relative intensification of selection for personality 
traits other than intelligence. It would be unfortunate only insofar 
as the most favored genotypes gave rise to certain characteristics 
which could be regarded as undesirable on other grounds. If the 
humble and the meek inherit the earth, it will mean simply that 
under social conditions which obtain in modern industrial civilizations 
humility and meekness are favored by natural selection, while pride 
and egotism are discriminated against. 

It should be noted that relaxation of natural selection does not by 
itself change the genetic composition of populations ; it does so only 
in conjunction with mutation. The process of mutation constantly 
and irresistibly generates genetic variations, and most of the mutants 
are deleterious to the organism. Increase of mutation rates would, 
then, lower the fitness of the population even if the selection pressure 
remained constant. But the relaxation of selection would necessarily 
mean that the "bad" genes will have become rather less dreadful than 
they were. 

SELECTION AND ADAPTEDNESS 

More than half a century ago, in the heat of polemics, Weissmann 
wrote about the "omnipotence of natural selection." This unfortu- 
nate exaggeration is not wholly absent in the writings of some modern 
authors. Natural selection is a remarkable enough phenomenon, since 
it is the sole method known at present which begets adaptedness to 
the environment in living matter. But it has its limitations. As 
pointed out above, it is opportmiistic and lacking in foresight. More- 



NATURAL SELECTION — DOBZHANSKY AND ALLEN 367 

over, any genotype which possesses a higher net reproductive efficiency 
has a higher Darwinian fitness, and is, by definition, favored by 
natural selection. Higher Darwinian fitness usually goes together 
with superior adaptedness to the environment ; however, the correla- 
tion is not perfect. 

A single example will suffice to illustrate the occasional miscarriages 
of natural selection. Dunn (1953) found a recessive gene in the 
house mouse which is lethal when homozygous. A population of mice 
in which this gene occurs in a certain proportion of individuals pro- 
duces, then, some inviable embryos. The gene is clearly deleterious. 
But this gene possesses the curious property that a male which is 
heterozygous for it and for its normal allele yields more spermatozoa 
carrying the abnormal than the normal gene. This automatically 
confers upon the abnormal gene an advantage in the population, and 
causes it to spread until its lethal effect in homozygotes checks its 
propensity to increase in frequency. Dunn has found that the lethal 
is actually common in many "normal" mouse populations, outside of 
genetic laboratories. Up to a point, therefore, natural selection 
favors the spread of a lethal gene in mouse populations because this 
gene happens to be able to subvert the male reproductive processes in 
its own favor. The reproductive success of a genotype is, in this case, 
opposed to adaptive success of the population. 

This discrepancy between reproductive and adaptive success arises 
because the former has but one dimension : the rate of perpetuation 
of a gene from generation to generation relative to that of an alter- 
native gene. Adaptation is multidimensional, and herein lie some 
unresolved problems about natural selection, particularly as it occurs 
in the human species. The pioneers of Darwinism were already aware 
that, in a social animal, the qualities which promote success in an 
individual are not necessarily those which are most useful to the 
society in which the individual lives. A gene for altruism (if such 
existed) might be discriminated against by natural selection on the 
individual level, but favored on the population level. The outcome 
of selection would, therefore, be difficult to predict. One might specu- 
late that it would depend on the population structure of the species. 
A gene for altruism might be lost in large undivided populations, but 
might become frequent in a species subdivided into numerous compet- 
ing colonies or tribes. Moreover, adaptedness to a certain environ- 
ment, however perfect, need not go together with adaptability to 
changeable environments (flexibility, according to Thoday, 1953). 
For example, it is to be expected that of all the genotypes which are 
successful in times of abundant food supply, relatively few will be 
adaptable to periodic starvation ; genotypes which can resist a large 
variety of infections are not necessarily the most successful ones in 
disease-free environments. 



368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

It can be granted that some genotypes which were being eliminated 
mider primitive conditions are enabled to survive and to perpetuate 
themselves in civilized environments. As pointed out above, this 
necessarily means that the Darwinian fitness of these genotypes under 
civilized conditions has risen relative to what it was under primitive 
ones. The possessors of such genotypes, if they take proper care of 
themselves, may even be able to secure their share of the joy of living. 
Does it follow, however, that these genotypes may now be considered 
desirable in the human species ? The answer may, unfortunately, be 
in the negative. Muller (1950) has portrayed the state of mankind 
which might result from failure to eliminate weakening mutant genes 
in the following way : 

This means that despite all the improved methods and facilities which will be 
in use at that time the population will nevertheless be undergoing as much 
genetic extinction as it did under the most primitive conditions. In corre- 
spondence with this, the amount of genetically caused impairment suffered by 
the average individual, even though he has all the techniques of civilization 
working to mitigate it, must by that time have grown to be as great in the 
presence of these techniques as it had been in paleolithic times without them. 
But instead of people's time and energy being mainly spent in the struggle with 
external enemies of a primitive kind such as famine, climatic difficulties and 
wild beasts, they would be devoted chiefly to the effort to live carefully, to spare 
and to prop up their own feeblenesses, to soothe their inner disharmonies and, 
in general, to doctor themselves as effectively as possible. For everyone would 
be an invalid, with his own special familial twists. 

The outlook seems grim. Natural selection under civilized condi- 
tions may lead mankind to evolve toward a state of genetic overspeciali- 
zation for living in gadget-ridden environments. It is certainly up 
to man to decide whether this direction of his evolution is or is not 
desirable. If it is not, man has, or soon will have, the knowledge 
requisite to redirect the evolution of his species pretty much as he sees 
fit. Perhaps we should not be too dogmatic about this choice of direc- 
tion. We may be awfully soft compared to paleolithic men when 
it comes to struggling, unaided by gadgets, with climatic difficulties 
and wild beasts. Most of us feel most of the time that this is not a 
very great loss. If our remote descendants grow to be even more effete 
than we are, they may conceivably be compensated by acquiring geno- 
types conducive to kindlier dispositions and greater intellectual capaci- 
ties than those prevalent in mankind today. 

SELECTION OF WHOLE GENOTYPES 

The propensity of evolution to produce unfavorable changes in 
plants and animals may at first sight appear astonishing. Consider 
the absurd difficulty which the human female has in giving birth to her 
young. Here is a process which is assuredly essential for the perpetua- 
tion of the species. Natural selection could be expected to make it 



NATURAL SELECTION — DOBZHANSKY AND ALLEN 369 

pleasant, or at least painless. Instead, childbirth is attended with 
intense pain, and often imperils the life of the mother, of the fetus, 
or of both. Although the later stages of pregnancy and parturition 
are to some extent incapacitating in all mammalian females, they are 
much more so in the human species. This and the other flaws in our 
biological organization Mechnikov called "the disharmonies of human 
nature." We cannot but suppose that these disharmonies have arisen 
during the natural course of human evolution. 

The situation will appear less incomprehensible if the mechanics 
of natural selection are considered. Natural selection cannot develop 
this or that organ apart from the rest of the body, nor can it foster 
this or that gene apart from the rest of the genotype. What is selected 
in the process of evolution is the genotype as a whole. It is the whole 
organism which survives or dies, and successfully reproduces or re- 
mains barren. The genotype is a mosaic of genes, but it is wrong to 
think of the organism as though it were a mechanical sum of parts, 
each determined by a single gene. In the process of individual devel- 
opment all genes act in concert. The whole genotype, not just some 
genes, decides what an individual will be like as a fetus, in childhood, 
in adolescence, in maturity, and in old age. Moreover, the develop- 
ment of different individuals takes place in different environments; 
and the genotype may be required to adapt its carrier to any one of the 
possible environments. Certain differences between individuals (such 
as differences between some blood groups) are ascribable to single 
genes, but even the expression of these differences may vary ; what an 
individual is like is always due to all the genes this individual carries. 

The evolutionary success or failure of a species is determined by the 
fitness of its entire genotype, and of its entire developmental pattern, 
in those environments which the species inhabits. An observer may 
discern, however, that some particular feature or aspect of the organi- 
zation is most instrumental in bringing about success or failure. Thus 
with man : his body is remarkable neither by its strength nor by its 
endurance. The evolutionary success of our species has been due to 
brain power, not to body power. Evidently, some genotypes which 
enhance brain power have been selected in spite of their tendency to 
decrease body power. Darwinian fitness is the resultant of all the 
advantages and disadvantages which one genotype may have com- 
pared to other genotypes. In man, the ability to learn and to invent 
and use tools influenced this balance more significantly than did mus- 
cular strength or resistance to inclement weather, although these were 
not negligible. 

It is certainly reasonable to suppose that genotypes which combined 
the greatest brain power with the greatest body power would yield the 
highest fitness. Wliy, then, is man not always as wise as Socrates, as 



370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

strong as a lion, and as hardy as a dog ? If we had unrestricted power 
to plan the evolution of the human genotype we would probably equip 
it with all these qualities and some others besides. But natural selec- 
tion does not work according to any plan. Selection is opportunistic ; 
whatever can survive does. Man's evolution was not designed or 
arranged beforehand. It took the course which it did because man's 
genotype, imperfect as it was, was good enough to survive, and in fact 
good enough to make our species a tremendous biological success. 

Specialization is a common feature of the evolutionary pattern in 
many kinds of organisms at the expense of all-around perfection. The 
former is evidently more easily achieved than the latter. This is true 
not only of unplanned evolution which occurs in the state of nature 
but also of evolution under domestication, which to some extent is 
planned. Among cattle, there exist dairy breeds and beef breeds; 
there exist also some unspecialized breeds, but no breed combines the 
maximal performances of the best dairy and the best beef breeds. Why 
this is so is hard to tell ; it may be that a combination of the above 
sort is a physiological impossibility, since the qualities which one 
may wish to combine may be antagonistic. On the other hand, it may 
be that a perfect breed of cattle is simply yet to be obtained. 

Perhaps the most impressive example, other than man, of an 
organism whose biological success appears to be due to an outstanding 
development of just one ability, and a mediocre development of others, 
is the man-of-war bird {Fregata). Those who have had the oppor- 
tunity to observe these superb fliers procure their food from the tropical 
seas can hardly imagine a more perfect flying machine. Yet, the 
legs of these birds are so weak that they cannot rise into the air from 
a flat surface, nor can they alight on water since their plumage be- 
comes waterlogged. Man is certainly the best thinking machine which 
protoplasm has produced. Tliis confers upon him a biological adapted- 
ness so great that he continues to prosper as a species despite his rela- 
tively weak body, his several biological disharmonies, and his many 
follies. He need not fear biological extinction so long as his genotype 
as a whole enables him to live in some environments, either "natural" 
or devised by his own ingenuity. 

EVOLUTIONARY PROCESSES ACCENTUATED BY CIVILIZATION 

Many traits that were essential for bare survival in a paleolitliic 
culture are unnecessary in New York City, but we have emphasized 
that natural selection is not restricted to the struggle for survival. 
For all organisms, reproduction is tlie essential step in selection, and 
reproduction in man involves not only bearing children, but rearing 
them to maturity. In modern civilization, furthermore, parental in- 
fluence may often be decisive in determining the success of children 



NATURAL SELECTION — DOBZHANSKY AND ALLEN 371 

in their own marriage and reproduction. If so, the reproductive suc- 
cess of an individual may be more adequately gaged by the number 
of his grandchildren than by the number of his children. Also, if 
parental influence is so important, the existing negative correlation 
between intelligence and family size may be compensated in some cul- 
tural groups by a positive correlation between intelligence and suc- 
cessful preparation of one's offspring for adult adjustment. This ex- 
tension of parental functions appears to represent a trend in human 
cultural evolution ; in our own society, as class differentials in fertility 
diminish, it may restore some of the biological value which intelli- 
gence seems to have lost. 

Under civilization, reproduction and successful child rearing have 
come to depend more upon individual adjustment patterns and less 
on survival or reproductive capacity. Individual and family adjust- 
ment is the modem theater of the "struggle for existence." In our 
culture biological adaptedness, that is, optimal reproduction and child 
rearing, seems to bear no direct relation to economic or educational 
status, but probably depends in part upon personal and social ad- 
justment patterns. Though physical and mental handicaps rarely 
eliminate persons completely, they probably affect such adjustment. 
Among the traits capable in this way of influencing reproduction, the 
relative importance of physical health is presumably diminished and 
that of mental health magnified in comparison with selection in prim- 
itive man. In addition, some physiological defects would appear 
to contribute to personal maladjustments more frequently in a mod- 
ern than in a primitive culture. Likely examples of such defects 
are color-blindness, left-handedness, and allergic diathesis. With re- 
spect to genetic factors underlying these traits, present-day natural 
selection may be reinforced both relatively and absolutely. Finally, 
the capacity to compensate for gross physical or sensory handicaps 
probably has more selective value now than it did under conditions of 
existence which eliminated most cripples completely. 

Further speculation is unwarranted here, but it seems safe to as- 
sume that most sensory or mental characteristics that were developed 
in our primate ancestors in response to the demands of an increas- 
ingly complex, variable environment, are even more important to 
civilized man. If so, they surely play some role in determining which 
persons shall marry, which shall have stable families, and which 
shall raise more children. Wlien handicapped individuals defy these 
determinants and become parents, their children pay the price in a 
relatively severe selection by the adverse physical and social en- 
vironment. As a result of this stringent selection in such families, on 
the average, survivors in the third generation are probably superior 
to the grandparents genetically. 



372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

Selection for many traits at once always makes slower progress 
than selection for one or a few traits. Insofar as natural selection 
formerly maintained genetic traits that have now become useless, 
civilization has eliminated a probable source of interference that 
impeded selection for cultural adaptability. Whether selection in the 
latter respect is in an absolute sense stronger or weaker than formerly, 
it is probably operating more efficiently. 

Whatever emphasis is placed here on the positive aspects of natural 
selection under civilization is not intended as a denial of all negative 
aspects. Man's increasing physical dependence on his cultural her- 
itage, beginning with clothing and cooked food, can be taken as a 
historical fact, and accelerated specialization in this direction is to 
some extent inevitable. Conflicts in our present culture between re- 
production and higher education, or between reproduction and self- 
control, are almost completely new selective forces in human evolution. 
It is not at all apparent how these conflicts would be resolved in the 
natural course of cultural progress. On the other hand, artificial 
attempts to counter such selection by "eugenic" support of culturally 
desirable types would inevitably lead to another type of dangerous 
specialization ; the very need of these types for such support, insofar 
as the need exists, proves their failure to adapt biologically to civil- 
ization. Dependence of society upon complex reproductive controls 
seems to be a higher order of specialization, whether better or worse, 
than dependence of the individual on medical and technical aids. 

From a long-term point of view, another effect of civilization may 
be more important than changes in selection pressures per se. Indi- 
vidual genetic variation is the basis for selection, and this has been 
accentuated in modern man for several reasons. First, relaxation 
of selection in any respect immediately increases the proportion of 
minor and extreme abnormalities in the surviving population. 
Second, new environments, as well as the increasing proportion of 
deviant individuals, permit fuller expression of genetic differences 
formerly masked in uniform phenotypes. An example of this is 
perhaps to be seen in some childhood reading disorders, which would 
make little or no difference in an illiterate population. Third, migra- 
tion and intermarriage of formerly separate races or groups produce 
a great new diversity of genotypes. Fourth, increased survival of 
mutations results, to a small extent, in greater prevalence of genes 
that raise the mutation rate. 

Even if selection should be reversed for a brief period of time the 
above sources of increased genetic variation will, in Schmalhausen's 
words, mobilize the variability of the species. Thus, civilization is 
now preparing man for rapid evolution in whatever direction long- 
term selection may determine. As long as populations remain large, 
and as long as competition exists in any form, degenerative evolution- 



NATURAL SELECTION — DOBZHANSKY AND ALLEN 373 

ary trends are likely to be outweighed by adaptive changes, but the 
direction of these changes is uncertain. 

CONCLUSIONS AND SUMMARY 

The idea explicit or implicit in many writings, that all would be 
well with the human species if obstructions to natural selection were 
removed, does not stand critical examination. Man, like any other 
biological species, is constantly subject to natural selection. The 
genotypes which possess the highest Darwinian fitness in the environ- 
ments created by man's inventive genius are, however, not the ones 
which were most favored by selection in the past. Natural selection 
cannot maintain the adaptedness of modern human populations to 
environments which no longer exist, nor can it preadapt them to 
environments of the future. 

Natural selection is opportunistic; it does not always lead to im- 
proved adaptedness. After all, extinction has been the fate of count- 
less biological species which lived in the state of nature and which 
were at all times subject to natural selection. It would be folly for 
our species to risk the same fate for the juggernaut of blind biological 
force. One of the causes of extinction is too narrow an adaptedness 
to a circumscribed biological opportunity which proves only tempo- 
rary. Man has reached a solitary pimiacle of evolutionary success 
by having evolved a novel method of adapting to the environment, 
that by means of culture. Having ventured on this biological experi- 
ment, our species cannot any longer rely entirely on forces of natural 
selection as they operate on the biological level. Man must carefully 
survey the course that lies ahead and constantly study his genetic 
progress. He can then prepare to take over the controls from nature 
if it should become necessary to correct the deficiencies of natural 
selection. Only thus can he insure for himself continued evolutionary 
advance. 

REFERENCES CITED 

AiRD, Ian ; Bentaix., H. H. ; Mehigan, J. A. ; and Egberts, J. A. Fraser. 

1954. Blood groups iu relation to peptic ulceration and carcinoma of colon, 

rectum, breast, and bronchus. British Med. Journ., vol. 2, pp. 
315-321. 
Andrew ARTHA, H. G., and Birch, L. C. 

1955. The distribution and abundance of animals. Chicago. 
Barzun, Jacques. 

1941. Darwin, Marx, Wagner : Critique of a heritage, Boston. 
CooK, Robert C. 

1951. Human fertility : the modern dilemma. New York. 
Darlington, C. D. 

1953. The facts of life. New York. 
Dunn, L. C. 

1953. Variations in the segregation ratio as causes of variations in gene 
frequency. Acta Gen. et Stat. Med., vol. 4, pp. 139-151. 



374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Lack, D. 

1954. The natural regulation of animal numbers. Oxford. 

MULLER, H. J. 

1950. Our load of mutations. Amer. Journ. Human Gen., vol. 2, pp. 111-176. 

OSBORN, F. 

1951. Preface to eugenics. 2d ed. New York. 

SCHMALHAUSEN, I. 

1949. Factors of evolution : the theory of stabilizing selection. Philadelphia. 
Thodat, J. M. 

1953. Components of fitness. Symposia of the Society for Experimental 
Biology, vol. 7, pp. 96-113. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as 
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 



The Ecology of Man' 



By Paul B. Sears 

Chairman, Conservation Program 
Yale University 



[With 10 plates] 

MAN THE NEWCOMER 

The Living Landscape and a New Tenant 

Man is a newcomer into our earth that is old. This being true, 
prudence suggests that man ought not be too self -centered. Instead 
of devoting himself completely to taking advantage of his surround- 
ings, he might do well to spend some effort getting his bearings. 
Unfortunately, as matters stand now, science is being applied to com- 
petitive and exploitive ends in far greater measure than it is to 
establishing perspective. Even the humane and laudable business of 
prolonging life and increasing food supply through science seems to 
be raising as many questions as it solves. 

We hear much these days about man's conquest of nature. Suppose 
as a first step we examine the record. It is longer than we of the 
Western World had thought, for our ideas of eternity have reached 
into the future rather than the past, giving us a curiously bobtailed 
notion of time. We may thank the astronomer, the geologist, the 
evolutionist, and more recently the physicist for setting us straight. 
Owing especially to measurements of radioactive change we now have 
some fairly good approximations of the age of the earth and the an- 
tiquity of various geological events. 

What we know can be made graphic by taking a tliick book of 
some 3,000 pages and assigning to each page the value of 1 million 
years, since the planet earth seems to be some 3 billion (3,000 mil- 
lion) years old. We would scan the first half of this book before 
we came to any very clear evidence of life. Then we would begin 
to read the fragments that tell us of slow and painful development — 



^ Condon Lecture, 1957, reprinted by permission of the Oregon State System of Higher 
Education, Eugene, Oreg. 

492520—59 25 375 



376 AJsnsruAL report Smithsonian institution, less 

marine to terrestrial, nonvascular to vascular, invertebrate to verte- 
brate, fish to mammal, marsupial to man. This is not all. We would 
read how, as old forms died out and new ones came on, there arose, 
both in plants and animals, not only more effective relations to en- 
vironment, but more elaborate mechanisms whereby the parent as- 
sured the safety of the young. 

We would see too an increasing interdependence among living 
things, and between them and their physical surroundings. The fos- 
sil hunters of today are not content merely to describe single species. 
They go beyond this to identify social groups of extinct plants and 
animals. Yet in spite of this increasing fitness of living organisms 
we read no evidence in the record that any form of life ever had 
things completely its own way. All were subject to some great prin- 
ciple of give and take, leading toward a balance or equilibrium. 

And finally if we took account of sediments and earth forms, of 
the chemistry and geometry of rocks, we would find clear evidence 
that living organisms have played an increasing part in geological 
processes as time has gone on. We should see how the exclusively 
physical processes of erosion, deposition, and crustal readjustments 
came to be supplemented by organic sedimentation, the stabilization 
of land forms by vegetation, and the modification of the flow of 
energy and interchange of materials by many activities of plants 
and animals. 

Since such interrelationships between life and environment are 
the peculiar business of ecology, a few words on that branch of bio- 
logical study are in order. In 1959 we shall celebrate the centennial 
of a landmark in man's intellectual progress — the publication of Dar- 
win's "Origin of Species by Natural Selection." You will recall that 
the problem to which Darwin had addressed himself many years 
earlier was that of trying to account for the bewildering variety and 
astonishing fitness of living organisms, both plants and animals. 
Some measure of this task may be had if we recall that perhaps 
300,000 species of plants and nearly a million of animals have been 
identified. 

Darwin had at hand two powerful intellectual tools, one borrowed 
from geology, the other from political economy. The first was the 
principle of uniformity, which assumed that in nature events of the 
past have been determined by those forces that we see in operation 
today. The second was the idea that living beings have a far greater 
capacity to reproduce than to survive. Somehow their nmnbers, 
through the generations, are kept in balance with the space and means 
of subsistence available. Many are born that do not mature, or if 
you prefer to be Scriptural, many are called but few are chosen. 

Fortunately Darwin was a naturalist, trained to observe nature in 
all her aspects. He noted, although he could not explain, the tend- 



THE ECOLOGY OF MAN — SEARS 377 

ency of plants and animals to vary and showed that not all variations 
were equally well fitted to particular environments. And so he con- 
cluded that enviroimient tends to eliminate the less fit while favoring 
their more suitable competitors. 

Thus were the seeds of two new sciences planted — genetics to deal 
with variation and inheritance, ecology to investigate the interrela- 
tion between life and environment. Curiously, a generation was to 
elapse before either gained much headway and when they did genetics 
raced ahead much the faster, for various reasons. Toward the close 
of the 19th century, the pioneer work in ecology filtered across 
the Atlantic to receive its warmest welcome at two youthful uni- 
versities, both in the Midwest, Chicago and Nebraska. First to be 
developed was plant ecology, later came animal ecology and their 
combination, bioecology. Human ecology, our present concern, is 
still in a tentative stage, but the ultimate goal is a general ecology, 
embracing that of all forms of life. 

By this time ecology has proved its value in forestry, range, fish, 
and game management, where specialists are free to employ it. Its 
greatest potential service to mankind, however, can only be possible 
through voluntary public policy, based on widespread common 
knowledge and consent. Ecology is, above all, a source of perspec- 
tive in time and space and a means of understanding the great proc- 
esses of which we are necessarily a part. We now face urgent prob- 
lems in the allocation of population pressures, the use and care of 
environmental materials and energy, the plamiing of space, and the 
elimination of war and other forms of waste. These all call for an 
ecological understanding beyond that now possessed by engineers, 
and leaders in finance, industry, and politics. 

Since increasing numbers are exposed to courses in biology in high 
school or college or both, it seems quite possible that the emphasis of 
these courses should be reviewed, to insure a proper presentation of 
important ecological principles. It is all very well to learn about 
anatomy and physiology in plants, animals, and man. But no one 
would expect, for example, to deal through a knowledge of mechanics 
alone with the many public problems raised by the automobile. In- 
deed, viewing the extravagant missilelike desig-n and immense waste 
power of the modern automobile, I wonder whether automotive engi- 
neering couldn't do with a little ecology of its own ! 

In any event, a practical way to test some of these notions and to 
prepare us for considering man's place in nature is to examine some 
of the more elementary findings of the ecologist. Doing so, we must 
keep in mind that his essential business is to study process, in particu- 
lar the process wherein life and environment interact. Obviously he 
must understand both living organisms and their environment — a task 



378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

complicated by the fact that living organisms are themselves a part of 
the environment of other living things. 

Now environment, any way we consider it, is a mighty complex sys- 
tem in itself. But there is an old rule and a good one that the way to 
tackle a complicated problem (in science, business, or personal rela- 
tions) is to take it a bit at a time, provided one doesn't ever lose sight 
of the whole. Perhaps as useful a breakdown as any is the following : 

Earth : Lithosphere, studied by geologists, geographers, soil scientists. 

Air : Atmosphere, studied by ciimatologists, meteorologists, etc. 

Water : Hydrosphere, studied by oceanographers, limnologists, hydrologists, etc. 

Life : Biosphere, studied by biologists. 

To these might be added Blind— the Psychosphere, studied by psy- 
chologists, anthropologists, and other social scientists. 

Clearly no ecologist can become all these various specialists rolled 
into one. But he must be enough at home in their various fields to 
draw upon them as he needs, and even to contribute what he can. In 
particular he must learn to work the borderlines between them and 
in some degree become what has been called a "specialist in the gen- 
eral." To do this at the sacrifice of thoroughness or the ability to do 
scrupulously accurate, detailed work when necessary, would, however, 
be as fatal to him as to any other scientist. 

By way of examples of some of the things that are of especial con- 
cern to him from each of these several aspects of environment let us 
take : 

Earth (the solid lithosphere). — Here he is interested in the obvious 
irregularity of surface forms and chemistry, both so significant for life. 
Mountains and valleys, ores and nutrient minerals are where we find 
them, not predictable on any simple geometrical plan. This means 
that the ecologist cannot, to the same extent as the chemist, safely rely 
upon universal formulas. Each situation must be studied on its 
merits. The rainfall which suffices to produce forest in a cool region 
may mark desert nearer the Equator. The failure of one plant to form 
seed in a given locality may be due to temperature or mineral defi- 
ciency ; in another to the absence of a particular insect. 

Yet behind all the diversity and irregularity there exist certain 
trends toward order and equilibrium. Rivers tend to seek base level, 
extreme differences in elevation and mineral content to be reduced, 
soils to develop toward maximum fertility, and so on. Frequently 
though such trends may be interrupted or reversed, they are not to be 
ignored. 

Air (the gaseous atmosphere). — Gas, or spiritus in classical lan- 
guage, long the most mysterious and elusive of the states of matter 
proved in the end to be most amenable to experiment and the simplest 
for mathematical treatment. It was the study of gases that unlocked 
the gate to modern chemistry and physiology. The gaseous envelope 



THE ECOLOGY OF MAN — SEARS 379 

of our planet is, like the soil, a reservoir of materials needed by plants 
and animals. It is also the medium through which solar energy 
reaches vegetation. But more than this, it is in constant turmoil, due 
primarily to that same solar energy. Its dynamic activity provides us 
with our daily weather while its behavior pattern in time and space 
we designate as climate, so important to the distribution and activity 
of living organisms. 

Although atmospheric behavior is based upon the geometrically 
regular relations of sun and earth, the irregular pattern of land and 
water causes many interesting and important variations from place to 
place, from time to time. Great shifts have taken place over long 
periods of time as witnessed by the presence of coal in the polar re- 
gions and evidence of continental ice masses as far south as the Ohio 
River. Lesser fluctuations, for example the recurrence of dry years in 
groups, are known to be normal events and should be so regarded in 
planning regional economy, notably in the High Plains. 

Water (the hydrosphere). — Here we deal with three states of 
matter, liquid, solid, and gaseous. Although the prevailing tempera- 
tures on earth lie between the melting and boiling points of water — 
a very fortunate circumstance for life as we know it — of the utmost 
importance is the ability of water to form vapor at temperatures 
below its boiling point. Thus water rises from the oceans and moves 
inland as vapor, to fall upon the land as rain or snow, then flows back 
to sea. The rate of this return is of great ecological moment. In 
general the more gradual it is, the greater its opportunity to sustain 
life on land and the less it disturbs land forms through erosion and 
deposition. And here we encounter one of those many mutual rela- 
tions that abound in the living landscape, for it is vegetation which, 
once established, chiefly restrains the rush and destructiveness of flow- 
ing water. 

Truly, water, one of the most familiar of substances, is yet one of 
the most amazing; and its presence in atmosphere, lithosphere, and 
living organisms as well, serves to remind us that environment is a 
great interwoven complex which we can take apart only mentally in 
our effort to understand it better. 

Life (the living biosphere of plants, animals, and some simple 
forms that may be either, or both) . — In the old days when physical 
scientists were called natural philosophers, and geologists and biolo- 
gists were not ashamed to be called naturalists, it used to be said that 
nature abhors a vacuum. It might be said with equal truth that 
nature abhors the absence of life on earth, in air or water. Life, 
whether visible to us or not, abounds everywhere, thanks to the vari- 
ation, reproductive vigor, and fitness through natural selection that 
Darwin pointed out to us. 



380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1058 

Let us say that environment abounds in niches or opportunities for 
particular organisms to carry on, and that the course of evolution has 
been a process of filling these niches, meanwhile creating new ones 
at every step. Thus the oak tree, once established in its own niche, 
possibly a sunny, well-drained slope facing southwest, affords suitable 
niches to woodpecker, squirrel, fungi, and insects that find on it food 
or shelter, or both. We ourselves create niches for dogs, poultry, 
rats, maize, and wheat, and an impressive list of smaller organisms 
whose number may vary inversely with our use of soap and water. 

Any species moving into a niche has an effect or reaction upon 
the situation. Let us call this its role. The effect of this role may vary 
widely. Thus the squirrel's habit of burying acorns is a means of 
planting many oaks, while its fondness for buds in early spring must 
be a more or less efficient substitute for the self-pruning that we see 
in the cottonwood. The role of coyote in keeping a balance among 
rodents and thus protecting the grasses and other plants that sustain 
the whole native menagerie of the Yellowstone area I have observed 
myself. From years of studying such remnants of undisturbed nature 
as I could, I have concluded that, on the whole and in the long course 
of time, unless an organism in its niche performs a role that con- 
tributes to the balance of nature, it is likely to be eliminated. 

Every organism we know about, with one interesting exception to 
be discussed later, is confined to a limited geographical area known 
as its range. Witjiin that range it is usually restricted to certain 
favorable habitats that afford it an appropriate niche. These pat- 
terns are set by the operation of what are called limiting factors. 
Thus the commercial growth of maize is limited in the north by cold, 
in the west by dryness, and to the east by a combination of topog- 
raphy, soil chemistry, and economics. Any plant or animal requires 
a certain constellation of favorable conditions to survive and does 
not thrive beyond the point where any one of these conditions becomes 
unfavorable or, as we say, limiting. 

Some of the most interesting cases are those in which the limiting 
factor is the presence or absence of another species. Orchids may 
require certain fungi, cowbirds and cattle egrets follow grazing 
herds, walnut roots poison tomato plants, and tsetse flies carry 
sleeping sickness, thus keeping people out of an area and favoring 
certain African mammals wliich otherwise man would exterminate. 

The hunter and naturalist have long known that plants and animals 
occur in characteristic commimities or groups. To speak of jack 
rabbits or prairie dogs is to suggest grassland. We would expect to 
see squirrels in a woodland of oak and hickory, ptannigan and conies 
in the beautiful flowered alpine meadows above timber line. Even in- 
sects and microscopic forms of life may be known by the company 
they keep. 



THE ECOLOGY OF MAN — SEARS 381 

Any community has both structure and composition. Structure 
depends on the form of dominant plant life, as forest, grassland, or 
scrub. This tells us a good deal about local conditions such as mois- 
ture and length of growing season. Grass requires more moisture 
than scrub, trees more than grass, as a rule. 

To get further information we have to see what kinds of trees make 
up a forest, what kinds of grass and other herbs form a given prairie 
or steppe. Desert plants look much alike the world over but are very 
different botanically, cactuses being 100 percent American ; or rather 
they were until misguided people took them to North Africa and Aus- 
tralia where they have become an unbounded nuisance. It has become 
necessary, in fact, to send back to America for insects that serve to 
keep cactuses in hand in Mexico and our own Southwest. As we have 
said earlier, plants and animals through occupying niches and perform- 
ing roles have a general tendency to maintain a balance among them- 
selves and with the physical conditions around them. 

This balance is not a perfect thing, nor is it achieved immediately. 
The living organisms that first occupy a particular site change it by 
shading, enriching, and in other ways, so that they actually write 
their own finis, being succeeded by other species. This process, ap- 
propriately known as ecological succession, continues up to the point 
where members of the community can perpetuate themselves as hem- 
lock does under hemlock, which for its part may have come in under 
fir or spruce. And perhaps the fir or spruce has followed pine after 
the latter had occupied bare ground. Thus it is that one can read 
climate, soil moisture and quality, and history to boot by observing 
living communities. It is important, not only to human enjoyment, 
but to human understanding that we do not destroy completely the 
natural communities w^hich have preceded us and literally prepared 
the way for us. 

These communities have built up the soil to sustain far more life 
than could the original bare ground, virgin soil being notably rich. 
They have also regulated the flow of water and held the ground in 
place. They are the homes of plants and animals that are useful, in- 
teresting, and enjoyable. They serve, far better than any instruments 
man has devised, to give us a measure of the capacity of an environ- 
ment to sustain life. And, believe it or not, they afford us models for 
our own use of land. The most destructive practices, such as growing 
single crops in rows, are a far cry from what we find in nature. But 
grass and legume farming with livestock to consume the product and 
enrich the soil, winter cover crops to protect fields that otherwise 
would be bare, and forests on rough ground are far better for the 
land and, in the long run, for the man who lives on it. They accord 
better, too, with certain fundamental laws that govern the efficient 
use of energy and materials. 



382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

What we have tried to say thus far is that man has enjoyed the ad- 
vantage of an earth that was, so to speak, a long time getting ready 
for him. More specifically put, he has evolved in relation to and by 
virtue of a highly organized and specialized environment. The earth 
is fit for him and he for it not only because of what he found here 
but of what went on here during the millions of years before his ad- 
vent. Surely it behooves him to think twice before causing too much 
disruption. 

Now let us look at man himself more closely. He is often called a 
Pleistocene marmnal, which means that he appeared during the great 
glacial period in geological history. This was a time of storm and 
stress. Evaporation lowered the oceans to feed the growing polar 
and alpine ice. As the ice expanded it narrowed the biosphere into 
an equatorial girdle and within that girdle rainfall was probably 
heavy, favoring forests. At times the ice retreated, as it is doing now. 
Moisture lessened, temperatures rose, the living girdle widened to- 
ward the poles, and places which had been humid forest became 
desert. Such have been conditions during the past million years or so, 
the time that human beings have existed. 

We are a novelty, if we do say so. Reach up to chin yourself, note 
the articulation of your shoulder joint and the ability of your hands 
to grasp a bar (or branch) strong enough to sustain your weight. 
Then ask yourself "What kind of a community — desert, grassland, or 
forest — did early men, my own ancestors, probably come from?" It 
seems clear that at first man, like other species, was restricted in range 
and habitat by certain limiting factors, temperature and suitable food 
being among them. 

But not for long. Why? Look again at your hands. Note the 
opposing thumb and fingers and compare their manipulative range 
with that of any bird or beast you know. Think of your erect spine 
that frees your forelimbs from serving as legs, your head pivoted 
for swinging about the horizon, and your eyes set to form between 
them the base of a triangle. Any object you look at becomes the 
apex of that triangle enabling you unconsciously to form some judg- 
ment of its size or distance, or both. With such equipment an 
astonishing range of experience becomes possible. 

That is not all. You have a central nervous system that is large to 
begin with and can continue its growth. Any experience, we know, 
registers in this central nervous system, to be recalled or reconsidered 
in future. Over and above what is called the "old brain" in mammals, 
you possess a powerfully developed "new brain," the busy nerve 
center of conscious activity. The "old brain" for its part attends to 
many routine matters without bothering headquarters. 

Finally, human beings are equipped with a remarkably versatile 
vocal system, capable of producing an infinite variety of sound com- 



THE ECOLOGY OF MAN — SEARS 383 

binations. It is thus possible to have spoken symbols enough to com- 
municate our experiences and thoughts to others. In this way knowl- 
edge can be exchanged and accumulated, and handed down through 
the generations, an immense advantage over the old do-it-yourself, 
learn-the-hard-way system that prevails so widely in nature. The 
upshot was a true biological revolution, the birth of culture, carrying 
with it the awful gift of conscious responsibility. 

Man's unique power to manipulate things and accumulate experience 
presently enabled him to break through the barriers of temperature, 
aridity, space, seas, and mountains that have always restricted other 
species to specific habitats within a limited range. With the cultural 
devices of fire, clothing, shelter, and tools he was able to do what no 
other organism could do without changing its original character. 
Cultural change was, for the first time, substituted for biological 
evolution as a means of adapting an organism to new habitats in a 
widening range that eventually came to include the whole earth. 

There is not much doubt that man is an Old World product and 
great interest centers just now on research in Africa where very 
early humanoid primate material keeps turning up. We reason that at 
first man was a gatherer, eating what he could find and digest. To 
judge by the thoroughness with which eatables, poisons, and drugs 
were known before the days of modern science, man must have tried 
nearly everything — plant, animal, and inanimate — that he found. We 
can be fairly certain of one thing — early man had to have considerable 
space to pick over if he survived. Even when he had developed tools 
and weapons for hunting it is estimated that some 4 square miles per 
person were required to sustain a family. Until the domestication 
of cereals and other food plants mankind was spread thin. The State 
of Ohio, an area of about 40,000 square mules and now holding 7 to 9 
million people, is estimated to have been populated by only 12,000 to 
15,000 Indians even when some agriculture was combined with hunt- 
ing, gathering, and fishing in that very fertile land. 

Now spacing is a crucial and constant problem with living organ- 
isms, plants as well as animals. It has a twofold aspect. We might 
say that it involves both contact and elbowroom. The individual 
must not become completely out of touch with his own kind. No 
matter how unsocial the species, there must be communication for 
reproduction at the very least. Beyond that one finds all degrees 
up to the highly social and cooperative. 

On the other hand the most dangerous potential competition of a 
species is that with precisely the same needs, namely its own kind. 
The sweet song of the nesting robin is more often a No Trespass sign 
than a love call. The jaeger, an Alaskan bird of prey that feeds on 
rodents, gets along very well when food is scarce. But when the 
rodent population builds up, the jaegers behave like a lot of claim 



384 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

jumpers around a gold strike. They encroach on each other's terri- 
tory, and between fighting over the abundance of food and squabbling 
over nesting space they fail to raise the normal broods to maturity and 
their population starts to decline before food runs out. 

It seems reasonable to suppose that man's progress over the earth 
was a matter of families or small groups living together for protection 
and cooperation, but spreading out and away from too close competi- 
tion with other groups. If so, it affords a beautiful illustration of 
the principle that "competition with other species has a centripetal 
effect, driving each back into its own territory, while competition 
within a species is a centrifugal force, causing the species to scatter." 

Man has always had to reckon with both kinds of competition. In 
the beginning, and until hre and weapons were available, the now 
extinct Pleistocene mammals doubtless kept him in bounds, never far 
from caves, perhaps treetops, and other citadels. The effect was 
clearly centripetal. But the recent finding of extinct mammal re- 
mains in association with stone weapons shows clearly that he had 
discovered another refuge — the devices of his culture. He needed no 
longer to defend himself within a certain stronghold, but within a 
way of life. Modern man, having pretty well disposed of his larger 
competitors, now finds himself pitted against rodents, insects, and 
fungi for control of food and other organic materials. He has also 
long been engaged in a confused competition for space with forests, 
of which m.ore later. 

It is a safe guess that as he overcame pressure from other species, 
that from his own increased, thus setting the weaker and more venture- 
some both on the road. What he accomplished, on foot, with only the 
dog, fire, and stone tools to aid him, is one of the most remarkable of 
human achievements. It happened during the accordionlike action of 
the glacial age, when climate compressed the habitable regions as the 
ice advanced, releasing them to expand as it retreated. Through this 
experience man learned to adjust himself to new vicissitudes of 
temperature and to utilize new forms of animal life from colder 
regions. The warm interglacials opened his path to the far north. 
Our observations in Greenland show us that glaciers can form only 
where both cold and moisture are present. There are and were many 
dry cold areas where early man, by now accustomed to the cold, could 
hang on in spite of the relentless advance of the continental ice masses. 

This had spectacular consequences. As the ice grew from the 
moisture that fed it, the sea level was correspondingly lowered, until 
it was some 300 feet below where it is now". Then, of course, sea 
bottom was exposed in places, creating migration pathways. These 
served man as they had served various Old World animals for an 
entry into the New World and allowed the horse, evolved in the 
Americas, to move westward into Asia. Just how and when these 



THE ECOLOGY OF MAN — SEARS 385 

various sliifts occurred is one of the intriguing problems of science, 
but we can say they did happen. 

At any rate man had spread his wide-meshed net of sparse popula- 
tions into every continent before the next revolutionary step, his do- 
mestication of the cereals. We are pretty sure of our ground here 
because we can, by various methods, trace the use of cultivated plants 
outward from the centers of first use, and we know the general location 
of three such independent centers. These are Asia Minor (wheat), 
southeastern Asia (rice), and Mesoamerica (maize). In each in- 
stance a grass of weedlike readiness to grow in open bare ground and 
with fruits of good size and nutritious character played the star role. 
Around each was developed a complex of other plants (in America, 
squash, beans, peppers, tomatoes, etc.). It has been suggested, with 
good arguments, that the rich bare surface of household dumps, where 
bones, scraps, seeds, and doubtless manure accumulated, were man's 
first gardens. The readiness with which tomato and melon vines 
spring up today out of garbage heaps makes this seem reasonable. 
So, too, does the fact that certain weeds of the amaranth and goosef oot 
family not only appear at the beginnings of agriculture in the Old 
and New Worlds both, but are still used as food in places. And, un- 
fortunately, the average single-crop field happens to be the ecological 
equivalent of the pioneer, or weed stage in community development. 
If you will recall that at this stage of succession living organisms have, 
unlike the mature forest or prairie, a minimum stabilizing effect on 
the habitat, you will see why unskillful agriculture has often been its 
own undoing. 

But the important tiling is that by domesticating food plants, man 
reduced enormously the space required for sustaining each individual 
by a factor of the order of 500 at least. This meant that people could 
live closer together and in larger groups. It also meant that time was 
available for something beside the constant search for food. Cities 
and leisure for the arts were born, the offspring of agriculture. And 
yet, by a wry twist of fate, we see in history that repeatedly the status 
of the farmer has been lowered and with it the quality of his work 
and the response of the soil. Bad as it is for the offspring to look 
down on his parent, it is far worse for him to destroy that parent. 
Today, as a result of the present population explosion and resultant 
urban spread, choice garden, orchard, and farm land is being con- 
verted into suburbs and lost to the production of food and fiber. But 
we are ahead of our story. 

The human record becomes less vague — more continuous and clear — 
following the invention of agriculture and cities. Technical im- 
provements in the use of minerals, fabrication of tools and utensils, 
the arts of writing, sculpture, and architecture, and civic and military 
organization came on in succession, either by independent invention 



386 ANNUAL REPORT SlVnTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

or often by transfusion. Much has been lost, much may be misunder- 
stood, but the main trends are clear and growing more so every year. 

It is not enough, however, to know the record. We need to know 
its meaning as well. Until very recently history told us much about 
man, little about environment and practically nothing about their 
interrelation. In other words, moral history was a thing completely 
apart from natural history. This, let us add, could scarcely be helped, 
for our discovery of the method of discovery, that is science, is some- 
thing quite new, old though its roots may be. 

What can and must be helped, however, is any further continuance 
of a bad situation. Now that we stand committed to universal educa- 
tion and the political responsibility of the individual we must close 
the gap between the humanities and the sciences. We must rewrite 
history and restudy human values with an eye to man's long evolu- 
tionary background and his growing role as a natural force. Wliat en- 
vironment does to him and what he in turn does to it are of far more 
significance than the loves of monarchs and the quirks of generals. 
Conquests and migrations, campaigns and battles, creative arts and 
religious philosophies all take on a fuller meaning in the context of 
ecology. 

Environment and life are inseparable, as Darwin showed them to be. 

MAN THE DOMINANT 
A Tenant Becomes Landlord 

Our discussion up to this point might be summarized by saying that 
man has enjoyed the benefits of a highly developed and organized 
environment. As for the environment itself, it can be described as 
a whole that is more than the sum of its parts, thanks to its organiza- 
tion. The same thing is true of the human being, whose peculiar 
bodily characters do not increase his power by simple addition as each 
layer of boards increases the height of a pile of lumber. Instead his 
facility of manipulation, vision, speech, and thought resulting finally 
in culture, increase his basic animal powers in a manner truly ex- 
ponential. 

For an analogy we need only think of a company of say 100 men. 
Add another individual and if he be vested with authority and en- 
dowed with certain qualities of character and personality you will 
have not 101 percent of what you had before, but perhaps 500 or 
even 1,000 percent. 

Precisely such an instance occurred when hunting was replaced 
by an efficient agriculture. There were, of course, many degrees of 
effectiveness in various cultures as there still are. The most notable 
perfection was, curiously enough, where difficulties had to be over- 
come, particularly where the control of moisture conditions was in- 



THE ECOLOGY OF MAN — SEARS 387 

volved. Here something like a sedentary system developed, while 
the technical stimulus of dealing with water by storage, ditching, flood- 
ing, and draining, had its impact not only on food production but 
on engineering, mathematics, and physics. It was in such places as 
the empires of Mesopotamia, the kingdoms of the Nile, the terraced 
highlands of Peru, and the lake-margin gardens of Mexico that the 
arts really flourished. 

By contrast there developed within forest regions an exploitive and 
transient type of land use, resting upon removal and destruction of 
the original cover by chopping and burning. Planting with simple 
tools might yield returns for a year or two, but grass and weeds 
would presently come in. If domestic animals were at hand, the area 
might then be pastured for a time while fresh clearings were made 
and the process repeated. In the absence of grazing animals such 
areas would revert to brush and then to forest, as they would ulti- 
mately through the growth of briers even if pastured. This type of 
use is not too bad so long as the cycle permits some recuperation. But 
it cannot sustain a dense population for any great period of time. 
In contrast to the control of water, which enhanced the potential of 
environment and encouraged the concentration of people, forest clear- 
ance destroyed the very constructive agency that had made the area 
productive in the first place, without substituting any proper 
equivalent. 

Therefore the effect of clearing and burning, whether in Neolithic 
Europe, Mexico and Honduras, or the Southern United States, was 
to encourage a shifting economy and produce a scattered population. 
On the whole, the occurrence of large permanent metropolitan cen- 
ters in humid forest regions is usually due to something other than 
the efficient local production of food. 

Where men followed their flocks and herds instead of tilling the 
soil it was likewise not possible to accumulate large sedentary con- 
centrations of people. Because this type of culture neither enhanced 
the environment as did irrigation, nor destroyed its cover as did 
clearing, but rather utilized that cover directly, it was immediately 
ilependent upon favorable seasons and places. These nomads tended 
likewise to be alert,, aggressive, mobile, and accustomed to the sight 
of blood. "Wlien continued drought or neighborly pressure threat- 
ened they sought relief by movement — with or without raiding and 
plundering. Much history has its explanation in this fact. 

These early phases of human culture can rpeak to us only in 
snatches, through their more durable remains and their effects on 
the landscape. But the lesson they leav«». is clear enough. Only 
where the effort was made to maintain and improve the environment 
was anything like an efficient and sustained relationship achieved. 
Even here the balance could be destroyed, as when invaders ruined 



388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

the ancient irrigation works of Asia Minor and when Spain wrecked 
the efficient chinampa or lake-margin garden system of Mexico. But 
where man attempted to take without return, as nomadic grazier or 
burner of the forest, he created nothing for an invader to destroy 
and was himself obliged to keep moving or settle for a declining level 
of living. 

With the invention of written records in the more stable population 
centers the past can speak to us more explicitly, mind to mind. 
We can at last begin to see, not merely how cultures operate, but 
what gives them direction. Always there is the compelling frame- 
work of immediate enviromnent — the sunny valley of the ordered 
Nile, the violence of the Tigi'is and Euphrates, the stormy northern 
seas, abode of vast schools of fish and pathway to rich plunder, the 
swampy ricelands of southern Asia, the lofty terraced potato fields 
of the Incas. Man can no more avoid coming to terms with such 
stern realities than he can dispense with his skin. 

But these physical or natural conditions are only part of the system. 
Interacting with them are the intangible values, ideals and beliefs of 
the resident culture. Here we find the cultural basis not only of 
character and personality, but even of technical advance. For as- 
suredly what is esteemed will be achieved, in some measure at least. 
If you would understand a people study their heroes, their art, and 
their faith. "Let me sing the songs of a people and I care not who 
makes their laws." 

Now a lot of these matters are intuitive in origin. Yet I for one am 
inclined to set much store by the force of ideas more or less consciously 
evolved — a process greatly favored by the invention of written sym- 
bols. "Reading maketh a full man, conversation a ready man, and 
writing an exact man." There is something quite sobering in the 
thouglit that men a century from now, perhaps 20 centuries from novr, 
reading what you have written, will be at liberty to pronounce you 
whnt they will — a fool, a liar, a sage, or a man of taste. 

Thanks to the record, we know many of the ideas that, evolving, 
have shaped Western culture. Coming from the Greeks we have the 
right of the free mind to inquire. From the Jews we have a two-edged 
gift — the notion of consistent universal law along with the idea of man 
apart from nature. There was also more than a little suggestion that 
prosperity is among the rewards of virtue — a notion particularly 
congenial to our Puritan and (dare I say so) our Quaker ancestors. 

Christian thought laid the groundwork for universal brotherhood 
and freedom, but by emphasizing the transient character of this earth 
as a vale of tears did little to encourage our curiosity about it. Human 
dignity as first asserted applied to the immortal soul rather than to in- 
tellectual and political rights, although I suspect the first ultimately 
made the last two possible. To this we probably owe science and the 



THE ECOLOGY OF MAN — SEARS 389 

means to advance it. We should not be deceived by the fact that des- 
potism can foster science to its own ends. Neither should we assume 
that our own use of science is beyond scrutiny. 

Indeed, I suggested in the beginnmg that we are employing science 
in a somewhat peculiar way, for short- rather than long-term objec- 
tives. This is curious, for capitalism itself is based on the idea of 
benefits postponed and Christian ethics upon ultimate rather than 
immediate reward. 

Since science is only possible because of confidence that the universe 
is an expression of consistent processes or laws, we need not be sur- 
prised that a culture which has enjoyed some of the fruits of science 
should regard science itself with a great deal of confidence, or faith, if 
you will. More than this, the faith in miracles dies hard. Having 
discarded the idea of miracles outside of nature, we yet may choose 
to expect them within nature. 

For nature itself we retain the ancient Western idea that it exists 
solely for man's edification and use — a conviction that leads directly to 
abuse. We have been accused of being materialistic. This is true 
only in a sense, for our besetting sin is lack of respect for the materials 
and the energy that sustain us. Still influenced by the old idea that 
prosperity is the reward of virtue, we feel that prosperity is itself 
a virtue. Poverty becomes a crime and by transfer those occupations 
whose price is poverty fall into disrepute. But since some worthy in- 
dividuals are clearly not responsible for their poverty we tend to 
make the existence of poverty a crime of the culture. This leads us 
to issue a blanket pardon to all who lack thrift and to encourage in 
society a rate of fabrication and a kind of product that may distribute 
benefits but which intensifies the pressure on our environment at the 
expense of the future. 

Our ideal then becomes a society where each has everything he 
could possibly use. Fords expand into Lincolns, Chevrolets into 
Cadillacs, and Lincolns and Cadillacs into God-knows-whats. We 
maintain the system less by reserving our present income than by 
mortgaging our future earnings, much of which comes from making 
other things that people may not need, but may either desire or be 
made to. At present, a high percentage of bank loans in the average 
bank are for the time purchase of automobiles and these are not by 
any means lifetime investments, as we know. Clearly the effect of 
this trend is to distract our attention from thinking of how the en- 
viromnent will stand up under pressure through the long future. 

Imagine if you will a species — any species — that suddenly increases 
manyfold its range and speed of travel, the demands it makes upon 
environment for material and energy, and that has found a way to 
prolong life and lower the death rate while continuing to reproduce in 
excess of that death rate. Imagine, too, that the resource base of this 



390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

species does not increase relatively to its numbers. Then recall that 
we are just such a species, Homo sapiens. 

Actually we have brought about a paradox, so far as space is con- 
cerned. As our numbers increase, so does our space j)er capita. 
Each urban citizen is getting about double the space he had 50 years 
ago, and so is each rural person — that is, each rural person who stays 
in the country. The average farmer operates twice the acreage he 
would have done 50 years ago. The answer to our paradox lies in the 
fact that urban growth is due to immigration from the country. The 
new city man doesn't get twice the space he had in the country — he 
just gets twice the space he would have had if he had moved into the 
city 50 years ago ! 

Very likely we are suffering from a population-pressure neurosis 
much like that of the jaegers at the high point of the rodent cycle. 
The fact that no great city maintains its numbers by its own birth 
rate suggests this. We surrender our right to cross a street at will, 
to keep poultry, and drmk unchlormated water from our own well. 
We may spend an hour and a half traveling between home and work 
each day. 

Wliatever the psychological effects of tliis on personality may be, 
we can be sure of other effects that are not to be laughed off. The 
intimate, sensitive contact between man and the resource base is 
broken. Milk comes from wagons, other foods from shelves, and how 
they get there is someone else's business. If history gives us any 
guide, the very congestion of numbers submerges the individual and 
exacts its toll in the creeping loss both of liberty and sense of respon- 
sibility. The chain of dependence upon technology lengthens and 
with it the distance between the individual and the physical basis of 
survival. Competition intensifies and can no longer be met by 
moving away from it. Instead the individual seeks protection from 
it in hiding within his specialty and then seeking to protect his 
specialty by devices of organization and monopoly. Specialization is 
no longer just a device to increase efficiency but a cultural refuge from 
intolerable pressures as well. 

I pass no judgment here on the ethics and esthetics of this situation, 
I merely suggest that the problem is with us and we ought not blunder 
further into it with our eyes closed. Unfortunately the issue is 
clouded by a serious cleavage of opinion among those to whom we 
look for guidance. Perhaps the prevailing idea is that both popula- 
tion and our economy must continue to expand indefinitely or go 
under. Sustaining this view is a confidence in the power of modern 
science and technology to meet and conquer any shortages or other 
obstacles that may develop. A familiar expression is that "the only 
essential resource is human resourcefulness itself." 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Sears 



PLATE 1 





^. 



-'5^ 






2 P 



/si ' 


r-' ^ ^; 


(U o 


' /''/' 


J-' ' 


^ -^ 


A '■* <. % 




O Ph 




CO 

.2 a 


4^ 




^ "5 


>> . , - 




t- ni 


»" 


^jjl^ i 




' 


y cJHWw ■■ 


^ U l3 




y'" ' 


CO *-> ni 
^ 3 g: 


1' . 


■•v.; '- 


O O S 


^'^%-. 


">,*-- 

•,>i-i^'^; 


Four 
arid. 
Thorn 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Sears 



PLATE 2 




Smithsonian Report, 1938. — Sears 



PLATE 3 




1. Women of the Sonjo tribe in Africa gardening with digging sticks. Photograph by 

Oliver Milton. 



m 




2. The rectangular patches, or milpas, have been cleared by fire and farmed repeatedly 
until the soil is stripped by erosion, as in the lightest patches. Photograph by A. J. 
Sharp. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Sears 



PUATE 4 



«^- 





m 

1. Alexican plowing with wooden plow and oxen. 




2. Modern power iiiaciiiiicr\ Ik-ihl' u^' - .■ ' '• '■ ^ ' 

in one day. Photograph by the author. 



A England farm 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Sears 



Plate 5 




1. Damage duo to an engineering construction planned without attention to geology and 

soil science. 




2. Flood damage due to invasion of flood plain by industry. Photograph courtesy of 

Sikorsky Co. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Sears 



Plate 6 




1. Dust storm. Effect of plowing up semiarid grasslands. Photograph by the author. 




2. Farm buried in drifts due to wind erosion from plowed fields. Photograph courtesy of 

Soil Conservation Service. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Sears 



Plate 7 




Rice terraces in the Philippines that have persisted for 1,200 years or more. Adjacent 
forest is protected by religious taboos. Photograph by D. L. Sears. 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Sears 



Plate 8 




1. Example of good land U8c. Aludcin Danish farms. Photograph courtesy of Godsejer 
AI. Dlnesen, Eskildstrup, Denmark. 




2. Modern soil conservation measures in Pennsylvania. Photograph courtes}- of Soil 

Conservation Service. 



Smithsonian Report, I958.-^ar» 



PLATE 9 




Smithsonian Report, \ 958. — Sears 



PLATE 10 




I 



Bird's-eye view of traffic construction in a metropolitan area. Photograph courtesy of 
Standard Oil Co. of California. 



THE ECOLOGY OF MAN — SEARS 391 

In support we hear further of the sparsely settled Tropics, the vast 
reaches of the sea, the present (United States) agricultural surplus, 
the continuing progress of synthetic chemistry, and the possibilities 
of energy from sun and atom. The extreme advocates have even been 
known to say without a smile that overpopulation is not a menace 
because we'll soon have space travel. Anyone who has traveled 
bumper to bumper trying to get out of a great metropolis on a holiday 
or to get an inexpensive reservation on a transatlantic steamer on 
short notice might reserve judgment on this latter point, especially 
if he recalled that perhaps 120,000 people are added daily to the 
world's population. Incidentally, to provide adequate food, fiber, 
and living space for these new guests would require the equivalent 
of one Ohio county — some 400 square miles — added to the productive 
land of our planet each 24 hours. This, of course, is not happening 
and in consequence many, perhaps most, of those born in ancient and 
overcrowded lands are doomed to lifetimes of want and privation. 
In the past these lifetimes have been, on the average, brief, owing to 
high infant mortality and the incidence of disease. 

Recently, however, the effects of modern medicine and public health 
measures have been extended over the earth. More people are now 
living for a longer time. To some extent the production of food 
in overcrowded nations has been improved, but this contributes to 
greater numbers surviving rather than a better dietary for all. 
Meanwhile there has been little adjustment, outside of Europe, in the 
birth rate. So we see doubling of the population of Ceylon — an 
inelastic island — in less than a score of years, and agonizing pressures 
in another island, Puerto Rico. In our own country the net rate of 
increase is actually higher than in the overpopulated Orient owing 
to better sanitation, more food, more space, and other advantages 
that protect us for the present. I suspect that we now have the best 
chance we shall have to avoid the fate of older nations, for we still 
have a freedom of choice and action that they have lost. 

A convenient way to show the process in which modern man, no less 
than his ancestors, is involved is by means of the following memoran- 
dum. Using R for resources from the environment, P for population 
in numbers of individuals in a given group, and C for the culture 
of that group, we first write a fraction 

R 
P 

This means plainly enough that the per capita share of resources, or 
any of them (space, water, minerals, timber, etc.), increases with their 
abundance and decreases with rising population. But if we compare, 
say, Brazil rich in resources and Denmark with few, we see that our 

492520—59—26 



392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

expression is not complete. The thrifty, highly literate, self-disci- 
plined Danes not only take excellent care of the resources they have 
but make an effort to stabilize their population. In other words the 
third factor, culture, is involved, too. We express this relationship 
by using the symbol for function, or relationship, thus : 



(|)y (C) 



This of course can be read forward or backward, for the / represents 
interrelation. Doubtless in primitive society R was the big thing, 
shaping culture and ruthlessly controlling population. With simple 
arts man is highly dependent on the kind and amount of readily 
available resources about him. But as culture advances new resources 
and new methods of using them develop, while population adjusts 
itself — or fails to do so — by virtue of cultural attitudes and practices. 

Then in turn the culture responds and the ways in which it does so 
would offer an intriguing approach to the study of man's history. As 
the fraction E./P increases, to what extent is this reflected in wealth, 
leisure, creative work, and the good life? As it decreases, to what 
extent do we have poverty, social injustice, abuse of power and human 
disintegration ? Such a study would not be easy. One would have to 
avoid oversimplification and the tendency to judge other cultures in 
terms of his own. He would confront the problem of rugged and 
infertile Scotland with its peremiial contributions of human great- 
ness as well as that of the fair Pacific isles where the necessities of 
life are more generously offered and where one may echo the words 
"Happy the land that has no history !" 

Yet he would have to scratch deep in both instances to get at the 
truth. In doing so he would certainly see that some elements of 
Scotch character are based upon self-discipline in relation to meager 
resources. He would find that strict monogamy, combined with 
the control of male numbers by clan warfare and later by emigration, 
had afforded some measure of cultural control of population. 

Among the less austere Polynesians he would find evidence of gen- 
uine, if unrecorded, human greatness of a different order, and plenty 
of concern with resources and population. The daily business of 
getting food from the sea was not for weaklings. Even less was the 
making and manning of great canoes that evidently put off from 
time to time on long voyages that in the end peopled all the distant 
habitable islands. And there is a persistent belief that the people 
of the Pacific had some means of regulating population pressures 
other than abortion, infanticide, cannibalism, and warfare. At any 
rate, they developed a way of life that worked and was good enough 
for us to envy even as we were trying to change it. How else can 
we describe our efforts to get them to switch from grass skirts to 



THE ECOLOGY OF MAN — SEARS 393 

Mother Hubbards, to drink beer, and to buy things from us instead 
of gathering them from sea and strand or making them from the 
simple materials about them? I even suspect that the average in- 
dividual, given a shot of truth serum and asked to describe the archi- 
tecture of his own personal Heaven, would ha,ve less to say of a city 
of jasper, golden streets, and gates of pearl than of blue seas, wav- 
ing palms, gentle breezes, and gentle people. 

One of the newer achievements of science is the means of judging 
fairl}^ cultures other than our own. How new this is may be judged 
from the prevalence of chauvinism, assorted snobberies such as rac- 
ism, and such durable terms as barbarian, gentile, provincial, and 
heathen. Even among trained observers the traditional approach 
has long been to judge other groups in terms of one's own culture 
as a standard. This might lead to contempt if not pity, or as in 
the French glorification of the American Indian during the I7th 
century, to a sentimental appraisal equally far from the truth. The 
Hebrews who had, we must admit, a precious ethical concept at stake, 
had harsh words for those who married outside the nation. Later 
than this, renascent Europe dubbed Marco Polo a liar for his remark- 
able account of Cathay. In Mexico, a tough old soldier, Bernal Diaz, 
came nearer to clear and honest observation than his contemporaries, 
bent as they were on erasing what they found. 

But just as in geology a revolution came about through assuming 
that the past was to be explained by processes going on today before 
our eyes, so the study of man has been revolutionized by a simple as- 
sumption. This is, in effect, the assumption that any culture has its 
own internal logic that makes sense, so to speak, from the inside. Dif- 
ferences, per se, are not disgraceful and certainly not pathological. 
They are instead a means of understanding culture itself, to be ap- 
proached with respect and in the context of environment, past and 
present, physical, biological, and social. Working on this assumption 
for not much more than a generation, anthropologists have given us 
not only a great deal of information but a most useful perspective 
on human cultures, including our own. 

It follows that in working with any culture, no matter how generous 
our intent or how advanced our own technical knowledge and practice 
may be, we must approach the problem with an open mind. For each 
culture, like each landscape, is in some respects unique, and has its own 
values, its own rationale, and its own instrumentalities of change. 

We are rather given, because of the dazzling achievements of our 
own culture, to assume that what we regard as good for it must neces- 
sarily be good for all. This is even true as we look about us within our 
own culture. We are inclined to feel sorry for anyone who must drive 
a small car instead of a big one, and who must take his vacation near 
home instead of in Bermuda, and to consider such a situation as a flaw 



394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

in our system. But much more so do we manifest this attitude toward 
the "underdeveloped" and "underprivileged" of other lands. Perhaps 
they do not feel sorry for themselves until we suggest that they should. 
But whatever their needs, the doctor ought write no prescription until 
he has seen and understood the patient. 

We now have more than a hint that any culture with its system of 
behavior and sanctions (ultimately expressed in esthetic forms) can 
be viewed as a dynamic process moving toward reduction of internal 
strain and external stress. To the extent that this is true it exemplifies 
the universal trend of process in the inorganic and organic realms. 
But while inorganic systems of matter and energy tend toward repose, 
those that involve life exhibit a countertendency so long as energy is 
available to keep them going. For, through the action of plants in 
storing solar energy, they have developed a peculiar pattern of flow 
and transformation — a kind of postponed benefit approximating what 
is known as a "steady state." 

This amounts to a situation in which solar energy is fixed into or- 
ganic compounds instead of being immediately dissipated as heat and 
so becoming "bound," that is, unavailable for further work under ex- 
isting conditions. Bound energy is somewhat analogous to water that 
has fallen from a high level to such a low one that no further fall is 
possible. The phenomenon is expressed by saying that the entropy of 
our system — earth-sun — is increasing as energy flows from the sun's 
high intensity to the earth's low. Except as energy is intercepted and 
stored in such a way that it can be made to do work, it becomes bound. 
It may be intercepted by the evaporation of water into the atmos- 
phere or the creation of atmospheric high-pressure areas. But when 
the water gets back to sea level and winds have blown themselves out, 
such energy becomes bound at last. 

By comparison, energy impinging on living communities and stored 
in carbon compounds sustains a variety of forms of life, promoting 
their individual and group organization, enhancing the capacity of 
the habitat to sustain life, regulating the economy of water movement 
and chemical transformations — in short, doing work but maintaining 
the system at a high level of efficiency at the same time. It suggests 
an industrial plant plowing back income into maintenance. 

Although animals, including man, are consumers of energy-bearing 
carbon compounds, they can contribute to maintaining the balance of 
the system so long as they do not disrupt it. Insects pollinate plants 
and many animals disseminate them. Mineral nutrients are dis- 
tributed, as for example when hordes of salmon bring scarce nutrient 
salts from the sea inland when they come up to spawn in regions that. 



THE ECOLOGY OF MAN — SEARS 395 

like our own Northwest, are deficient in iodine and calcium. Beaver 
dams, retarding the flow of water, tend to equalize it through the year 
and so enhance its ability to sustain life on land before it returns to 
the sea. Burrowing anunals, vertebrate and invertebrate, aerate and 
enrich the soil. And so it goes, exemplifying the principle that as life 
has developed it has achieved an ever-increasing role in modifying the 
earth. But this it does by virtue of delaying — not reversing, as some 
would have it — the relentless increase of entropy in our system. In 
this process lies the margin of life over death. 

Now man, at the apex of evolution, is the inheritor and beneficiary 
of this magnificent pattern. He has at his disposal not merely the 
fruits of today's biological activity, but of vast, though finite, stores of 
organic compounds formed by living communities in the past and now 
available as fossil fuel — coal, oil, and gas. He has had at his disposal, 
too, fertile soils formed and stabilized through preceding ages. More 
than this, he has, in modern science, the means to comprehend his 
position, as well as to intensify his use of what he has found, and 
devise a multitude of new uses for substances both familiar and 
previously unknown. 

If we may for the moment draw upon the poetic insight of ancient 
times expressed in the third chapter of Genesis, the promise of the 
serpent has been fulfilled to a measure undreamed. "Your eyes shall 
be opened and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil." Humanity 
now has, as never before, the means of knowing the consequences of 
its actions and the dreadful responsibility for those consequences. 
Powerful as are the means that science affords in the way of relieving 
the human body and mind of effort, human beings are still confronted 
with the necessity of making decisions. And debate as we will as to 
the freedom of our choices, we have no better means at present than to 
designate this problem of choice as a moral problem. Even the indi- 
vidual who proclaims himself amoral has made a moral choice, that is 
a choice of values as well as means. 

Now values are qualitative and intuitive, largely, and hence assumed 
to be beyond the reach of quantitative science and none of its affair. So 
we have the spectacle of human life now being transformed by dy- 
namics thought to be quite independent of all the traditional controls 
that have been so painfully worked out through thousands of years of 
history, prehistory, and even prehuman evolution. It is like a vehicle 
of tremendous speed and power whose steering mechanism has no 
functional connection with it, or, at best, one not designed to control it. 

The dazzling success of quantitative exact science as an instrument 
makes matters worse by throwing into deep shadow those aspects of 
human experience that cannot be expressed by formula and diagram. 
This is not new. The inlierent tendency of every human group has 



396 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN mSTITUTION, 1958 

always been to seek for some kind of order, and there is magic in 
formulas. 

One fact ought not escape notice. Those who have explored most 
profoundly the field of measurement, calculation, and analysis which 
is the cornerstone of modern technology have been the first and most 
vocal group to remind us of what I have called our moral obligation. 
The physicists and mathematicians have risked social and political dis- 
favor and in some instances incurred its penalties for their insistence 
that man must be the master, not the slave, of his own technology. And 
I may add that the distinction of these Condon lectureships has been 
vastly enhanced by recognition of one such individual. Dr. 
Oppenheimer. 

Perhaps the mathematician understands more clearly than most of 
us that any enterprise of the human mind must start with certain 
assumptions. Perhaps, too, mathematicians (leaving skill aside) excel 
chiefly in the clarity with which they formulate their assumptions and 
the systematic rigor with which they examine and reexamine them and 
follow out tlieir consequences. Unless I am mistaken, the assumptions 
with which mathematics began had their roots deep in human 
experience. 

To what degree can we apply this model to the ecology of man ? I 
make the initial assumption that it is worth trying. Eeviewing what 
has been presented in the earlier part of these lectures, it is clear that 
man is an expression of an infinitely long process. He is not only a part 
of that process, but has achieved a unique power to modify it, is affected 
by what he does in that respect, and is, beyond all previous degree, now 
able to know what he is doing. 

Here, then, comes the first great choice of assumptions. Shall we 
assume that the human enterprise is worth perpetuating so long as 
cosmic conditions permit, which is likely to be a long time indeed? 
Three choices are possible — disregard, denial, and affirmation, each 
fraught with fateful consequences. Our present culture is a confused 
expression of all three and could do with some of the discipline of the 
mathematician. 

It would be interesting, if space permitted, to explore the extensive 
realm of those who disregard or deny. Not all who choose to disregard 
do so from indifference. Not all who deny lack human compassion. 
And a considerable portion of both confuse the issue by presenting the 
world with issue of their own to face its assumed futility in generations 
to come! 

We are left, then, to choose the third assumption — that the human 
adventure is worth its salt. Not a bad idea, either in theory or prac- 



THE ECOLOGY OF MAN — SEARS 397 

tice, as a basic value for responsible — that is, moral — human conduct. 
It is the only choice that justifies serious attention to the ecology of 
man and demands its skillful application to human affairs. It implies 
concern for mankind in the longest perspective of time. Unfortu- 
nately it still does not commit us to an equal concern for all men of all 
cultures everywhere. The mandate to survive has often been con- 
strued as warrant to eliminate or subordinate others. 

Here we find ourselves treading near an ancient pitfall, as dangerous 
today as ever. If we deny full humanity to others, we are in a poor 
position to claim it for ourselves, let alone for our remote descendants. 
There is the further and very practical consideration that as in evolu- 
tion no species of plant or animal has ever had its own way completely, 
so in history no culture has succeeded in doing so. Now that the world 
community is ever more tightly linked by new powers of travel, com- 
munication, and access to knowledge, it is less likely than ever that any 
group, ethnic or cultural, will ever have its way without mutual con- 
cession and, ultimately, mutual understanding and sympathy. 

Indeed the whole lesson of evolutionary history demonstrates that 
the power of life over nonlife lies not in uniformity, but in diversity 
within unity. Just so the richness of any hmnan community lies in 
the diversity of personalities, capacities, and interests within the unity 
of community spirit. To live is to live and let live. 

Indeed it may be that in this old and battered saying we may find a 
clue to the effective use of what we can learn from ecology. If we de- 
sire to preserve our own kind throughout the long future, we must 
preserve a decent solicitude for life in all its manifestations, for the 
environment that makes life possible, and for those magnificent proc- 
esses within the environment that have made it what it is. 

Manifestly we cannot get the benefits of ecology merely by leaving 
matters to the specialist, as we do so largely with other sciences. 
Rather we must apply the knowledge of the specialist to matters of 
common consent to our patterns of living. This means that we must 
to some degree share the knowledge of the ecologist, not so much in 
details, as in its general aspects. To do this requires a new emphasis 
in much that we learn throughout the schools. It calls for no new 
subjects, but rather a reinterpretation of what is now taught, to make 
clear man's place in nature and his responsibility to guide the new 
forces he has invoked. 

Meanwhile time speeds by. We need not wait for a new and en- 
lightened generation. Each of us can begin quite simply by learning 
to look about himself, wherever he may be. Let him learn to know his 
own environment, its history and its components, living and inorganic. 
Let him conceive of himself, not as a detached watcher, but as an 
inseparable part of what is around him. And then go on from there. 



398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

REFERENCES FOR FURTHER READING 

Bates, Mabston. 

1952. Where winter never comes. A study of man and nature in the Tropics. 
Charles Scribner's Sons, New York. 

This book is a nontechnical presentation of the problems of man in 
the Tropics studied from the ecological and cultural approaches. 
Thomas, William L., Jr. (Editor). 

1956. Man's role in changing the face of the earth. An international sym- 
posium under the cochairmanship of Carl Sauer, Marston Bates, and 
Lewis Mumford. Sponsored by the Wenner-Gren Foundation for 
Anthropological Research. University of Chicago Press, Chicago. 
The reader will find in this volume authoritative papers together 
with discussion of them by the participants in the symposium on most 
of the facets of the problems of man and his environment. The papers 
include selected bibliographies which will enable the reader to explore 
the subject further. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as 
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 



The Sea Otter' 



By Karl W. Kenyon 
United States Fish and Wildlife Service 



[With 6 plates] 



In general form the sea otter Enhydra lutris resembles the weasel 
and river otter, of which animals it is a large relative. The male 
attains a weight of 85 pomids, the female about 65 pomids ; the young 
at birth weigh from 3 to 5 pounds. It is peculiar among members of 
its family, the Mustelidae, in having deserted dry land and fresh 
water to take up a marine life. Among marine mammals it is pecu- 
liar in its adaptation to the sea. It does not possess an insulating 
layer of blubber but is protected from the chill of North Pacific 
waters by a blanket of air trapped among the fine and closely packed 
fibers of its inch-long delicate fur. Unlike the river otter and fur 
seal, the sea otter has but little protective coating of guard hair. 
The fine guard hairs present add to its beauty but do not offer much 
protection to the soft underfur. Unlike other marine mammals, the 
sea otter has never taken to the open sea. It usually feeds in shallow 
water from 5 to 50 feet in depth. Its food consists primarily of 
such sedentary forms as sea urchins, rock oysters, mussels, a variety 
of snail-like mollusks and, in California, abalones. Occasionally 
fish and octopus are eaten. 

Although the sea otter is not ideally adapted to its marine environ- 
ment, it is far more at ease in the water than ashore. The flipper- 
like hind feet are clumsy on land and the long flexible body, some- 
what like a liquid-filled bag, is poorly suited to walking. Wlien otters 
haul out to sleep or preen, they seldom venture more than a few feet 
from the water. 

Otters come ashore in greatest numbers when storm waves make 
food diving difficult. When the weather is calm they usually sleep 
on the surface of the sea, simply pulling a strand of kelp over their 
bodies, resting the head on the chest and placing their forepaws over 
their eyes. But often in the Aleutians during calm summer weather, 



^ Printed by permission of The Fauna Preservation Society, with some revision, from 
Oryx, vol. 4, No. 3, November 1957. 

399 



400 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

when the tide is low at night, they haul out at favorite spots to sleep. 
Mothers with young frequently bring their pups ashore about sun- 
down to remain on the rocks until daybreak. 

In the Aleutians at least, the breeding season is not well defined. 
Newly born pups appeared as numerous in early December of 1957 
as they had been in the spring and summer of previous years. Pres- 
ent indications are, as early sea otter hunters reported, that breeding 
is continuous throughout the year. Mating takes place in the water 
and the mated pair may remain together for several days. During 
this period they make food dives side by side. They also choose a 
favorite rock where they haul out in close company to sleep and 
preen between feeding periods. This postmating association is ap- 
parently more desired by the male than the female. Since a male 
appears to require more food than the female, he sometimes leaves 
the resting rock to dive for food nearby, while the female remains 
behind to preen. In several instances I watched the female quietly 
slip into the water and leave her mate while he was beneath the sur- 
face. On discovering her absence, the male became quite excited 
and began a systematic search of all likely rocks, rising half out of 
the water to look onto them or actually climbing up to search their 
tops. In the cases I observed, the female was successful in eluding 
her mate. 

Like other marine mammals the sea otter bears but one pup at a 
time, but, unlil?:e most of them, the mother otter gives her offspring 
constant and careful attention over a relatively long period, probably 
mitil it is nearly a year old. For several months the pup receives 
most of its nourishment from its mother's two abdominal nipples, 
though at an early age it may also beg for and receive parts of sea 
urchins and mollusks that its mother is eating. She carries her pup 
on her chest while she herself swims on her back. On this floating 
platform the pup nurses, sleeps, and receives almost constant preening 
from its mother's mobile and sensitive forepaws. The mother leaves 
her pup only when she dives for food and a food dive seldom lasts 
more than a minute. Wliile the mother is below the surface the pup 
usually sleeps, buoyed up by the air enclosed in its long, clean, dry 
fur. After each such dive the mother swims to her pup's side, where 
she eats the food that she has carried to the surface enclosed by a fore- 
leg and a fold of loose skin across her chest. If her pup has drifted 
with the wind, she takes it onto her chest and returns it to the area 
in which she wishes to feed. 

Sea otter pups are playful and, if a mother is feeding near sheltered 
kelp-covered rocks, the pup will often play in the gentle surge among 
the slippery strands. Once I watched a pup working its way around 
the rocks until it was hidden from its mother's view. Suddenly it 
missed her and uttered a harsh, frightened cry. Confused by the echo 



THE SEA OTTER — KENYON 



401 



of the sound, the mother screamed in distress and swam frantically 
about. Both animals appeared almost hysterical by the time the 
mother discovered her wandering offspring; then she clasped it to 
her chest and swam rapidly away from shore to preen and fondle it 
before beginning to feed in more open water. 

In November and December of 1957 we kept a mother with a new- 
born pup in an artificial pool on Amchitka. At first the mother was 




Fig. 1. — Sea otter, sketched from life. Amchitka Island, Alaska, 1957. 

possessive and defensive, clinging constantly to her pup. Within 3 
days she accepted our presence and while she was eating would allow 
her pup to eat small pieces of fish from our hands. However, she 
watched intently and when I took the pup aside to weigh it, dropped 
her food, screamed, and standing on her hind legs with her forefeet 
against me attempted to grasp her pup in her teeth. She demonstrated 
no inclination, however, to bite me. After receiving her pup she 
refused for some time to let it go again. 

One night a blizzard loosened the latch on the enclosure door and 
it blew open. Leaving her sleeping pup on some dry bedding the 
mother ventured forth and in the early morning I found her swimming 
in the sea nearby, calling shrilly to her still sleeping pup. After 



402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

getting a helper, I awakened the pup, which immediately answered 
its mother. She promptly dashed ashore and into waiting hands 
which returned her to her pup. Early sea otter hunters recounted that 
if a pup was taken from its mother she would follow, screaming, after 
the hunting boat. On several occasions at Amchitka I have seen 
mother otters carrying their dead pups for a number of hours. That 
a strong maternal instinct continues until the young is nearly fully 
grown is frequently observed. 

Late one summer afternoon on Amchitka Island in the Aleutians 
I watched a mother with a large pup, probably a yearling, hauled out 
on a rock below my hide. The pup investigated the rocky shelf, then 
went to the water's edge as if to swim. The mother watched intently 
and just as it appeared about to leave the rock, she rolled forward, 
grasped a hind flipper in her teeth and drew the surprised youngster 
back beside her. 

PAST HISTORY 

Sea otter fur was held in high esteem among Chinese of noble 
birth from early times. The second expedition of Vitus Bering, which 
sailed from Kamchatka in 1741, opened to the fur hunters of Russia, 
the proniyshlennihi^ the vast fur resources of Alaska. To Bering's 
starving men, marooned for the winter on the beaches of the island 
now known as Bering Island, sea otter flesh became a primary means 
of sustenance. The rich furs brought home by survivors of this tragic 
adventure soon stimulated others to seek fortunes among foggy, storm- 
beaten Alaska islands. Sea otters, being by nature trusting, were 
rapidly decimated, but the rugged nature of these islands and the 
frequent violent storms offered more natural protection than in milder 
latitudes along the Pacific coast. 

The human deluge, which to this day is swelling the populations 
of Alaska and the northwest coast of the United States, received 
additional impetus in 1779 when the ships of Capt. James Cook 
dropped anchor at Macao after having visited Nootka Sound, Van- 
couver Island. Cook's crew suddenly discovered that skins which 
they were using as bedclothing and garments, and which they had 
purchased cheaply from the Indians, were worth thousands of dollars. 
Thereafter the soft fur of the sea otter was the objective of many 
of those who explored the coast and islands of the eastern North 
Pacific Ocean and, in 1785, the brig Sea Otter became the first ship 
to engage in the sea otter trade on the Pacific northwest coast. 

Under the direction of white fur hunters, sea otters were merci- 
lessly pursued, sometimes by teams of Indians in canoes; in more 
remote areas by white hunters in light skiffs carried to the otter grounds 
in larger ships. On bleak shores men waited for weeks among the 
rocks to shoot any otter that came within rifle range. Others sta- 



THE SEA OTTER — KENTON 403 

tioned themselves at the tops of giant tripods, erected near favorite 
feeding or resting areas. Neither mothers nor pups were spared. 
A pup skin brought about $60, the skins of adults $200 to $300. So 
highly was the sea otter prized that by the end of the 19th century 
it had been hunted almost to extinction. The otters living off the 
western coasts of the United States were in fact thought to be extinct. 
However, in 1938 a group of 94 sea otters was discovered near Mon- 
terey, Calif. A reported 1957 count by Dr. Boolootian of 644 otters 
between Point Conception and Carmel Bay might indicate that at 
least 1,000 otters now inhabit the coastal waters of California. None 
have yet been reported from Oregon. A recent report, in August 
1958, of sea otters seen on the outer Washington coast, although not 
confirmed, sounds encouraging. Recently observers have reported sea 
otters from British Columbia waters but their identification has not 
so far been confirmed. In 1929 a sea otter was taken in Kyuquot 
Sound. This is the last authentic occurrence. 

In 1786 the Pribilof Islands were discovered by Russian fur hunters 
and their history demonstrates the course of thoughtless exploitation. 
In the first year of occupation as many as 5,000 sea otters were killed. 
By 1811 they were scarce animals and during the next 30 years were 
virtually exterminated. The last recorded skin in the Pribilofs was 
taken from an otter found dead in 1892. Of this once-thriving 
colony only scattered bones remain. 

Fortunately some sea otters remained in the Aleutian chain of is- 
lands and this remnant received protection in 1911, under a treaty 
whose main purpose was to save the North Pacific fur seals. The 
seal populations have rapidly recovered; the recovery of the sea 
otters, on the other hand, has been slow. 

SEA OTTER LIFE STUDIES 

Some years ago the United States Fish and Wildlife Service de- 
cided to make a detailed study of the sea otter, both in the wild and in 
captivity. It was also hoped that isolated parts of its former range, 
such as the Pribilof Islands, might be restocked from remote places 
where high populations now exist. As the sea otter seldom ventures 
far from land, natural dispersal takes place slowly. 

The place chosen for the studies was Amchitka Island which, except 
for its isolation and its distance of nearly 3,000 miles by the usual 
route from headquarters at Seattle, was an ideal place for the work. 
The island is approximately 40 miles long and from 1 to 4 miles wide, 
with a coastline of about 120 miles. The climate is windswept and 
fogbound — quite miserable by human standards, but apparently most 
appealing to sea otters. The otter population appears to be at, or very 
near, its natural maximum. As with deer on a heavily grazed range, 
a hard winter may leave many animals dead in its wake. Recent esti- 



404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITXJTION, 1958 

mates, based on sample field counts, place the population there at 
between 4,000 and 6,000. 

The first stage of the work on the sea otter was done in the late 
1940's by Eobert D. Jones, manager of the Aleutian Wildlife Refuge. 
He found that the otters were very difficult to keep in captivity, and 
as a result of his recommendations. Dr. Donald Stulken and Dr. C. M. 
Kirkpatrick, both of Purdue University, went to Amchitka with a 
Fish and Wildlife team to study the physiology of sea otters and 
their response to conditions in captivity. Meanwhile Dr. Robert 
Rausch, parasitologist, of the Arctic Health Research Centre, con- 
ducted studies of animals found dead on the beaches during winter 
"die offs." As a result of all this work considerable knowledge was 
accumulated, and three captive otters were fuially brought to Seattle 
by Mr. Jones in 1954. They were in excellent condition upon arrival 
but unfortunately succumbed when transferred to the National Zoo- 
logical Park in Washington, D.C. 

In 1955 a Fish and Wildlife team, including the author and under 
the leadership of Ford Wilke, captured sea otters at Amchitka and 
liberated 16 of them at Otter Island in the Pribilofs. Unexpectedly 
frigid weather conditions, with ice floes, complicated by the weakened 
condition of the captive animals, probably prevented their survival. 

Work on Amchitka continues. During Vv'orld War II the island 
had been used as a harbor and air base and it offers today disintegrat- 
ing but usable facilities for our field studies. From the front porch 
of our salvaged quarters on clear days we watch the sea otters as they 
dive for food near the mouth of Constantine Harbor or haul out to 
sleep and preen on the small rocky islets there. But often, during 
smnmer months especially, this place of observation becomes useless. 
Fosr banks move in about the island and remain for weeks at a stretch. 
In order to observe the otters closely it has been necessary to construct 
a hide on a cliff above a favorite feeding and resting area. From this 
vantage point, with binoculars and telescope, we may watch the otters 
on all but the foggiest of days. 

In addition to studies on Amchitka a comprehensive aerial popu- 
lation survey in Alaska was undertaken by the Fish and Wildlife 
Service in the fall of 1957. Unfortunately, remote areas in the 
Aleutians, where a considerable part of the sea otter population ap- 
pears to exist, could not be covered because of adverse weather. How- 
ever, Dr. Calvin J. Lensink, who took a leading part in this project 
under the Branch of Wildlife Research, prepared total sea otter 
population estimates which indicate that sea otters have now re- 
populated a large part of their former range and that their numbers 
are increasing and spreading at an encouraging rate. Certainly 
the number in Alaskan waters can be placed conservatively at 30,000 
animals. Dr. Lensink plans to publish a detailed report of his work. 



THE SEA OTTER — ^KENTON 405 

Sven Waxell, second in command of Vitus Bering's shipwrecked 
crew, recorded that when they first reached shore on Bering Island 
the sea otters were quite tame but became wild after being hunted. 
It is not surprising, then, that the unmolested otters at Amchitka 
are not particularly wild, but we were surj)rised at the degree to which 
a wild otter could be tamed. In November of 1957 we began tossing 
fish heads to a young adult male that habitually loitered near our 
fish-cleaning platform. Within a few days he would come close to 
the beach at our call and within a week would come to the water's 
edge to take fish heads from our hands. In another week he became 
a pest, walking boldly up to us and demanding food. Without the 
need of a net we caught him and placed a metal tag in the web of his 
hind Hipper. Not in the least upset by this indignity he demanded his 
fish before returning to the water. Wild sea otters never eat on land, 
and so our "wild" pet often returned with difficulty over cobbles and 
boulders to the sea while attempting to walk on three legs, clasping 
fish heads to his chest with the fourth. 

THE SEA OTTER IN CAPTIVITY 

The sea otter is a most appealing animal in captivity as well as in 
the wild. Although individual characteristics of the animals differ, 
we find that many of them are very tractable and will quietly take 
food from our hands within a few minutes of capture. On the other 
hand, a yearling female that we caught in September 1955 was so 
shy that nearly a week passed before she could be induced to take 
food that we held out to her. When first captured, she leaned 
against the back of her cage in a half -sitting position watching our 
movements wide-eyed, as if in astonishment. When we brought her 
sea urchins and fish she placed her forepaws on her cheeks and 
hissed in a very catlike way, or pushed the proffered food away with 
her paws. After she became accustomed to us she readily took food 
from our hands, never offering to bite with her strong canine teeth. 
This animal is now in excellent health at the Woodland Park Zoo 
in Seattle. By the spring of 1957 she had nearly reached adult size 
and appears well adapted to life in captivity. In December of 1957 
we captured a young male on Amchitka which shared her Seattle 
quarters until he died in September of 1958. Acute hemorrhagic 
enteritis appeared to be the imraediate cause of death. 

Sea otters require a large amount of food, which poses a difficult 
problem when captives are kept at Amchitka. In order to supply 
the minimum of 6 to 8 pounds of fresh fish required daily by each 
adult otter, a dory must be launched, nets set and pulled daily. In the 
stormy, chilly winds that sweep the Bering Sea such a project is a 
major undertaking when it must be conducted on a sustained basis. 
Our captive female in Seattle weighs 39 pounds and eats approxi- 



406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

mately 10 pounds of filleted fish, octopus, and clams each day. The 
male weighed 64 pounds and ate about 15 pounds daily. Thus, food 
intake amounts to about one-quarter of the body weight for each 
animal daily. Sea otters are often temperamental and will suddenly 
refuse to eat one kind of food which previously was preferred, while 
eating ravenously something entirely different. Dried or canned 
foods have been consistently rejected. One day, however, a zoo of- 
ficial told a visitor, preparmg to toss a slice of bread to the sea otters, 
not to do it because the animals would not eat bread. The visitor 
disregarded instructions and, surprisingly, the otter ate the bread. 

The use of a rock, held on the chest of an otter, as a base against 
which to break the hard shells of mollusks, has often been described. 
When rocks and clams were placed in our captive's pool, she gathered 
them from the bottom and, holding the clams between her forepaws, 
banged them against the rock resting on her chest until the shells broke, 
thus confirming at close range what had previously been observed only 
at a distance. 

The manual dexterity of the sea otter is well illustrated by the unique 
habit described above, but we found our captives ingenious in other 
respects. The drain in the zoo pool was covered by metal mesh which 
fitted snugly m place. This the otter promptly removed when she 
entered the pool. Apparently the dark hole beneath fascinated her. 
Since food scraps plugged the open drain, her keeper secured a band 
of strap iron over the mesh with a bolt that projected above it. Un- 
daunted, the sea otter pounded the bolt with a rock until she succeeded 
in dislodging it. Rocks have now been removed from the pool, for in 
addition to attacking the drain she whiled away idle hours by pound- 
ing the edges of the pool until the cement was considerably damaged. 

The problem of adjusting sea otters to captivity so that they may be 
successfully transplanted is a challenging one and we still face many 
difficulties. Captive animals, when held in small cages and deprived 
of free access to water, often die of enteritis, pneumonia, or infections 
of the extremities. The difficulty of keeping their soft fur clean and in 
waterproof condition is complicated by the fact that they like to eat 
while lying on their backs and that their natural food contains an 
abundance of slimy fluid. Unless adequate facilities are provided 
for washing, their fur quickly becomes matted with foreign matter. 
The animals soon become wet to the skin, chilling results, and, after 
several hours of distress, death usually follows. After traveling by 
air in cramped cages the two otters brought to the Seattle zoo required 
a week of painstaking care before their fur regained its waterproof 
insulating qualities. Frequent indoor warm-water baths followed by 
periods of drying in heaps of shredded paper were necessary to prevent 
chilling. Doses of antibiotics during this critical period prevented 
the usual infections. 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Kenyon 



Plate 1 




1. While feeding, a motlier sea otter allrjws her young pup to float on the surface. This 
mother has just finished eating and is about to grasp her pup in her forelegs to place it 
on her chest. 




2. A mother sea otter preens her pup's fur while the pup nurses from her abdominal nipples. 
Usually a pup nurses while its mother floats on her back, but occasionally, especially in 
late afternoon, the mother takes her pup ashore where she preens and dries its fur and 
allows the pup to nurse. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Kenyon 



Plate 2 




I 



1. During an afternoon resting period a mother sea otter carries her sleeping pup on li 

chest. 




2. While heavy storm waves pound outer reefs ofT Amchitka beaches, otters frequently re- 
tire to sheltered beaches where they sleep. This old male has just been aroused and is 
about to plunge into the water. 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Kenyon 



PLATE 3 




1. Bill Golley, an Aleutian native, has just netted a sea otter. Cal Lensink helps him land 
it on a slippery kelp-covered rock. The battered hulk in the background is the Crown 
Reefer which was driven on this reef during a storm in 1946. 




2. A newly captured 70-pound male otter is carried from the beach across tundra to the road. 
Otters have favorite hauling grounds where they can be approached and netted while 
they sleep. Although they frantically fight to free themselves from the net when first 
captured, they quickly accept captivity and become tame. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Kenyon 



PLATE 4 




I 



I. A wild otter accepts a tis: ■ >. I'jm the hand of Robert Krear. This ■ . ncred 
near our fish-cleaning platform where he was given fish scraps. He soon learned to leave 
the water and follow us to beg for food. 




2. A captive female otter pounds a clam held in her paws against one resting on her chest 
in order to break the shell. A rock may also be held on the chest for use as an anvil 
on which to break hard-shelled mollusks. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Kenyon 
I 



PUATE 5 




1. A captive sea otter squints as she pounds a clam on the cement edge of her 
pool. Although the whiskers grow long in captivity, they are characteristically abraded 
short on wild animals. 




2. An adult sea otter, his forepaws pillowing his head, rests among rocks of an Amchitka 

beach. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Kenyon 



PLATE 6 




1. A mother otter clasps her week-old pup to her chest as both stare in surprise at the 

photographer. 




2. Adult sea otters. 



THE SEA OTTER — KENYON 407 

During 1957 field studies on Amchitka we constructed a large 
artificial i>ool with a supply of running fresh water. In this we found 
that otters remained healthy and quickly adjusted to a feeding sched- 
ule. But results were disastrous when we attempted to transport them 
by air, as we had previously done successfully. They became highly 
excited when suddenly transferred from the pool and large enclosure 
to small traveling cages and died as a result of lung hemorrhages after 
a few hours of air travel. This was an unexpected development, since 
other animals previously carried by air had not died from this cause. 
Even tranquilizers failed to remedy the situation. 

Through our study program, which embraces the keeping of otters 
in captivity and understanding their habits in the wild, we hope to 
enlarge our knowledge of their ecology, life history, and populations. 
We are gratified to know that the sea otter is safe from extermination 
and hope that it may some day take its place with the northern fur 
seal as a valuable and renewable natural resource, under a carefully 
controlled program. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as 
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 

492520—59 27 



Screwworm Eradication: Concepts and Re- 
search Leading to the Sterile-Male Method 



By E. F. Knipling 

Entomology Research Division, Agricultural Research Service 
United States Department of Agriculture 



[With 6 plates] 

A NEW APPROACH to insect control is now being applied in the 
Southeastern United States to deal with the screwworm, Callitroga 
hominivorax (CqrL), one of our most damaging pests of livestock and 
game. The procedure involves the use of atomic radiations to produce 
sexual sterility in millions of insects reared in an insect factory. The 
sterile screwworm flies are then released against their own kind to 
defeat the primary purpose for their existence — reproduction. 

This unique insect-control program is being conducted by the Ani- 
mal Disease Eradication Division, Agricultural Research Service, U.S. 
Department of Agriculture, in cooperation with the Florida Livestock 
Board. It is the culmination of 8 years of pioneering research, 
both basic and applied, which was conducted by a group of Department 
of Agriculture entomologists with the Insects Affecting Man and 
Animals Research Branch of the Entomology Research Division. 

Utilizing knowledge of the effects of atomic radiations on insects 
and of screwworm life history, habits, and ecology, a method of bio- 
control has been developed which probably represents the ultimate in 
precision and efficiency. The research leading to this development has 
been described in a number of publications : Bushland and Hopkins 
(1951 and 1953), Baumhover et al. (1955), Lindquist (1955), and 
Knipling (1955). It will not be necessary, therefore, to discuss the 
details. However, it seems desirable to review the most significant 
features of the investigations and the control program now under way. 
It seems appropriate also to speculate on the place that the sterile-male 
method might have in the control of other major insect pests. 

SCREWWORM BIOLOGY, ECOLOGY, ECONOMIC SIGNIFICANCE, AND 
METHODS OF CONTROL 

The screwworm fly (pi. 1, fig. 1) is an obligatory parasite of warm- 
blooded animals. Eggs (pi. 1, fig. 2) numbering 200 to 300 are de- 

409 



410 -\XjSTJAL report SIVHTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195S 

posited in a compact muss on -vvomids of these animals. Tiie larvae 
hatch in less than 24 hours. They begin feeding on the tissues and 
reach maturity in about 5 days (pi. 2, lig.l). The larvae then leave 
the wound, drop to the ground, and enter the soil for pupation (pi. 2, 
fig. 2), emerging as adults in about 8 days during warm weather. 

Larvae cause severe destruction of tissues, producing a straw-colored 
and often a bloody discharge from the womid. An infestation attracts 
more screwworm flies, resulting in multiple infestations consisting of 
several hundred to several thousand larvae of all sizes (pi. 6). Feed- 
ing by the large number of larvae will kill the host miless the infesta- 
tion is destroyed and the womid is treated with protective remedies. 
Several screwworm smears and other preparations are in use to treat 
or prevent infestations. These remedies and good livestock-manage- 
ment practices which reduce the nmnber of susceptible wounds mini- 
mize losses. In spite of these control efforts, the insect causes losses 
in the United States which are estimated to vary from $20 million to 
$-iO million annually. An additional loss of game animals, particu- 
larly deer, cannot be measured in terms of dollars. 

The screwworm is largely a subtropical insect. Cold winter weather 
pushes the infestations into warmer areas. In the Southwest the 
winter survival area in south Texas usually does not exceed 30,000 to 
40,000 square miles. In the Southeast, during normal winters, the 
survival line is about as far north as Gainesville, Fla. In the spring 
there is an upsurge of screwworm flies, and the pest spreads rapidly. 
The rate of natural spread northward may be as much as 25 to 35 
miles per week. In addition to natural spread the insect often be- 
comes established early in the season outside of its normal range 
through shipment of infested animals and increases to damaging 
levels before frost. 

DEVELOPxMENT OF COiNCEPTS AND RESEARCH LEADING TO THE 
STERILE-MALE TECHNIQUE FOR CONTROL 

A. 'W. Lindquist (mipublished reports, 1935) obtained data which 
showed that the total number of screwworm flies in the environment 
is low in comparison with most insects. This significant feature in 
screwworm population dynamics has an important bearing on the 
use of sterile males for their control. Melvin and Busliland (1936) 
developed a method of rearing the insect on an artificial medium in 
the laboratory, wliich provided a vital link in the chain of events 
leading to the sterile-male technique for control. 

The possibilities of screwworm control by utilizing some natural 
or induced mutant characteristic that would not be detrimental to 
the insect when reared in the laboratory but would place it at a 
disadvantage in nature were first considered by the writer in 1937. 
Of the possible genetic approaches, the one that seemed to warrant 



SCREWWORM ERADICATION — KNIPLING 411 

most promise was the use of sterile males for release among a natural 
population of flies. Several entomologists and geneticians had dem- 
onstrated that X-rays would cause sexual sterility in insects. 

This approach to screwworm control was proposed to a number 
of scientists, but little enthusiasm for its posssibilities was gener- 
ated. The war years, which led to emphasis on medical entomology 
problems, delayed investigations. However, following the war more 
serious thought was given to the initiation of research on the prob- 
lem. Survey records of past years and published data on screw- 
worm incidence, particularly in the Southeast, were studied for the 
purpose of estimating the number of flies present in an area dur- 
ing periods of low population density. Potential costs of rearing the 
insect in t«rms of millions per week were calculated. Theoretical 
trends in the screwworm population were calculated on the assump- 
tion that it might be feasible to dominate the wild male population 
with sexually vigorous but sterile males. There were many unknowns 
in screwworm behavior, ecology, population dynamics, and reaction 
to irradiation, and it was recognized that failure of any one of sev- 
eral seemingly plausible assumptions could demonstrate the imprac- 
ticability of the method. However, the results of the theoretical cal- 
culations were too impressive to ignore. 

The decision to commit limited research funds to this approach 
was made following communications in 1950 with H. J. Muller of 
Indiana University, noted geneticist, Nobel prize winner, and author- 
ity on the effects of X-rays on organisms. When the general plan 
for screwworm eradication by the release of sexually sterile males was 
outlined to him, he responded with enthusiasm and encouragement 
and also offered advice on procedures to follow in determining the 
effects of X-rays on the insect. 

A definite research program on the problem was initiated in 1050. 
The work was undertaken at the Kerrville, Tex., laboratoiy, imder 
the able direction of E. C. Bushland. Before the X-ray studies were 
begun, G. W. Eddy, then with the Kerrville laboratory, made some 
observations on the frequency of mating among females of the screw- 
worms. These observations, later confirmed by Bushland, indicated 
that the females were monogamous in mating habits. At that time 
the f i-equency of mating by the females was regarded as a vital point 
in the potential feasibility of effecting control by the sterile-male 
approach. Information obtained since that time, hov/ever, indicate 
that although multiple matmg may reduce the effectiveness of sterile 
males, tliis is not necessarily a limiting factor in the successful appli- 
cation of this method. 

Bushland and Hopkins (1951) established that screwworm males 
could be made sterile by exposing pupae near maturity to 2,500 roent- 



412 AJSTNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

gens from X-rays. Sterility in the female resulted at a dosage of 5,000 
roentgens. 

Cage tests, in which irradiated males were in direct competition 
with normal fertile males, showed that the mating habits of the ster- 
ile males were essentially the same as for normal males. There was 
no evidence of discrimination on the part of females. However, fe- 
males that had mated with sterile males would not mate subsequently 
with fertile males. Wlien sterile and fertile males in ratios ranging 
from 1 : 1 to 9 : 1 were present in a cage with normal virgin females, 
the ratio of sterile to fertile egg masses produced by the females was 
essentially the same as the ratio of sterile to fertile males. The pres- 
ence of sterile females in the cages did not seem to alter the results. 

Thus numerous laboratory tests by these investigators, using X-ray 
equipment furnished by the Army at Fort Sara Houston, San Antonio, 
Tex., and a cobalt-60 irradiation unit provided by the Oak Ridge Na- 
tional Laboratory, indicated promise for screwworm population con- 
trol through the use of sterile males. 

The next stage in the investigations involved field experiments. 
Would the method reduce the biotic potential of natural screwworm 
populations? The answer to this question was not easily obtained. 
How many wild flies were emerging in an area during various seasons 
of the year ? How far and how soon after release would the released 
insects migrate, and would they disperse uniformly among the natural 
population? What ratio of sterile to fertile insects would be re- 
quired to start a downward trend in the natural population ? 

These were some of the many unknowns. Because of strong migra- 
tion tendencies of the flies, it proved futile to attempt to obtain reliable 
information in small to moderate-size areas surrounded by heavily 
infested territory. It was concluded that small isolated islands offered 
the best opportunities for valid tests with the research funds available. 
Consequently, one of the islands off the west coast of Florida, called 
Sanibel, having an area of 15 square miles, was selected for tests. Fer- 
tile flies heavily charged with P^^ were first released on the island at 
the rate of 100 females and 100 males per square mile to get some idea 
of the natural population. Eggs deposited by the released flies on 
host animals could be distinguished from those deposited by natural 
wild flies because of the radioactivity. The ratio of radioactive to 
nonradioactive agg masses obtained suggested that the release of 100 
reared males per week provided more released than wild flies in the 
population. A subsequent program in which sterile males were re- 
leased at the rate of 100 per square mile per weet resulted in virtual 
elimination of a natural population within a few months, but eradica- 
tion could not be demonstrated because a few fertile flies were migrat- 
ing onto the island from the mainland or nearby infested islands. 



SCREWWORM ERADICATION — KNIPLING 



413 



The opportunity for a more reliable experiment was afforded when 
arrangements were made for a cooperative program on Curagao in the 
Netherlands Antilles, an island of 170 square miles isolated by 40 miles 
from any other land area. An agreement was developed between the 
Governor of Curasao and the Administrator of the Agricultural Re- 
search Service to undertake a screwworm eradication experiment. 
A. H. Baumhover, who was in charge of field tests in Florida, con- 
ducted pretreatment surveys. Plans were made to rear and irradiate 
the screwworms at the Orlando, Fla., laboratory of the Entomology 
Research Division and then ship the pupae by air express to Curasao 
for distribution of the emerging flies. Over-all plans for the experi- 
ment were developed by R. C. Bushland, A. W. Lindquist, and the 
writer. Dr. Bushland was in charge of the entire program. A. H. 
Bamnhover and B. A. Bitter, veterinary officer on Curagao, were in 
charge of the work on Curasao, and A. J. Graham and D. E. Hopkins 
were in charge of screwworm production in Florida. These indi- 
viduals, who worked directly on the program, as well as several other 
assistants deserve great credit for their extraordinary efforts in the 
conduct of this program. 

The eradication attempt was started on August 9, 1954. Sterile 
screwworm flies were released on Curasao from airplanes at the rate 
of about 400 sterile males per square mile per week, which provided an 
estimated ratio of 3 or 4 sterile to 1 fertile insect in the population. 

Table 1 shows the results of egg-mass collections on host animals 
exposed in 11 locations on the island. The complete life cycle of the 
screwworm during warm weather requires about 3 weeks. It is indi- 
cated, therefore, that eradication was achieved in about four genera- 
tions. These results were more striking than any of us had hoped for. 
The population decline followed closely theoretical trends that had 
been calculated. 



Table 1. — Fertility of screwworm fly eggs and decline in number of egg masses in 
the eradication experiment on Curagao 



Weeks after start of experiment 


Number of egg masses 


Percent of 
sterile 




FertUe 


sterile 


egg masses 


1 ._. _. -. 


15 

17 

17 

10 

7 

3 








34 
38 
36 
37 
42 
23 
10 
12 



69 


2 .. - - 


69 


3 


68 


4 -- 


79 


5 __--_---- 


86 


6 . --_ - - 


88 


7 . 


100 


8 . --_ -_ -- 


100 


9 _. 









41^ 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 



I 



Table 2 shows the theoretical population trends when an insect 
population is assumed to be stable — that is, when one generation in the 
absence of special control effort would result in equal numbers of 
progeny in the next generation. The example also assumes that the 
ratio of two sterile to one fertile insect will result in a maximum theo- 
retical reduction in progeny. The figures show that a rapid and 
dramatic decline in an insect population is theoretically possible. It is 
realized that the maximum decline can hardly be expected in most 
situations. However, calculations indicate that if only 25 percent of 
the theoretical decline were achieved the end result would still be 
eradication after about seven generations. 

Table 2. — Theoretical population decline in each subsequent generation when a 
constant number of sterile males are released among a natural population of 1 
million females and 1 million males 



Generation 


NumbPr of ua- 

mated females 

in area 


Number of se.x- 

ually sterile males 

released 


Ratio of sterile 

to fertile males 

competing for 

each female 


Assumed per- 
centasie of fe- 
males mated to 
sterile males 


Theoretical 

number of 

fertUe females 


1 

2 


1, 000, 000 

333, 333 

47, 619 

1,107 


2, 000, 000 
2, 000, 000 
2, 000, 000 
2, 000, 000 


2:1 

6:1 

42:1 

1,807:1 


0G:7 
85.7 
97.7 
99.95 


333, 333 

47, 619 


3 


1,107 


4 


(0 



1 Less than 1. 

FURTHER RESEARCH POINTING TO SCREWWORM ERADICATION IN THE 
SOUTHEASTERN UNITED STATES 

Following the success on Curagao, the Florida Livestock Board 
urged further research to adapt the method for an eradication 
program for the Southeast and contributed funds to the effort. Addi- 
tional funds were appropriated by Congress to further support the 
expanded research program. The Insects xVifecting Man and Animals 
Eesearch Branch, under the direction of A. W. Lindquist, assigned 
additional members of the research staff to the project. Emphasis 
was placed on efficient and economical methods of rearing the millions 
of flies that would be needed for an eradication program, involving an 
area of 50,000 square miles or more. A small pilot plant having the 
capacity to produce 2 million flies per w^eek was constructed. Mass 
rearing methods were developed utilizing various types of media and 
rearing facilities as well as methods of handling the brood colony of 
flies to obtain the maximum number of eggs. Procedures were devised 
for irradiating large numbers of pupae, and for their proper care until 
adult emergence was completed. Equipment for dispersing the flies 
from aircraft was designed. 

There was little precedent to follow in developing the various pro- 
cedures required for such a program. Every operation required new 
tecliniques, new facilities, new equipment. Credit is due. each and 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Knipling 



Plate l 




1. Adult screwworm flies, male left, female right. The screwworm is about three times as 
large as the common house fly. 




2. Eggs of the screwworm fly. Each female deposits 200 to 300 eggs, usualh' in a single 
compact mass, on the edges of wounds on the host. (See pi. 6.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Knipling 



PLATE 2 




1. Larvae of the Screwworm flj' are two-thirds of an inch long when mature and about as 

thick as a kitchen match. 




2. Pupae of the screwworm fly form after mature larvae leave the wound and dig into 

the soil. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Knipling 



Plate 3 




1. The production of 50 miUion scicvvuwim iIils per week requires thousands of brood 
flies. The adults are held in cages of a different design and larger than shown here, and 
are fed honey and moist ground meat. After about 8 days eggs are obtained by exposing 
warmed screwworm media in the cages. 




2. The screwworm larvae are reared in large flat v^ats, as shown. About 200,000 larvae 
are produced in each vat after feeding on the ground meat-blood medium for about S 
days. 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Knipling 




Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Knipling 



PLATE 5 




1. Files emerge from irradiated pupae ii: paper boxes, and when ready for release are loaded 
in the airplane for distribution. 




2. A box containing 400 to 500 flies is forced iuio a chute in the airplane. A special device 
opens the box and releases flies at intervals of about one mile. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — ^KnlpUng 



PLATE 6 




SCREWWORM ERADICATION — KNIPLING 415 

every member of the staff. R. C. Bushland gave over-all direction to 
the research program which was carried out by C. L. Smith, A. H. 
Baumhover, A. J. Graham, C. N. Husman, D. E. Hopkins, and F. H. 
Dudley. 

By July 1957 most of the necessary information and procedures had 
been developed. A report outlining plans, procedures, and facility 
needs for an eradication program was prepared and considered by Fed- 
eral and State regulatory officials. The Florida livestock industry was 
instrumental in obtaining State appropriations and through their 
Congressmen obtained Federal appropriations for the Department of 
Agriculture. The responsibility for carrying out the program at the 
Federal level was assigned to the Animal Disease Eradication Divi- 
sion of the Agricultural Research Service. 

In the fall of 1957 construction was started on a large screw worm 
rearing plant at Sebring, Fla. Plans called for completion of the plant 
by July 1958. 

Then came a real break. The winter of 1957-58 was one of the most 
severe ever experienced in Florida. By December it was realized that 
unusually cold weather might push the overwintering screwworm deep 
into Florida. The Animal Disease Eradication Division proposed the 
initiation of the eradication as soon as possible with flies produced in 
the pilot plant. Together with the Entomology Research Division 
they devised a plan for releasing sterile flies in a zone below the over- 
wintering line to establish a barrier and prevent or delay the normal 
northward spring migration. Fly production started early in Jan- 
uary and the number produced was gradually increased until a maxi- 
mum of about 12 million per week were released in mid- July when the 
large rearing plant came into production. This timely release program 
prevented screwworm buildup in the northern half of Florida. The 
alertness in putting this program into effect may make it possible to 
achieve eradication of the insect much sooner than expected. 

The eradication program, under the able direction of Drs. R. S. 
Sharman and D. L. Williams of the Animal Disease Eradication 
Division and Drs. C. L. Campbell and M. E. Meadows, Jr., of the 
Florida Sanitary Board, was in full operation by September 1958. 
By February 1959 few screwworm cases were being found in the entire 
State of Florida. These men and their staff members are to be com- 
mended for their alertness and effectiveness in the conduct of the pro- 
gram. Success in achieving eradication of the screwworm in the 
Southeast is assured. 

The research leading to its development and the eradication pro- 
gram itself are probably the most unusual ever carried out in the 
annals of insect control. Details of the program and the facilities 
required have been described in a United States Department of Agri- 
culture publication issued in July 1958 by the Florida Livestock 

492520—59 28 



416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Board and the Animal Disease Eradication Division (Illustrated 
Descriptive Bulletin No. 1) and in Florida Information Office Illus- 
trated Bulletin No. 2, issued November 1958 by the Florida Live- 
stock Board and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The adult 
brood colony, consisting of thousands of flies (pi. 3, fig. 1), furnishes 
eggs to start the fly production. The larvae are reared in a medium 
consisting of ground meat and blood in large vats (pi. 3, fig. 2). The 
temperature of the medium is about 99° F., simulating body tempera- 
tures of the screwworm's hosts. The pupae are placed in screen-bot- 
tom trays (pi. 4, fig. 1) and held at 80° F. for about 6 days. They are 
then exposed to irradiation in a cobalt-60 gamma-ray unit (pi. 4, fig. 2) . 
The dosage is 8,000 roentgens, which assures sterility of both male and 
female insects. Several hundred irradiated pupae are then placed 
in special boxes, where they emerge in about 2 daj^s. The flies from 
each box are liberated at intervals of about a mile from planes as- 
signed to various sectors in the eradication area (pi. 5, figs. 1 and 2). 
The number of flies released per square mile varies with the number 
of sterile flies available and abundance of screwworms in the natural 
population. 

The following are a few statistics which indicate the magnitude 
of the program. The screwworm rearing plant is designed to pro- 
duce 50 million flies per week. The sterile insects (both sexes) are 
released at the average rate of 1,000 per square mile per week in an 
area of 50,000 square miles. About 80,000 pounds of ground meat 
and 4,500 gallons of blood are required per week as larval food. 
Six cobalt-60 units are available to irradiate the pupae. Twenty 
airplanes are needed to distribute the flies. The staff consists of 
200 to 300 workers in the fly-production plant and about 50 inspec- 
tors keep check on screwworm abundance and on the results of the 
operation, A group of scientists supervises the operations, and others 
are concerned with methods improvement. A quarantine line has 
been established along the Mississippi River for the inspection and 
treatment of animals to prevent screwworm establishment from in- 
fested hosts shipped from the Southwest. 

Results of the program will in time be published, but there is every 
indication that the objective, as on Curagao, will be achieved much 
more rapidly than we had dared to hope for. 

WILL THE STERILE-MALE METHOD PROVE USEFUL FOR CONTROLLING OR 
ERADICATING OTHER INSECTS? 

The successes against the screwworm on Curagao and in Florida 
have stimulated interest by biologists to explore the sterile-male 
method for controlling other insects. There is reason to believe that 
this new biological-control technique might prove practical for eradi- 
cating or controlling certain other major pests, A number of require- 



SCREWWORM ERADICATION — KNIPLING 417 

ments must be met, however. These have ah-eady been discussed in 
some detail (Knipling, 1955). The major requirements are (1) a 
method of causing sterility in the insects without seriously affecting 
survival and mating behavior, (2) practical methods of producing 
large numbers of sterile insects, (3) adequate dispersal of the in- 
sects released so that they will mix with the natural population, and 
(4) no danger of damage to crops, animals, or man by the insects 
released. Contrary to statements in the literature, single mating 
habits of the insect species is not necessarily an essential requirement. 

Research on the oriental, Mediterranean, and melon fruitfiies, 
which the Entomology Research Division has had under way for 
several years at its Honolulu laboratory, is now being intensified 
to explore the possibility of utilizing the sterile-male method to 
eradicate or to prevent the spread and establishment of these major 
pests of fruit and vegetables. The work is being done under the 
general direction of L. D. Christenson. The research at Honolulu, 
under the immediate supervision of L. F. Steiner, shows considerable 
promise. Although all the fruitfiies named have multiple mating 
habits, experiments in cages show that a ratio of about 10 sterile 
to 1 fertile male insect results in a high reduction in biotic potential 
of the fiies. Methods of rearing fruitfiies in the laboratory on a 
large scale have been developed. The seasonal population trends 
for fruitfiies show wide variations in most infested areas. The use 
of bait sprays or male lures has been found to reduce existing popu- 
lations drastically, if necessary. The insects are also of sufficient 
importance to warrant a substantial investment in eradication pro- 
grams. These factors all suggest that full exploration of the sterile- 
male method for fruitfiy eradication is justified. 

The Mexican fruitfiy problem in California and Texas should also 
lend itself to practical solution by the sterile-male approach, and 
research to explore the possibilities is under way by the Division's 
Mexico City fruitfiy laboratory under the immediate supervision of 
W. E. Stone. 

NEED FOR ADDITIONAL RESEARCH 

Basic information is urgently needed on other major insects be- 
fore we can estimate the possibilities of the sterile-male method as a 
practical control or eradication procedure. In some situations the 
technique might be useful for control or elimination of the pink boll- 
worm, boll weevil, European corn borer, southwestern corn borer, 
sugarcane borer, codling moth, plum curculio, oriental fruit moth, 
tobacco and tomato hornworms, yellow fever mosquito, and no doubt 
other insects in the United States or other countries. The method 
might be useful in the following types of situations: (1) As an out- 
right eradication measure in areas of low insect populations; (2) as 
a final eradication procedure foUowmg drastic reductions of well- 



418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

established infestations by the use of chemicals or other means; (3) 
as a means of eradicating incipient infestations; (4) as a means of 
preventing further spread of insects that have not yet reached the 
limits of the survival area; (5) as a means of preventing or retard- 
ing spread of pests from overwintering areas. 

For an appraisal of the possibilities of this new approach to insect 
control, investigations must be conducted along the following lines: 
(1) The effect of atomic irradiations on the reproductive capacity 
of the insects; (2) the effects of the irradiations on length of life and 
sexual behavior of the insect; (3) the mating habits of the insect; (4) 
population studies, with particular reference to actual numbers of 
insects in a given area during low points in the seasonal cycle or in 
areas of new establishment; (5) the biotic potential or normal rate 
of increase per generation under natural conditions; (6) the nutri- 
tional requirements of insects, with particular emphasis on the develop- 
ment of economical means for mass production; (7) the flight range 
and dispersal habits of insects; and (8) methods of separating sexes 
at low cost for species in which the released females may cause excessive 
damage. 

These investigations will by no means supply answers to all ques- 
tions that might arise in considering the possible use of sterile males 
for controlling specific pests. 

However, until we obtain such information we cannot forecast just 
how useful the method will be in dealing with insect problems in the 
United States and in other parts of the world. There is every reason 
to believe that this new approach to insect control is sufficiently 
promising to warrant exploration for many of our major insect pests. 

REFERENCES CITED 
Baumhover, a. H. ; Graham, A. J. ; Hopkins, D. E. ; Dudley, F. H. ; New, W. D. ; 
and BusHLAND, R. C. 

1955. Control of screwworms through release of sterilized flies. Journ. 
Econ. EntomoL, vol. 48, No. 4, pp. 462-466. 
BusHLAND, R. C, and Hopkins, D. E. 

1951. Experiments with screwworm flies sterilized by X-rays. Journ. Econ. 

EntomoL, vol. 44, No. 5, pp. 725-731. 
1953. Sterilization of screwworm flies with X-rays and gamma-rays. Journ. 
Econ. EntomoL, vol. 46, No. 4, pp. 648-656. 
Knipling, E. F. 

1955. Possibilities of insect control or eradication through the use of 
sexually sterile males. Journ. Econ. EntomoL, vol. 48, No. 4, 
pp. 459-462. 

LiNDQUIST, A. W. 

1955. Possibilities on the use of gamma radiation for control of eradica- 
tion of the screwworm. Journ. Econ. EntomoL, vol. 48, No. 4, 
pp. 467-469. 
Melvin, Roy, and Bushland, R. 0. 

1936. A method of rearing Cochliomyia americana G. and P. on artificial 
media. U. S. Bur. EntomoL and Plant Quar. ET-88. 



Narrative of the 1958 Smithsonian-Bredin 
Caribbean Expedition 



By Waldo L. Schmitt 

Research Associate, Smithsonian Institution 



[With 10 plates]^ 

This narrative is based on the fieldwork of the second Caribbean 
expedition sponsored by Mr. and Mrs. J. Bruce Bredin, of Wilmington, 
Del.^ The scientific staff assembled in Miami for an airflight rendez- 
vous in St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, whence the expedition departed on 
March 25, 1958, for a 6-week cruise among those islands, British and 
American, and the northern British Leewards. The expedition was 
brought to a close at English Harbor, Antigua, B.W.I., in time for a 
May 4 return to the States. 

The Smithsonian Institution, as before, was primarily interested in 
building up its study collections and enhancing its representation of 
the animal and plant life of the West Indian-Caribbean area ; and also 
adding to our knowledge of the zoogeographic distribution of this 
fauna and flora. In the course of the earlier expedition, 4,000 plant 
specimens, 18,000 insects, more than 27,000 marine invertebrate ani- 
mals, and some 1,700 specimens of fishes were collected for the U.S. 
National Museum. The over-all results of the 1958 expedition are yet 
to be assessed. 

EXPEDITION PERSONNEL 

For the 1958 cruise we were most fortunate in having again the 
Freelance^ the 86-foot schooner-yacht which served us so well on the 
1956 expedition, with Capt. Desmond Nicholson in command. Our 
professional staff this year included J. Bruce Bredin, sponsor of the 
expedition; John Finlay, conchologist of Varadero, Cuba; Dr. Carl 
N. Shuster, Jr., director of the University of Delaware's marine labora- 
tories at Newark and Lewes, Del. ; Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke, curator of 
insects in the U.S. National Museum, entomologist also on the previous 
Caribbean expedition ; and the author, research associate of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, of which Mr. Bredin is also an honorary fellow. 



1 An account of the first Caribbean expedition appeared In the Smithsonian Report for 
1956, pp. 443-460, 1957, under the title "A Narrative of the Smlthsoniau-Bredin Caribbean 
Expedition, 1956." 

419 



420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITU^nON, 1958 

Captain Nicholson, aside from being master of the Freelance, could 
also be comited a member of tlie scientific staff aboard. His nautical 
know-how, his experience in skin diving, and his consuming interest 
in the lives and kinds and whereabouts of the animal life of the sea, 
stemming from the biology studies of his schooldays, all combined to 
make him an invaluable addition to our staff. 

John Finlay knew not only most of the West Indian mollusks at 
sight, but also where to find and how to collect them. To the latter 
end he brought along three very successful mollusk traps of his own de- 
vising, and personally attended to baiting and setting them out one 
day and haiding them the next, after an overnight "soak." This 
was no mean task, as the traps are most successful in deeper waters, 30 
to 100 fathoms or more. Dredging, skin diving, and wielding his 
Weber scoop were other means he employed to add to our take of mol- 
lusks. This Weber modification of the original Needham scoop is a 
rectangular affair about a foot square and 6 mches deep, of galvanized 
mesh with strongly reinforced edges. Scarifying the sea bottom of 
sand and mud and weedy flats with one of the sharp sheet-metal cor- 
ners, he was able to dip up and sift the dislodged bottom material for 
whatever mollusks it contained. 

Dr. Shuster, an authority on horseshoe crabs (which, however, do 
not live in the area we covered this year), is also keenly interested in 
molluscan shellfish from an ecological point of view, their relationship 
to their environment particularly, as well as their rate of growth and 
manner of shell deposition. He, too, obtained an abundance of mate- 
rial and careful measurements of several species, the analysis of which 
will occupy him for months to come. 

Dr. Clarke is a microlepidopterist, an authority on little moths, 
those that are brethren, so to speak, of the tiny pests whose larvae 
destroy our unguarded woolens — clothes and blankets — or infest our 
cereals. Intimate knowledge of these insects — their kinds and 
whereabouts, their host plants or favorite foods, and their ways of 
life — is of extreme economic importance. The codling moth alone 
causes losses to our apple crops running more than $9 million a year, 
and the spruce-budworm, representing another microlepidopteran, 
has been known to destroy over $4 million worth of timber in a year. 
These are but 2 out of the 40,000 known species of Microlepidoptera. 
The great majority are not of much economic importance, but some 
10 or 15 percent of them are harmful species, injurious to plants and 
crops and other belongings of man. 

The liiicrolepidoptera are primarily nocturnal and so are best cap- 
tured at night by means of a light trap. The one employed by Dr. 
Clarke consists of a sizable 3-foot metal cone suspended from a tree 
or an improvised tripod. A brilliant light such as a gasoline lantern 
is hung partly within the wider upper end of this cone; a cyanide 



SMITHSONIAN-BREDIN EXPEDITION — SCHMITT 421 

bottle is screwed onto its lower narrow, funnellike end. The light- 
attracted insects getting or falling within the cone are quickly over- 
come by the cyanide fumes and so are held until the trap is emptied 
the next morning. As this was an after-dark operation, Dr. Clarke 
spent more than one night ashore, mosquito repellent close at hand, 
He made overnight stays on Barbuda, Anguilla, and Eedonda. 

EXPLORING ISLAND CAVES 

The first cave visited was Dark Cave on the island of Barbuda. 
From the town of Codrington, the seat of the local Barbudan govern- 
ment and the residence of the administrator of the island's affairs, 
who is also postmaster, it was a horseback ride over some of the rock- 
iest, shrubbiest, and thorniest terrain that any of us had ever traversed. 
In my experience only the Galapagos cactus-acacia thickets are denser 
and more difficult and the lava-rock-strewn ground rougher and more 
dangerous. Had there not been a previously broken trail on Barbuda, 
obviously not too well tended, I doubt if we could have made the round 
trip in a day. As it was, the 8-mile trip by road and trail took us a 
full 21/^ hours each way. 

It was well after noon before we reached the entrance to Dark Cave. 
The descent was 40 feet or more obliquely downward in a tortuous 
passage, overhung by huge boulders that did not always appear to 
be too firmly affixed to the "roof" over our heads, and under which 
we had to stoop at times. At the bottom we found a sizable cavern, 
or rather several broadly connected chambers, with alcoves on each 
side. Some of these were at levels above the ground floor, others at 
or below it. We found the first of a series of five fresh-water pools 
at the foot of our downward trek, stretching back into utter darkness. 
Where we stood, on the "shore" of the first pool, the water was little 
more than ankle deep, increasing to a foot or two farther out. For 
the last and largest of the series, our guides claimed a depth of 10 feet, 
which one of them promptly demonstrated by plunging in and going 
straight down in the middle, feet first with his right arm extended 
up over his head. The water closed a good 2 feet above his fingers. 

Not the least ray of light filtered in from our crooked entrance 
passage. For illumination we had two gasoline lanterns and a flash- 
light apiece. The guides brought along also a ball of heavy cord, 
which one of them payed out as we went down and in. Lanterns can 
be upset or accidentally dunked in dark and unknown waters, and 
flashlights and batteries have been Imown to fail at times. Without 
that reassuring "lifeline" for guiding us back among the boulders over 
which we had to climb, crowd between, or crawl under, it is doubtful 
if we could have retraced our steps safely had our lights given out. 
Measured from the loop tied in the line at our last stop, the foreshore 
of that farthest-in pool, we found we had come 400 feet. 



422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

The little minnow seine brought along was much too small for 
effective use in the deepest pool and useless in the smaller, rock-en- 
cumbered ones. Our search for fish was futile, but our 7- by 9-inch 
nylon dipnet, assiduously wielded by Captain Nicholson, captured 
two blind shrimps and some three dozen amphipods; from the cave 
floor we collected more than a hundred inch-long millipedes. 

The shrimps, when later critically examined by Dr. Fenner A. 
Chace, Jr., National Museum's curator of marine invertebrates, proved 
to be Typhlatya monae^ a species he had described from four female 
specimens taken in 1951 from a 30-foot well on Mona Island, between 
Hispaniola and Puerto Rico, and three others of the same sex dis- 
covered on that occasion in an old catchment basin on a high plateau 
on the island. Only two other Typhlatyas are known, both from 
America, T. garciae from a cave at Banes, Oriente Province, Cuba, 
and T. pearsei from a cave on Yucatan. 

Clarence R. Shoemaker, one of the world's foremost authorities on 
amphipods and a research associate of the Smithsonian Institution, 
quickly determined that the amphipods from Dark Cave represented 
two new species belonging to two quite different genera, both sub- 
terranean. Neither, scientifically or physiologically, had ever seen 
the light of day. As dwellers in dark, unilluminated places these 
amphipods, like our cave shrimp, have only inconspicuous pigment 
spots where the functional eyes in normal crustaceans of their kind 
are located. Thirty-five of the specimens belong to the genus Metani- 
phargus^ of which two other West Indian species are known, one from 
St. Kitts, the other from the Dutch island of Curasao, off the north 
coast of Venezuela. Barbuda now extends the range of the genus 
farther north. The unique 36th amphipod in our haul will be the 
6th species to be credited to the likewise subterranean genus Bogidiella. 
Of the five already known, three are recorded from Europe — at Stras- 
burg, in the Balkans, and in salt water in the Mediterranean area; 
and two from Brazil, one at Bahia in underground salt water, the 
other in fresh water in Amazonas. Zoogeographically, Bogidiella in 
this cavern is an even more unexpected find than the M etaniphargvs 
there, as the other Bogidiellas occur in localities very much farther 
away than either of the Metaniphargus species. Furthermore, until 
now Bogidiella has been known only from continental land masses 
almost half a world apart. The millipedes, of which Dr. Clarke got 
138 with just a few "lifts" of a small pair of curved-point forceps, 
seem to be a new species of the genus Epinannolene. 

How these subterranean animals get about from island cave to 
island cave, or from mainland to island, or vice versa, is an intriguing 
problem. Millipedes can run about and perchance come to the sur- 
face, where in daylight or dark they may lay their fertile eggs or 
place their young in soil that may become attached to the 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. -Schmitt 



Plate l 




1. At anchor off the harbor entrance, Sopors Hole, Tortola. The Freelance is the larger 

of the two yachts. 




2. John Finlay working over tidal flats at Anegada with Weber model of Needham scoop. 
The Freelance anchored offshore. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Schmitl 



Plate 2 




1. One of the larger trees of xerophilous flora of Tortola. The large epiphytes are bromeliads 
which provide the habitat for diverse and numerous fauna. 




2. Microbiological collecting, using Berlese funnel, undertaken at e\ery shore station. 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Schmitt 



PLATE 3 







Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Schmitt 



Plate 4 




r 






■^^ 



1. Close-up of bat caves, while anchored under Flat Top Rock Point, Crocus Bay, Anguilla. 








2. Light trap for Alicrolepidoptera on hill above village of Road, xAnguilla. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Schmitt 



Plate 5 




1. John Finlay about to lower his rattan mollusk trap in 126 fatiiunis oil ChailcsLon Nevis. 
In this particular haul he took a unique specimen of Bursa. 




2. Rest period in an opening In the scrubby thicket on a reconnaissance of the trail to 

Dark Cave, 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Schmitt 



Plate 6 




^f/*t' ■ ^if'S' 




u 



.S Q 



-T3 -^ 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Schmitt 



PLATE 7 




1. A bit of Egypt in the West Indies. Corral and watering place for stock near Codrington, 

Barbuda. 




2. I'hc Com»,uhicu, Aii,ii:ua,i >. A pcrimcntal tih 



,:,;o L:.,-;i,.;i iiuibur. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Schmitt 



PLATE 8 




k yi«r/. \ 





Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Schmitt 



Plate 9 




1. Redonda. The island of Montserrat looms faintly in tlie distance. 




2. The very tiptop of Redonda. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Schmitt 



Plate 10 




1. Booby with nestling. 








2. The upper level, Redonda. Former "residence" of phosphate-mining crew at left; 
rain-water cistern at extreme right. 



SMITHSONIAN-BREDIN EXPEDITION — SCHMITT 423 

feet of birds and so be carried far and wide, or else may be blown 
for considerable distances by strong winds or hurricanes. Could 
the bats possibly play a part in the transport of cave animals? It 
does not seem very likely in the case of the animals before us, but 
studies of flights and migration of banded specimens of bats in New 
England have brought to light the fact that some individuals have 
"traveled" as much as 125 to 156 miles from the place where they 
were banded. But bats are known for their clean feet and claws. 

When not in alarmed flight, the squeaking host of bats overhead 
festooned the irregularities of the higher reaches of the cavern, and 
had it not been for Dr. Clarke's handiness with his insect net, we 
might not have captured a single specimen, traveling as we were on 
this occasion without firearms of any description. A few deft swipes 
and some scratching with his long-handled net in accessible niches 
overhead obtained for us at least six of them. 

The bats from Dark Cave, Brachyphylla cavemarum by name. Dr. 
Charles O. Handley, Jr., National Museum's associate curator of mam- 
mals, tells me are an omnivorous species, eating fruit and insects, and 
as far as known confined to the West Indian islands. In the 
Museum's collection we have specimens from six of them : Dominica, 
Puerto Eico, St. Croix, Barbuda, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent. 

On the way home from Dark Cave our guides made a slight detour 
so that we might take in Bryant Cave. This we found to be an 
exceedingly wet and slimy sink under a deeply undercut cliff. The 
thorouglily overshadowed pool at its foot appeared devoid of animal 
life except for a few aquatic insects and numerous tiny black snails 
leaving little trails behind them as they crawled over the bottom, 
which appeared to be largely a muddy, yellowish-greenish bac- 
terial (?) and algal slime. The Museum's associate curator of 
mollusks. Dr. J. P. E. Morrison, says they are a new species of the 
genus Littoridinops^ family Hydrobiidae. Although there was con- 
siderable diffused light, no direct sunlight seems ever to reach this 
sinldiole's dank depths. 

Another cave visited the next day was Darby Cave, which turned 
out to be another great sinkhole. Originally it must have been an 
exceedingly large cavern, the roof of which had collapsed. The 
result was an impressive amphitheater, 70 feet in depth and 400 feet 
across. Its expanse was crowded with the lush green tops of tall 
trees and magnificent palms, a veritable rain- forest in this otherwise 
desiccated and arid-looking land. In its dryness at the time of our 
visit, and in its wealth of cacti and thorny acacias and other xero- 
phytic plants, Barbuda again reminded me of the dry season in the 
Galapagos. But Barbuda is, underneath it all, well watered. One 
can dig a well almost anywhere and strike water. The several caves 



424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

and sinks are ample evidence of the water resources underlying the 
whole of this island. 

On one side of our amphitheater was a great rock wall rising 70 
feet above our heads. Undercut fully 30 feet, there was left just a 
perilously thin roof, projecting to form what might be described as 
the top of the proscenium arch of the amphitheater's stage. Not 
until we were down inside did we appreciate our guides' concern 
when they pulled us back from the upper rim of this cliff upon which 
wo had dismounted to peer over and to photograph the striking 
jungle down below. 

Opposing the cliffside "stage" were tiers of "seats" of a rubble of 
broken slabs of rock that once formed the roof of the former cavern. 
Down this tumbled slope we descended as from a high-up "peanut 
gallery" to the "pit" below. Because of that 30-foot overhang, the 
"stage" was so shaded that it was wholly devoid of trees. Here we 
rested and ate our lunch, which was enjoyed with some qualms, for 
we could not avoid remarking upon the large blocks of rock that at 
one time or another had dropped from above. Between us and the 
"balcony seats" on the far side of the amphitheater, obscuring them 
from sight, was our dense rain-forest, mostly tall palms stretching 
upward toward the light. The forest floor was a thick mulch of dead 
and rotting palm fronds. Before us, from over the cliff's rim, 
descended hawser-thick roots of mighty lianas, reaching down for 
moisture and nurture in tlie humus-rich soil underfoot. In a few 
places over the rim came the intermittent drip-drip of water, though 
we saw not the slightest trace of it when we were on top. These little 
bits of moisture were building up small stalagmites, none larger than 
a fist. We later found a startlingly large stalagmite 8 feet high and 
not less than 2 feet in diameter. This greenish-white, almost trans- 
lucent mass of limestone was so smooth, so solid and well formed, 
that I have yet to see its counterpart in any of the many caves I have 
explored along our eastern seaboard. In the lightly misted patches 
formed about the stalagmites. Dr. Clarke, in his search for insects, 
discovered tiny frogs hiding among adjacent broken stone and gravel. 

We also looked into other and more superficial caves, at sea level 
and above, in the cliffs under Flat Top Kock Point near Crocus Bay, 
Anguilla. These are well known locally as popular bat roosts. At 
night the bats skimmed the surface of the water. While we were 
hand-lining over the side and dip-netting for plankton under an 
electric light suspended at the surface of the water, one, indeed, took 
hold of the captain's line. Before he could jerk the hook upward to 
impale it, the bat took off. It was to us a new experience. The cap- 
tain, however, recalled that he had, under similar circumstances, 
snagged a bat off Dominica one night the year before. He was sure it 
was fishing at the surface. Try as we might, we never got another 



SMITHSONIAN-BREDIN EXPEDITION — SCHMITT 425 

strike at Anguilla that night or the next. Fish-eating bats, I found on 
my return to Washington, were to our mammalogists an old story, of 
which the first published record goes back as far as 1860.^ 

The last of the caves visited in the course of this year's investigations 
was the very appropriately named Bat Cave, on Antigua. This was 
a favored resort of the species that we had captured earlier in Dark 
Cave on Barbuda. Of its occurrence in Antigua our mammalogists 
had long been aware, as our very first specimen of it from this island 
had been cataloged m 1864. 

I never again expect to see as many bats in one place as I did that 
May 1 in Antigua, imless it should be in the vastly larger Carlsbad 
Cavern in New Mexico. Although Bat Cave is no small affair, it 
had been considerably larger not long before our visit. A rock- 
fall had blocked off an extensive passage, which as local legend has 
it, went well down under the sea all the way to Martinique. If 
such connections between these island caves can be conceived, how 
easily is the distribution of their inhabitants to be explained. As 
improbable as the story is, I would nevertheless like to investigate any 
caves on Martinique. 

COLLECTING INVERTEBRATES 

Before our cave explorations on Barbuda, we cruised for some days 
among the British Virgin Islands, amplifying our 1956 collections 
from Tortola (Road Town, March 26) and Virgin Gorda (March 28, 
29 ; April 6, 7) . Of the Tortola anchorages, Sopers Hole (March 31 ; 
April 1, 5, and 6) was scientifically the most rewarding in fish and 
invertebrates taken by skin diving, dredging, and shore collecting. 
Insects were collected from the steep hills encircling this bay by Dr. 
Clarke, who covered them quite thoroughly with net, by ground and 
debris searching by day, and by light trapping at night. 

Similar activities occupied our time at Guano Island (March 27), 
Peter Island (March 29) , Jost Van Dyke (April 1, 2) , Norman Island 
(April 6), Anegada (xipril 9), Anguilla and Sandy Island nearby 



' That and subsequent observations were reviewed in 1945 (Journ. Mammalogy, vol. 26, 
No. 1, pp. 1-15, 1945) by the late Dr. E. W. Gudger. He acquainted us with the fact 
that the species hereabouts, Noctilio leporinum, is widely distributed through the New 
World Tropics, ranging from Ecuador and Panama and Surinam through the West Indies. 
The Museum has specimens of it from Trinidad, Barbados, Grenada, St. Lucia, St. Croix, 
Mona Island, and Puerto Rico. 

But no one was certain just how the bats captured their prey until Dr. Prentice Bloedel, 
then a member of the University of California's graduate school, looked into the matter 
and photographically recorded their mode of catching fish (Journ. Mammalogy, vol. 36, 
No. 8, pp. 390-399, 1955). He watched, and took still flashes and moving pictures of 
captured individuals on a screened porch, fishing in a shallow pan in which he had small 
fish swimming. With their sharply clawed feet the bats gaffed fi.'^h as they swooped 
down to the surface of the water, passing the captured fish up to the mouth. That 
night off Anguilla, with our gangway light hung close to the water, young and larval 
fish -s^ere swarming in countless numbers. A few dips with a net filled a quart Jar. 
Undoubtedly it was this rich plankton "soup" that brought the bats to the side of the 
ship, more than the hand line the captain put over the side in hopes of snaring one. 



426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

(April 13, 14, and 15), and off Bird and Green Islands in Nonsuch Bay 
on the way to Barbuda (April 23, 24). While at Barbuda, the better 
part of 2 days (between April 27 and 29) was given over to land and 
littoral collecting about Spanish Point on the boisterous, spray- 
drenched, windward shore of that island. 

Mr, Bredin, who had planned on participating in our several activi- 
ties for a full 3 weeks, had to leave after a week. John Finlay, 
too, left shortly after, but not until he had aroused in Dr. Shuster the 
desire to make a critical statistical study of a small or dwarf form of 
the fighting conch, Stromhus pugilis, that he had dredged up in con- 
siderable numbers in the channel between Tortola and Jost Van Dyke. 

Dr. Shuster's enthusiasm for detailed analyses of racial differences 
within mollusk species was carried over to the genus Vasum, following 
John Finlay's visit to a St. Johns curio shop, where he met Mrs. Leslie 
Allen, of Hartford, Conn., residing at the Mill Reef Club, who told 
John of the occurrence of Vasum nuttingi (strictly speaking, Vasum 
globulum nuttingi) in Carlisle Bay. John tells me that without her 
explicit directions he would not have come upon this species during his 
brief stay in Antigua. Thus it was that he obtained the first specimens 
of the species he had ever seen, with the aid of local children who 
volunteered their services. Though we were not aware of it at the 
time, this species had previously been taken in English Harbor and 
along the rocky shores of Falmouth Bay, from which two areas came 
the original material described by the late John B. Henderson, noted 
collector and one-time Regent of the Smithsonian Institution. He 
found them while taking part in the Barbados- Antigua Expedition of 
the University of Iowa, in 1918. 

This interest in shells and in Vasimi in particular led to our be- 
coming acquainted with Dr. William T. Bode, of West Sacramento, 
Calif., who, with his wife, two daughters in their teens, and a younger 
son, was spending the current scholastic year as a Fulbright fellow 
conducting a manual-arts workshop for a selected group of Antiguan 
school teachers. In their spare time, the Bodes became greatly inter- 
ested in the local molluscan fauna, amassing a very comprehensive 
collection and a wealth of firsthand information about the environ- 
ments favored by the various species. Just a few days before our 
departure they took Dr. Shuster to some of their favorite collecting 
grounds in others of the many bays indenting the shores of Antigua, 
where they got considerable numbers of at least two different forms 
of Vasum globulum nuttingi. Dr. Shuster himself quite unexpectedly 
found other varieties in even greater quantity about Spanish Point, 
Barbuda, on the surf-beaten windward side of the island on the 
occasion of our visit there on April 29. Noting the appreciable differ- 
ences exhibited by this species of Yaswm from bay to bay around An- 
tigua and from Barbuda, Dr. Bode and Dr. Shuster decided to coUab- 



SMITHSONIAN-BREDIN EXPEDITION — SCHMITT 427 

orate on an ecologic-systematic study of the Vasums in their respective 
West Indian collections. 

Mr, Finlay's special mollusk traps were also very successful. On 
one occasion in 126 fathoms off Charlestown, Nevis, and on another 
in 120 fathoms off Anguilla, they brought up an appreciable number 
of perfect specimens of Murex cailleti kugJeri. In that Nevis haul 
he also got another interesting shell, Bursa tenuisculpta, of finer 
sculpture and of more elongated form than usual. The Murex is 
represented in the National Museum's collections from southeast 
Florida, off Bahia Honda, Cuba, Yucatan, and north of the Virgin 
Islands, in depths ranging from 50 to 130 fathoms or more. The 
Finlay specimens extend the range of the species considerably farther 
south and east than heretofore known. This Murex has also been 
taken both north and south of Kedonda. It has been recorded, almost 
exclusively by dredging operations, from Sand Key, Fla., in 25 
fathoms; Cuba, 180 fathoms; Jamaica; Santo Domingo; St. Croix, 
115 and 248 fathoms ; Saint Maarten ; and Guadeloupe. 

FISHING WITH THE LONG-LINE 

For the first time on any Smithsonian expedition, the so-called long- 
line was used for taking specimens at sea. This type of fishing gear 
was developed by the Japanese for their oceanic fisheries, principally 
tuna and albacore. Their success with it led our Fish and Wildlife 
Service to adopt and adapt it for use by American fishermen. We re- 
quested from the Fish and Wildlife Service the loan of a long-line 
for this Bredin expedition, to see what we might catch with it. The 
Service helpfully complied, being interested in what this gear might 
catch in the area in which we would be operating. The long-line 
is an informative tool of the first order in prospecting for com- 
mercially important fish. 

They advised us to take but half a long-line, 5 tubs ("baskets," or 
sections ) of line, instead of the standard 10. We were new to the game, 
and our chartered yacht was not specially fitted for this kind of 
fishing, though our captain and crew soon familiarized themselves 
with handling it over the side. Each section is 138 fathoms long, 
so that five tubs alone, end to end, will stretch out more than three- 
fourths of a mile. Buoy lines are usually adjusted so that the baited 
Japanese tuna-type hooks hang between 10 and 20 fathoms below the 
surface, the recommended fishing depth. These hooks, 10 to a tub 
or section, are each attached to a 4-f athom branch line with a 1-f athom 
wire leader. A buoy is at the end of each section, and at the beginning 
and end of the line is attached a signal flag on a bamboo pole, suitably 
buoyed with cork floats and weighted to stand upright. These 
markers are essential, as the long-lines are best put over at or just be- 
fore dawn and allowed to soak for several hours. If a number of 



428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION^ 1958 

long-lines are out, or other work is undertaken in the interval, the 
signals facilitate locating expensive gear again, to say nothing of the 
catch. 

We completed four trials with that long-line, not counting a dry run 
with a couple of sections, to acquaint our crew with the gear. Two of 
the four actual trials Avere made from the Freelance off Anegada, April 
9, and southwest of Eedonda, April 18 — both unjDroductive except for 
an 8-foot white-tipped shark, Carcharhinus longimanus, on the first 
trial off Anegada. Specimenwise, his stomach was empty. His sharp- 
toothed jaws, dissected out for clinching our field identification, now 
repose in the National collections. We were unable to get a picture 
of the shark because in the excitement of landing him we could not 
see the fish for the men, and a dead, disemboweled shark on deck in a 
tangle of ropes is not a photogenic subject. 

Wlien we got to St. Johns, Antigua, and met Ralph Camacho, fishery 
officer to the Antiguan Department of Agriculture, the possibilities of 
long-line fishing appealed so to him that he kindly offered to take us 
out for further trials on his 4:l-foot experimental fishing vessel, the 
Commando^ a most practical, well-powered craft. With his more ex- 
pert fishermen and the bait that he was able to obtain, our gear yielded 
somewhat more promising results. On the first of the two runs he 
made, the one in the vicinity of French Bank, off the north end of 
Martinique, we drew another blank. On the second, however, on April 
29, well to the eastward of Barbuda, we had our best luck. Here the 
bottom dropped off suddenly over a "precipice," from 50 to more than 
200 and as suddenly again to 1,000 fathoms. Long-lines seem to yield 
the best results when fishing is done in waters of 500 fathoms and more, 
and so it was with us this day. The Commando got two 8-foot dusky 
sharks, Carcharhinus ohscurus^ a 10%-foot blue marlin, Makaira 
nigricans ampla^ and five 4-foot dolphins, Coryphaena hippur-us. 
Attracted perhaps by the baited long-line as it was being taken in, these 
swift blue-and-gold beauties were schooling about the last flag buoy. 
Caught on baited hand-lines quickly thrown over to tempt them, they 
were pulled aboard after many spectacular leaps. 

Between making this set in the early morning and hauling it in in 
the early afternoon, the Commando resorted to a fishing ground 
farther in to fill in the time hand-lining. It was, indeed, a fortunate 
day all around — corvalos, amberjacks, and black-spotted and Carib- 
bean snappers, these last in several lots of four and five, and in one 
instance six, on a single hand line. The blue marlin, though, was the 
prize catch. Since our trip with him, Ralph Camacho landed an even 
larger one — a 12-footer which weighed 436 pounds dressed, and which 
he is confident would have tipped the scales at at least 500 pounds in 
the round. It took 53 minutes to boat that fellow. But the grand- 



SMITHSONIAN-BREDIN EXPEDITION — SCHMITT 429 

daddy of all blue marlins must be the one caught off Bimini, June 19, 
1949, by Aksel Wichfield, on a 130-pound line. It weighed 742 pounds. 

REDONDA REVISITED 

Redonda is an isolated, precipitous, and forbidding rock on which 
Dr. Clarke and I had landed during the Smithsonian-Bredin Carib- 
bean Expedition of 1956. We were ashore but a few hours because 
the captain did not care to hazard anchoring in those deep and rocky 
waters, where winds and currents are unpredictable. We landed pri- 
marily to get samples of the phosphate deposit formerly mined here 
and to gather what littoral invertebrates I could in the time available, 
while Dr. Clarke climbed a steep gully leading to the top, to recon- 
noiter the rock's insect life. This altogether too brief visit whetted our 
desire for another opportunity. This Captain Nicholson vouchsafed 
this year, but regrettably I could not personally avail myself of the 
offer because of the long-line trial that had to be made. We put Dr. 
Clarke ashore with his light trap, insect collecting gear, and a bite to 
eat. We were not to pick him up until the next afternoon, although 
we could anchor under the lee of the rock for as long as possible after 
the day's fishing. 

As Dr. Clarke recounts his visit : 

Lauding on Redonda is uncertain, as I learned year before last. This year 
it was smoother than I had expected. The climb up went better, too, as last 
time I had unwittingly essayed the more difficult of the two accessible ravines — 
gullies, if you prefer. By getting ashore in the afternoon, I had ample time for 
investigating the top of this 1,000-foot-high pinnacle rock, the birds, the bugs, 
and the buildings before dark. There were also lots of little geckos about. The 
boobies all had nestlings, but most noteworthy among the feathered residents 
was the burrowing owl, Speotyto cunicularia aniaura. Identified by Dr. Alex- 
ander Wetmore from my description of its appearance and plaintive call, this is 
a new record for the species. The cistern on top for collecting water in the 
phosphate-mining days is still in good condition, and still contains what can be 
regarded as potable water, though I was not moved to drink any of it. Of the 
former residence or dormitory, only walls and ceiling of the first floor remain. 
I spent the night in this shelter, except for frequent visits to my traps and my 
several bouts with rats. Geckos, which abounded on the walls of my shelter, 
were easily caught by picking them oQ: the walls with the aid of a flashlight. 
There wei-e also many large hermit crabs, Coenohita, about. They were largest 
of their kind I had ever seen — perhaps a giant race? Naturally I was chided 
the next day for not bringing a few down with me, even though this crab is 
about the most widely distributed crustacean in all the West Indies. My 
primary objective was to set my light trap on this isolated rock. This I success- 
fully achieved by hanging the light from the island's only tree, an introduction 
on the island. The catch was meager, but I got a long series of the beetle genus 
Hymenorus, of the family Alleculidae, apparently attracted to the area by the 
foul-smelling, nitrogenous excrement of the sea birds. There is no previous 
record for this family for the West Indies. There were few insects attracted 
to the light, but in addition to the beetles about 20 species of Microlepidoptera 
have been sorted from that overnight catch. 



430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

The inclined plateau forming most of the top of the island is covered by 
coarse grasses, sedges, a slender narrow-leafed agave, several cacti in great 
abundance, lantana, and several other scrubby shrubs. The whole island pre- 
sents an unfavorable aspect, and one must be constantly alert lest he fall in brush- 
covered holes or fall with a rock slide. On the upper reaches of the island the 
sea birds share their precarious retreat with goats and a large, swift, black 
lizard. The latter are curious reptiles. While dismembering a dead agave, in 
search of beetles or cockroaches, my scratching attracted 20 or 30 of these 
black fellows, whose curiosity brought them within easy range — but I had no 
shotgun. Two very recent rockfalls attest to the insecurity of the Redonda 
sanctuary, rock falls no doubt caused by the several slight earthquakes such as 
we experienced during our recent visit. 

Best of all, I got to the very top of Redonda, something I wanted to do ever 
since I set foot ashore here 2 years ago, and I sampled the night crawlers and 
fliers which I did not have the opportunity to do before, and may never have 
again. 

Coming down the gully up which I had climbed was likewise easier than in 
1956. I did not have to ride a rock avalanche down this time, but getting ofC 
was a wetter performance. After putting my gear safely aboard the dinghy in 
which Danny and Joe came to get me, in the rise and fall of the surf on the 
boulder-heaped shore, I stepped unwittingly into the sea instead of the boat, 
which did not rise in time to meet me, as I thought it would. Either my timing 
or that of the unaccommodating 5-foot-high surf was poor, but anyway the dip 
was as refreshing as a shower after a hot and dirty day and a not too 
comfortable night ashore. 

IN CONCLUSION 

This year's trip to the Virgin Islands covered less ground — and less 
water — than the previous Smithsonian-Bredin expedition to the Carib- 
bean — 500 miles as compared with 1,000, and 18 islands as compared 
with 28. This time, however, we got underground, inside the islands, 
a thing we had never done before in this area, and got to the very top 
of Redonda. The collecting was good in most places, excellent in 
some, but this narrative is following too soon upon our return for an 
evaluation of the size and value of our collections. As a single in- 
stance, however, there may be mentioned the nearly 250 cockroaches 
that Dr. Clarke hewed from a large dead agave's imbricated leaves on 
the slopes of Peter Island above Little Bay. These roaches are not 
our usual North American household kind, but one of the wild, out- 
door, tropic species, Hemibldbera hrunneri, of which Dr. Ashley Gur- 
ney, of the United States Department of Agriculture, tells me the 
Museum had but four specimens, while not more than a dozen are 
known in museums generally. Dr. Gurney is devoting serious study 
to the distribution of the cockroaches through the West Indies and was 
very pleased with the material the expedition brought back from 13 
different localities, totaling more than 2,000 specimens. 

Again the thanks of the Smithsonian Institution go to Mr. and 
Mrs. Bredin for another memorable, noteworthy, and scientifically 
profitable expedition. 



Tools Makyth Man' 



By Kenneth Oakley 

British Museum (Natural History) 



Benjamin Franklin appears to have been the first to call man tlie 
"toolmaking animal," ^ while Thomas Carlyle in Sartor Kesartus 
(1833) declared: "Without tools he is nothing." In pre-Darwinian 
days the definition of man was no more than a philosophical exercise. 
That man might have evolved from lower animals was in the minds 
of very few people in those days. Certainly the question of how to 
draw a boundary between prehuman and hmnan had not yet become a 
practical issue. Even the conception that man had a long unrecorded 
past had barely taken root a hundred years ago, although the seeds of 
the idea had been sown by a few men far ahead of their time, such as 
Isaac de la Peyrere, who published a book in Paris in 1655 on Primi 
Homines ante Adamum^ and John Frere whose discovery of flint tools 
in brick eartlis at Hoxne in Suffolk led him to infer in 1797 that they 
had been "used by a people who had not the use of metals," and "be- 
longed to a very ancient period indeed, even before that of the present 
world." _ ^ ^ ^.:^fei^ 

The idea that man had an extensive prehistoric past began to grow 
during the second quarter of the last century, largely as a result of stone 
tools being recognized in deposits containing the remains of extinct 
animals. Flint implements associated with bones of Diluvial (we 
should now say Glacial) animals were reported from Belgium caves 
in 1832, and in 1840 from below a thick layer of stalagmite in Kent's 
Cavern, Torquay. At this time orthodox scientists, following the 
French naturalist Cuvier, were incredulous of such discoveries. 
When, in 1846, a French customs ofiicial, Boucher de Perthes, repeated 
his claim (first made in 1838) that he had discovered at Abbeville in 
the ancient gravels of the river Somme, flints worked by man and 
associated with remains of Antediluvian animals, the majority of 
archeologists and geologists were frankly scornful. In 1854 one of 
his critics, a physician named Kigollot, was converted to the unortho- 



^ Reprinted by permission from Antiquity, vol. 31, 1957. 
' Quoted in Boswell's Life of Johnson, April 7, 1778. 

431 

492520—59 29 



432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

dox view when he himself found similar chipped flints (hand axes) in 
fossil-bearmg river gravel at St. Acheul, near Amiens. In November 
1858, the English paleontologist Hugh Falconer visited Abbeville, and 
was favorably impressed by the evidence. In the following April, at 
Falconer's suggestion, the geologist Joseph Prestwich went to Abbe- 
ville and St. Acheul. After examining the collections and visiting 
the pits in company with the English archeologist Jolm Evans, he 
returned to London and on May 26, 1859, presented a paper to the 
Royal Society amiouncing his acceptance of the claims made by 
Boucher de Perthes and Rigollot. Tliis pronouncement, coming from 
a geologist of such high repute, had a great efl'ect on scientific opinion 
throughout the world. The year 1859 was, as we now see, one of the 
turning points in human thought ; the immense antiquity of man was 
established almost simultaneously with the publication in book form of 
Darwin's theory of evolution, "On the Origin of Species by Means of 
Natural Selection." 

Fossilized skeletal remains of man were found during the second 
half of the last century at a number of localities : Neanderthal (1856), 
Cro-Magnon (1868), Spy (1886), and Trinil in Java (1891). It was 
gradually realized that these provided concrete evidence that man had 
been subject to evolutionary change as deduced by Darwin in his 
"Descent of Man" ( 1871 ) . However, none of these discoveries pushed 
back the antiquity of man, for the unquestionable flint tools from the 
Abbeville gravels had already indicated his existence in Europe before 
the arrival of the typically glacial fauna. As Boucher de Perthes 
expressed it (after translation) : "In spite of their imperfection, these 
rude stones prove the existence of man as surely as a whole Louvre 
would have done." 

How great is the antiquity of man? If he is defined as the tool- 
making primate, this problem resolves itself into the question of the 
geological age of the oldest known artifacts. Although the flint hand 
axes (palaeoUths) dating from the earlier part of the Pleistocene 
period are crudely flaked, they are nevertheless standardized tools, and 
tliis has generally been regarded as indicating that a long tradition of 
slowly acquired skill lay behind them. This was the idea sustaining 
the search for traces of the handiwork of Tertiary man, in other words 
the hunt for eoliths. 

I must here digress for a moment to recall that the Tertiary era, 
beginning 75 million years ago and distinguished by the rise of mam- 
mals, is divided into the Eocene, Oligocene, Miocene, and Pliocene 
periods. The Pleistocene period or Ice Age, with its postglacial ap- 
pendage of Holocene or Recent time, constitutes the Quaternary era. 
Originally the Pleistocene was defined as coincident with the Quater- 
nary Ice Age, but the International Geological Congress in 1948 
recommended its redefinition to include the Villafranchian stage (for- 



TOOLS MAKYTH MAN — OAKLEY 433 

merly in part Upper Pliocene) distingiiislied by the spread of ele- 
phants of the genus Elephas^ oxen (Bos), and one-toed horses 
(Equus). Owing to these changes in nomenclature, deposits which 
were formerly "Early" Pleistocene are now counted as Middle Pleisto- 
cene (e.g., the Abbeville gravels and the Trinil beds) ; while other 
deposits formerly counted as Pliocene, i.e.. Tertiary, for example the 
Bed Crag of East Anglia, are now regarded as Lower Pleistocene by 
the majority of geologists. The "glacial Pleistocene" is estimated to 
have been about half a million years in duration, but the addition of 
the Villafranchian stage has nearly doubled the length of the period. 

The problem of eoliths, supposed artifacts of Tertiary man, was first 
raised by the discoveries of Abbe Louis Bourgeois, who found in 1867 
a great quantity of chipped flints, in the forms of alleged scrapers, 
knives, and borers, in a fresh-water deposit of Lower Miocene ^ age 
near Thenay (Loir-et-Cher). From time to time similar chipped 
flints were reported in other Tertiary formations: in Lower Eocene 
strata at Clermont (Oise), in Upper Oligocene gravels at Boncelles, 
Belgium, in "Upper Miocene" (now Lower Pliocene) deposits at Puy 
Courny, Cantal, in the so-called Pliocene plateau gravels on the North 
Downs in Kent, and within and below the Ked Crag of East Anglia. 

With the growth of knowledge on the evolution of the primates, 
based on a study of actual fossil remains, it has become clear in the 
present century that our forerunners had only the size range of bush 
babies throughout Eocene times. Man-sized apes did not emerge before 
the Miocene period, while the earliest manlike remains date from early 
Pleistocene times. Thus, pre-Miocene eoliths at any rate may now be 
dismissed as geological curiosities, with no bearing on the origins of 
tool making. The unreliability of the criteria used by the earlier 
archeologists who recognized "flints shaped by human agency" in the 
Tertiary formations is evident from the fact that Eocene eoliths are as 
convincingly artificial in appearance as many of those from later 
formations! ;■?' 

In some circumstances flint is very readily fractured, and the natural 
agencies which cause it to be chipped into shapes reminiscent of artifice 
are legion. The eoliths found in Tertiary river gravels are strikingly 
similar to flints broken by violent agitation in the water of chalk mills. 
This is understandable. An accumulation of flints of eolithic form was 
found in a river gravel in a valley in Wiirtemberg where the material 
carried by the main stream had evidently been drawn into whirlpools 
caused by the inflow of tributaries. Another agency which results in 
the production of pseudoartif acts is the pressure combined with move- 
ment occurring when flint-bearing strata founder through the solution 
of underlying chalk or other calcareous formation. This was the 
agency chiefly responsible for the Clermont eoliths. The Kent eoliths 



•Aqnitanian: classified by some authors as Upper Oligocene. 



434 AJSTNTTAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

were mainly produced by the powerful friction of one stone against 
another which occurs in soil creep, particularly under subglacial 
conditions. 

"Wliile it is reasonable enough to consider the possibility of tool- 
using primates having existed during Pliocene times, and even during 
the Miocene period, there are insuperable difficulties in the way of 
recognizing the particular pieces of stone or bone that may have 
been picked up and used. The earliest attempts at making tools 
from pieces of stone must have been all but indistinguishable from 
the accidents of nature (and we have already seen how "human" 
these can appear). Naturally fractured stones probably served as 
the first tools. Some Australian aborigines at the present day 
fashion wooden utensils with naturally shaped pieces of stone selected 
by virtue of their sharp cutting edges. As one French prehistorian 
expressed the problem of eoliths: "Man made one, God made ten 
thousand — God help the Man who tries to see the one in the ten 
thousand." 

During the present century large numbers of flaked flints, including 
some strongly suggestive of intelligent design, have been found in 
the Stone Bed underlying the Norwich and Weybourne Crags in Nor- 
folk and in the Bone Bed below the Red Crag in Suffolk. These 
flints show a number of features not found in the general run of Ter- 
tiary eoliths; and largely, I believe, because they date from the very 
interval of time when, according to many lines of evidence, tool making 
probably began, they have been widely accepted as human artifacts 
despite the relentless opposition of scientists who have specialized in 
the study of flint fractures, such as Hazzledine Warren and the late 
Prof. A. S. Barnes. If one confines attention to the beautiful rostro- 
carinates, corelike forms, scraperlike flakes, and so on, laid out for ex- 
hibition in the Norwich Castle Museum and the Ipswich Museum, it is 
difficult to disbelieve in their human origin. Yet, collecting for oneself 
in the Sub-Crag Stone Bed, for example, one is bewildered by the high 
percentage of the component flints that have been bruised and chipped, 
the majority obviously in a random fashion. Now and again the 
flakes have been removed first from one side and then from another 
side in a way suggestive of design. By keeping only the best of the 
latter kind one can build a collection that is convincingly like a 
crude human industry; yet seen as part of a vast series of flakings, 
with gradation from obviously natural to seemingly artificial, the Sub- 
Crag "implements" are less convincing than when studied in isolation. 
Nevertheless, the late Reid Moir and others made a good case for 
accepting some of the assemblages of flakings in and below the Crag 
as the work of "pre-Palaeolithic Man," until belief in them was 
shaken by Barnes's demonstration that on statistical analysis the Crag 



TOOLS MAKYTH MAN — OAKLEY 



435 



flaking was of the high-angled type characteristic of tlie work of 
nature. 

Out of 1,800 measurements of platform-scar angles in 18 different 
human industries, Barnes found less than 18 percent over 90° ; but in 
flaked flints from Eocene deposits over 54 percent of the flake scars 
proved to have angles over 90°, while among flaked flints from the 
Crag formations over 62 percent of the flake scars are more than 90°. 
Professor Barnes concluded: "The high proportion of high-angle 
scars in the Tertiary flints contrasts sharply with the paucity of high 
angles in the human industries, and suggests that the Tertiary flaking 



60 



-^ 












v^^'' 


^ 




Wm 


m 


w 


p 


m 




m 


■ 


i 






I Z 3 ^ s « r & 

A. i:olvths 






zo 









































m 




^ 


m 


m 


m 


y'm 


7F77, 


ff///} 


<miz!i 













' 2 3 -f S a T S 9 /O // fi fZ Mf /S /6 

CMvi^^noiTL Work 

Fig. 1. — Percentages of obtuse platform-scar angles found in: A, eoliths in flint, including 
Sub-Crag (/ and J); B, Naturally fractured stones, including flints crushed under cart 
wheels (i) or broken in foundering of deposits (^), and chipped hard rocks in moraines (7); 
C, human flint industries, mainly early, including Abbevillian (.?), Acheulian {5-8, 12), 
Tayacian (9, 10), and Mousterian (/i). (After A. S. Barnes, by courtesy of the editor 
of American Anthropologist.) 

was due to soil movements under pressure arising from solifluxion, 
foundering, or ice action" (Barnes, 1943) . 

Warren reached a similar conclusion after prolonged study of the 
character of the Crag flaking (1948) and, having reviewed the geo- 
logical evidence, concluded that the Stone Bed and Bone Bed did not 
accumulate as beach deposits, but on a submarine floor, "which cannot 
reasonably be supposed to have been available for human habitation." 
As about 50 percent of stones in some parts of the Stone Bed are flaked, 
and as the deposit occupies several hundred square miles, a widespread 
natural cause was most probably responsible for them. The striations 
and bruisings which many of the Sub-Crag flints show are consistent 
with Warren's idea that the chief cause of the flaking was the ground- 



436 .\NNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

ing of floating ice (mainly local pack ice) wliich would have jammed 
together patches of flints strewn on the floor of the shallow sea (War- 
ren, 1948). Certain flakings strewn on an alleged land surface within 
the Red Crag at Foxhall have been widely accepted as artifacts, even by 
those who do not accept the Sub-Crag chippings. To my mind the 
Foxhall "floor" is an enigma to be further investigated, rather than a 
proof of the existence of man in Britain during the Villafranchian 
stage. 

If the Tertiary and Sub-Crag eoliths are unacceptable, what then 
are the oldest midoubted artifacts ? Certainly not those of the "Crome- 
rian industry" which has proved to be nonexistent, consisting appar- 
ently of flakings produced on the Cromer foreshore in recent times 
by the concussion of one stone against another in storms. These flak- 
ings occurred among a spread of big stones which had the appear- 
ance of passing under the Forest Bed (Warren, 1940). The only 
flaked flints found in situ at this site appear to have belonged to the 
Stone Bed of the underlying Weybourne Crag. The ochreous patina 
of the foreshore flakes was at one time regarded as proof of their antiq- 
uity, but Warren found evidence that this patination is acquired in 
a few years on the Cromer coast, possibly on account of the action 
of some alga. 

Recently Dr. Alfred Rust (1956) published an account of some 
sandstone pebbles with chipped margins found in the Mauer Sands 
of earliest Middle Pleistocene age which yielded the famous mandible 
of "/76>«io" heidelhergensis.* He kindly gave me the opportunity to 
examine his collection in 1956 ; but I must confess that I was unable 
to find any among those from the Mauer Sands which I could un- 
reservedly accept as possibly worked by man. Most of the local sand- 
stone, even before it was weathered, is too coarse and friable to make 
serviceable tools. Indeed, Heidelberg man could have cut more effec- 
tively with flakes of the hard limestone (Muschelkalk) available in 
the same valley. 

In Europe we are left with the so-called Abbevillian hand axes 
and dactonian flakes in the 40-meter terrace of the Somme as the 
oldest unquestionable artifacts. The only question here is whether 
the geological horizon of the "Abbevillian" is First Interglacial or 
an interstadial within the Second Glaciation, which is by no means 
impossible. (In fact, the same question applies to the Mauer Sands.) 

'\^nien we turn to Asia we find that the oldest undoubted artifacts 
are in the same time bracket, either immediately antedating or con- 
temporary with some phase of the Second Glaciation. The Pre-Soan 
flakes from the Boulder Conglomerate in the Punjab are not entirely 
convincing, for they may have been produced by glacial action ; but 

* Now regarded as the European equivalent of Pithecanthropua. 



TOOLS MAKYTH MAN — OAKLET 437 

there is no doubt about the chert chopping tool of Early Soan type 
found at Locality 13, Choukoutien (China), in association with fauna 
indicating a stratigraphic horizon within the period of the Second or 
Mindel Glaciation. The slightly later flake-and-chopper-tool industry 
associated with Peking man at Locality 1, Choukoutien, is now gen- 
erally regarded as dating from the beginning of the Second Inter- 
glacial period. Some authors still claim that it is older, either inter- 
Mindel or even Giinz-Mindel, but the associated fauna is clearly Middle 
Pleistocene in the modern sense. 

In Africa, particularly south of the Sahara, high-level river gravels 
of Lower Pleistocene age have been found to contain large numbers 
of chipped pebbles, mainly of quartzite, which have been widely ac- 
cepted as artifacts. These so-called pebble tools were first recognized 
in Uganda by the geologist E. J. Wayland in 1920, who referred them 
to a pre-Paleolithic stage of culture, later named Kafuan on the basis 
of their typical occm-rence on the 175-foot terrace of the Kafu River. 
In a recent monograph on the prehistory of Uganda, the late Pro- 
fessor van Riet Lowe described no less than 27 constantly recurring 
forms of "Kafuan-type split and trimmed pebbles," and claimed that 
he and Wayland could trace the evolution of rostrocarinates from 
the simple split pebble, thus providing a link with the discoveries in 
East Anglia, where Moir found a gradation from rostrocarinates to 
Chellean (Abbevillian) hand axes. Kafuan-type pebbles are even 
found in a layer of lateritic ironstone at the base of the 270-foot Kagera 
terrace which may be Lower Villafranchian or Pliocene. If there 
were no question about their being artifacts, these chipped pebbles 
would be the oldest evidence of a toolmaking hominid and would 
support the idea of an almost infinitely slow evolution of the earliest 
culture over some half a million years, from the end of the Pliocene 
to the first hand axes. 

As doubts grew about the artificiality of chipped flints in the 
Tertiary and Villafranchian formations of Europe, belief waxed 
strongly in favor of the African pebble tools, because these were not 
in flint (which breaks so easily under a variety of forces), but in 
quartzite and the like. Moreover, they were for the most part in 
situations far removed from Pleistocene glaciers and poimding sea 
^aves which have produced such quantities of pseudoartifacts in 
Europe. 

Some prehistorians are now beginning to feel that the Kafuan peb- 
bles ^ have been accepted as artifacts without sufficient consideration 
being given to the possibility that these also were fractured by nat- 
ural forces. Should not quartzite gravels of, say, Triassic age be 
searched for similar forms, to see if they are produced in circum- 



• Excluding the "advanced Kafuan" of eome authors, which Is synonymoua with the 
unquestionably human Early Oldowan. 



438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

stances where no question of tool making arises? There is a great 
need, too, for experimental work on the lines of that by the late Pro- 
fessor Barnes and Mr. "Warren, but designed to investigate the forces 
required to split quartzite pebbles. My own extremely limited obser- 
vations in Africa suggest that at least some Kafuan-like flaldngs are 
produced when gravel is carried over waterfalls.^ As for secondary 
chipping, it should not be forgotten that soil creep or solifluxion can 
occur under tropical conditions as well as under glacial. 

One of my reasons for being skeptical about the Kafuan "pebble 
tools" is their prodigality. In the summer of 1955 I was with a party 
on safari through the Katanga Province of the Belgian Congo, and 
we were taken by Prof. G. Mortelmans to an exposure of gravels at 
Kafila near Elisabethville. Within a few minutes all the members 
of the party had found more "pebble tools" in this gravel than they 
could cany away. It is true that artifacts are astonishingly abun- 
dant at some African localities on the later hand-ax horizons, but 
the profusion of chipped pebbles in the Kafilan gravel reminded me 
of the profusion of eoliths in the Sub-Crag Stone Bed. Miles Burldtt 
evidently has similar reservations to make about the Kafuan pebbles, 
for he wrote recently: "From a study of the objects themselves it is 
not easy to find enough evidence to prove that they must be the handi- 
work of Man and that the fracturing cannot have been produced by 
natural forces." There has been an undeniable tendency among us all 
to argue subconsciously like this : "Man could have made these ; they 
are of the right age for the beginning of culture; this is where we 
may expect to find artifacts; these are artifacts." 

Fortunately there are certain situations in which fractured stones 
are acceptable as artifacts, even when the flaking appears random or 
accidental. For example, many of the fragments of quartz in the 
Choukoutien cave deposits would not be recognized as humanly struck 
if they were found on the surface away from their human context. 
The quartz found at Choukoutien is foreign to the site, and can only 
have been introduced into the cave by human agency. Another situ- 
ation in which flaked stones are more readily acceptable as artifacts is 
where they occur isolated in an otherwise stoneless layer of lacustrine 
mud or sand. 

If we discount the Kafuan pebbles, the oldest undoubted artifacts in 
the world are related to or equivalent to the Oldowan culture, first 
recognized by Dr. L. S. B. Leakey in the basal bed of the series of la- 
custrine sediments exposed in the side of the Oldoway (Olduvai) 



• Perhaps mainly when, under a semlarid climate, large masses of gravel are suddenly 
moved over falls at the commencement of the rains, with the result that a proportion of 
the stones collide out of water. Since this paper was published, Dr. J. D. Clark has demon- 
strated that Kafuan-type flaking does occur through stones falling from the sides of 
gorges and striking other stones or rock surfaces out of water (Proc. Prehlst. Soc, vol. 34, 
for 1958). 



TOOLS MAKYTH MAN — OAKLEY 439 

Gorge in northern Tanganyika. The associated fauna indicates that 
Bed I of Oldoway is of early Middle Pleistocene age. The typical 
Oldowan industry found in this bed consists of pebbles or other lumps 
of rock flaked by percussion to form crude chopping tools "varying in 
size from the dimensions of a ping-pong ball to that of a croquet ball." 
The chopping edges were made by removing flakes in two directions 
along one side of the pebble or lump, so that the intersecting flake scars 
formed a jagged cutting edge. The fact that occasionally these pebble 
choppers foreshadow bifacial hand axes, and the fact that hand axes 
appear and begin to replace pebble tools in Bed II, are indications 
that the Abbevillian-Acheulian sequence of cultures evolved from the 
Oldowan. The discovery of a few apparently Oldowan-type pebbles 
in the Laetolil Beds of Tanganyika and in the Kanam Beds of Kenya 
suggested that the beginnings of Oldowan culture were to be sought in 
the Lower Pleistocene (Villafranchian) beds of Africa, but until quite 
recently there has been an element of uncertainty about all pebble tools 
from Villafranchian deposits. 

Unquestionable stone industries closely comparable with the Oldo- 
wan have now been found in North Africa and in South Africa in 
fossil-bearing deposits of Late Villafranchian age. The northern oc- 
currence was discovered by Prof. C. Arambourg in lake-margin de- 
posits at Ain Hanech in Algeria, and consisted of quantities of pebbles 
or stone lumps flaked in several directions to form subangular stone 
balls that would have served equally well as missile stones or multi- 
edged pounders. A few hand axes of Abbevillian type are reported as 
coming from an immediately overlying layer. These Algerian indus- 
tries are clearly the homotaxial equivalents of those in Beds I and II 
at Olduvai. 

The discovery in March 1953 of pebl)le tools of "advanced Kafuan" 
(I would now say "Early Oldowan") type in the calcified surface of 
the Basal Older Gravels in the 200-foot terrace of the Vaal Valley in 
South Africa was the first positive indication that toolmakers existed 
in South Africa as early as the dry phase which terminated the First 
(or Villafranchian) Pluvial period. The discovery raised a most in- 
triguing problem, because cave deposits that accumulated during this 
dry Late Villafranchian stage at Taung in Bechuanaland and at 
Sterkfontein and Makapan in the Transvaal had yielded remains of 
the subhuman Australopithecus. Was it possible that the pebble tools 
had been made by that creature ? Analyzing the evidence available 
in 1954 I argued that it was possible, but I thought unlikely for two 
reasons. In the first place, although the Australopithecines walked 
upright on two legs and qualified structurally to be regarded as Ho- 
minidae, rather than as true apes or Pongidae, nevertheless in abso- 
lute size their brains were on an average no larger than those of apes. 



440 AISTNTTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

All the known tool-making hominids had brains considerably larger 
than those of apes. The earliest known toolmakers, the Chinese rep- 
resentatives of the genus Pithecanthropus^ had skulls with average 
capacity about twice as great as that of Australopithecus. In the 
second place, Professor von Koenigswald had reported remains of an 
early Pithecanthropus in the Djetis Beds of Java which he claimed 
were of Villafranchian age. In other words, Australopithecus and 
Pithecanthropus evidently existed in the world contemporaneously, 
and at Peking at least there was evidence that the latter was capable 
of tool making. Thus it seemed most probable on the evidence avail- 
able in 1954 that the pebble tools in the Vaal valley terrace had been 
made by true men, of the Pithecanthropus group, who had penetrated 
into South Africa before their more backward relatives the Australo- 
pithecines had died out. The above hypothesis seemed to be strongly 
supported by the absence of pebble tools from all the sites where re- 
mains of Australopithecines had been discovered, suggesting that 
although pebble toolmakers existed contemporaneously with the Aus- 
tralopithecines, the two groups frequented different environments. 

The whole picture has now been altered by further discoveries. Two 
years ago, some possible pebble tools, mostly of dolomite, were found 
in the gravel bed overlying the main Australopithecine deposit in the 
Limeworks Cave at Makapan in the Transvaal. These were com- 
mented on in Antiquity, vol. 30, p. 6, March 1956, and one of the 
chipped pebbles was illustrated (pi. n) . There was considerable doubt 
as to whether these were artifacts, and the general opinion was that 
unless more convincing specimens came to light in the same bed they 
were better discounted as evidence bearing on the cultural status of 
Australopithecus. 

In May 1956 Dr. C. K. Brain discovered indubitable pebble tools of 
Oldowan type in the upper part of the Australopithecine breccias at 
Sterkfontein in South Transvaal. This is possibly the most impor- 
tant discovery in the field of paleoanthropology since the finding of 
implements with Peking man. Excavations at Sterkfontein carried 
out this year by Dr. J. T. Robinson and Revil Mason have confirmed 
beyond all doubt that the artifacts observed by Brain are part of an 
industry occurring in situ in a layer of breccia containing teeth of 
A ustralopithecus. 

It is worth reiterating that the hypothetical attribution of the 
pebble tools, not to Australopithecines themselves, but to some higher 
type of hominid living contemporaneously with Australopithecus in 
the Transvaal, has rather depended on the assumption that the two 
types would have occupied different ecological niches. As Bartholo- 
mew and Birdsell (1953) pointed out: "By analogy with the ecology 



TOOLS MAKYTH MAN — OAKLEY 



441 



of other animals it would be surprising if man and the Australo- 
pithecines ^ had remained contemporaries in the same area over very 
long periods of time, for closely related forms with similar require- 
ments rarely occupy the same area simultaneously." 





* * I* 

CMS 



,ijA 





Fig. 2. — Two of the 58 stone artifacts found in layer of red-brown breccia containing teeth 
of Australopithecus at Sterkfontein, Transvaal. Upper: Pebble-tool of Oldowan type, in 
diabase, described as utilized hammerstone. Lower: Bifacially flaked core in quartzite, 
possibly used as chopper; prototype of hand ax. It is noteworthy that diabase and 
quartzite are foreign to the site, and therefore were carried there. (After R. J. Mason, 
Archaeological Survey of S. Africa, by courtesy of the editors of Nature.) 

Brain's discovery has now shown tliat pebble tools were made at the 
very site where Australopithecics occurred. 

At the present time there is general agreement among paleonotolo- 
gists that the Australopithecine breccia at Sterkfontein is of Late 
Villafranchian (Lower Pleistocene) age. On the other hand Dr. 



' The authors \rere aBSumlns that the Australopitheclnes were noutuolmakers, in contra- 
distinction to man. 



442 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

D. A. Hooijer's further analysis of the fauna of the Djetis Beds in 
Java, which contained the remains of the earliest known examples of 
Pithecanthropus, has indicated that they are probably early Middle 
Pleistocene and not Villafranchian as previously claimed by von 
Koenigswald. While the last word on this question may not yet have 
been said, it is nevertheless true to say that there is no undisputed 
evidence that any hominids higher m type than Australopithecus were 
in existence in the world at the time when the Sterkf ontein tools were 
manufactured.^ 

So it is only our belief that systematic tool making requires a larger 
brain than the ape-size brain of Australopithecus (a belief which 
may prove to be ill fomided), that makes us hesitate to infer that the 
Sterkf ontein tools were probably made by that creature. 

Another reason for doubting that the tools were made by Australo- 
pithecus is the fact that "they have no background" at this or any 
other Australopithecine site. No pebble tool or any kind of stone 
artifact has been observed in the series of underlying layers at Sterk- 
fontein which yielded relatively abundant Australopithecine skeletal 
remains (traces of at least 16 individuals, including the skull known 
as Sterkf ontein 5 and the associated spinal column and pelvic girdle) . 
Eobinson has suggested that the absence of pebble tools from the 
underlying layers is against Australopithecus being a toolmaker "since 
on all other Stone Age sites remains of the tool-manufacturer are ex- 
tremely rare." I believe the relevant point is that, cannibalism aside, 
primates do not as a rule die or leave the remains of their dead at the 
living place (Oakley, 1954b, p. 66). In other words the substantial 
quantity of Australopithecine skeletal remains in the main bone- 
bearing breccia at Sterkfontein is consistent with the late Dr. Broom's 
suggestion that the cave was originally a carnivores' den rather than 
the actual living place of the hominid.^ The red-brown breccia con- 
taining the stone tools (and a few isolated teeth of Australopithecus 
and fragmentary animal remains) was, on the other hand, accumu- 
lated at a time when the cave had temporarily become a site of hominid 
occupation. 

There are many related issues to be considered in the light of the 
new evidence from Sterkfontein. For example, in the breccia of the 
nearby site of Swartkrans, accumulated at a later date, numerous 
remains of an aberrant Australopithecine named Paranthropus have 



*The antiquity of the fragmentary mandible of Homo cf. sapiens recorded from the 
Kanam Beds of Kenya Is now considered too doubtful to stand in the way of this 
generalization. 

•The evidence collected in South Africa recently indicating that modern hyenas do not 
carry carcasses or bones Into caves (Dart. 1957) has little bearing on the activities of ex- 
tinct species or varieties of hyena. Behavior of mammals is modified in response to en- 
vironmental, particularly biotopic, changes. There Is evidence that under subglaclal condi- 
tions In Europe the hyena Crocuta took bones Into caves, at least as long as competition by 
man did not preclude it. 



TOOLS MAKYTH MAN — OAKLEY 443 

been found, also some fragments, including a lower jaw, referred to 
a related form called ^^T elanthrofus^^ which Robinson believes may 
have been the toolmaker. However, as the Swartkrans breccia is on 
a later time horizon than the Sterkfontein tools, one feels hesitant in 
attempting to explain the latter in terms of the former.^" 

If in fact Australofithecus was the maker of the Sterkfontein tools, 
it would involve almost a revolution in our conception of "man." 
We have already seen that there is some doubt about the existence 
of "Kafuan culture." That is to say, there is no reliable evidence of 
tool making before the Late Villafranchian time level. Is it possible 
that systematic tool making arose, not gradually as most 19th-century 
evolutionists led us to imagine, but suddenly, and spread rapidly? 

The Australopithecines must have originated as apes that became 
adapted to life in open country by walking upright. There are 
many reasons to suppose, as Dart, Bartholemew, and others have 
shown, that the earliest hominids must have been tool users. Bipedal- 
ism is initially disadvantageous biologically miless there is some com- 
pensating factor — in the case of the hominids this was the ability to 
use tools and wield weapons while moving. The early hominids sur- 
vived in open country by becoming scavengers and hunters, and this 
they were enabled to do by developing "extra-corporeal limbs" (as 
O. G. S. Crawford once called tools and weapons), which could be 
changed or discarded as circumstances dictated. The earliest tools 
and weapons would have been improvizations with whatever lay ready 
to hand. Although the hominids must have begun as occasional tool 
users, ultimately they were only able to survive in the face of rigor- 
ous natural selection by developing a system of communication among 
themselves which enabled cultural tradition to take the place of 
heredity. At this point systematic tool making replaced casual tool 
using, and it may be that this changeover took place in the Australo- 
pithecine stage. 

It would not be surprising, in view of the close correlation between 
culture and cerebral development, if there had been at this stage in- 
tense selection in favor of larger brains, with the result that the tran- 
sition from the small-brained Australofithecus to the larger-brained 
Pithecanthropus took place in a comparatively short space of time. 
The discoveries at Sterkfontein suggest that pebble tools may have 
been made by Australopithecus., while Professor Arambourg's finds at 
Ternifine i^'' Atlanthrofus''^) indicate that by the time culture in Africa 
had reached the beginning of the Acheulian stage the toolmakers had 
attained the grade of Pithecanthropus. 



*» In any case some authorities doubt whether "Telanthropua" Is separable from Australo- 
pithecus (Le Gros Clarli, 1958, p. 133.) 



444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

REFERENCES 

Aeamboubg, C. 

1950. Traces possible d'une Industrie primitive dans un niveau Villafran- 

chien de I'Afrique du Nord. Bull. Soc. Prehist. Frang., vol. 47, 

pp. 348-350. 
1955. A recent discovery in human paleontology, Atlanthropus of Terni- 

fine (Algeria). Ajiier. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., n.s., vol 13, No. 2, 

pp. 191-196. 

Balout, L. 

1955. Pr6histoire de I'Afrique du Nord. Paris. (Ain Hanech, p. 159 ff.) 

Barnes, A. S. 

1939. The differences between natural and human flaking on prehistoric 

flint implements. Amer. Anthrop., vol. 41, pp. 99-112. 
1943. High-angle edge flaking of flint. Nature, vol. 152, p. 477. 
Bartholomew, G. A., and Birdseix, J. B. 

1953. Ecology and the protohominids. Amer. Anthrop., vol. 55, No. 4, pp. 
481-498. 
Bi.ACK, D. ; Teilhard de Chardin, P. ; Young, C. C. ; and Pei, W. C. 

1933. Fossil man in China: The Choukoutien cave deposits with a 
synopsis of our present knowledge of the late Cenozoic in China. 
Mem. Geol. Surv. China, ser. A, No. 11. 

Broom, R. 

1946. The occurrence and general structure of the South African ape-man. 
Transvaal Mus. Mem. No. 2, pp. 7-153. 
BUBKITT, M. C. 

1956. Some early prehistoric cultures south of the Sahara. Scientia, vol. 91, 

No. 10, pp. 304-308 (esp. p. 306). 
Crawford, O. G. S. 

1921. Man and his past. Oxford. 
Dart, R. A. 

1957. The osteodontokeratic culture of Australopithecus prometheus. 

Transvaal Mus. Mem. No. 10. 
HooiJER, D. A. 

1957. The correlation of fossil mammalian faunas and the Plio-PIeistocene 

boundary in Java. Proc. Kon. Ned. Akad., Amsterdam, ser. B, vol. 
60, No. 1. 

KOENIGSWALD, G. H. R. VON. 

1950. Fossil hominids from the Lower Pleistocene of Java. Rep. 18th Int. 

Geol. Congr., 1948, pi. 9, pp. .59-61. 
Leakey, L. S. B. 

1951. Olduvai Gorge. Cambridge. 
Le Gros Clark, Sir Wilfrid. 

1958. Bones of contention. Journ. Roy. Anthrop. Inst, vol. 88, pp. 131-145. 
Lowe, C. van Riet. 

1952. The Pleistocene geology and prehistory of Uganda, Part II. Geol. 

Surv. Uganda, Mem. No. 6. 
MoiR, J. R. 

1927. The antiquity of man in East Anglia. Cambridge. 
Movius, H. L. 

1949. The lower palaeolithic cultures of southern and eastern Asia. Trans. 
Amer. Philos. Soc, n.s., vol. 38, pt. 4. (Pre-Soan, p. 377, Locality 13, 
p. 390.) 



TOOLS MAKYTH MAN — OAKLEY 445 

Oaklet, K. P. 

1949. Man the toolmaker. British Mus. (Nat. Hist), London. (4th ed., 

1958.) 
1954a. The dating of the Australopithecinae of Africa. Amer. Journ. Phys. 

Anthrop., n.s., vol. 12, pp. 9-28. 
1954b. Early man in Africa. South African Arch. Bull., vol. 9, pp. 64-68. 
Obebmaieb, H. 

1924. Fossil man in Spain. New Haven. (Good account of eolith con- 
troversy, pp. 1-18.) 
Pei, W. C. 

1934. Report on the excavation of the Locality 13 in Choukoutien. Bull. 
Geol. Soc. China, vol. 13, No. 3, pp. 359-367. 
Robinson, J. T., and Mason, R. J. 

1957. Occurrence of stone artifacts with Au8t7-alopithecus at Sterkfontein. 
Nature, vol. 180, pp. 521-524. 
Rust, A. 

1956. ArtefaJite aus der Zeit des Homo heidelbergensis in Siid- und Nord- 
deutschland. Bonn. 
Wabben, S. H. 

1940. Geological and prehistoric traps. Essex Nat., vol. 27, pp. 13-19. 
1948. The Crag Platform : its geology and archaeological problem. S. E. 
Nat. and Antiq., vol. 53, pp. 48-52. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as 
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institute, Washington 25, D.C. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958.— Hallowell 



PLATE 1 



FllONTISPIECE. 




A?i American Indian cmlK.nplcting the progress of civilization. 



Ti'ii-Ti s ag 



From "A Pictorial History of the United Stales," by S. G. Goodrich. PhiLidelphia, 1845. 



The Backwash of the Frontier: The Impact 
of the Indian on American Culture' 



By A. Irving Hallowell 

Department of Anthropology, University of Pennsylvania 



[With 8 plates] 



Ax,THOUGH Frederick Jackson Turner and his disciples have made 
little point of the influence of the American Indian upon our civiliza- 
tion, it is the Indian's continuing presence throughout our whole 
colonial and national history that has given many aspects of our cul- 
ture a special coloring. In this respect, our national experience differs 
from that of any western European nation, though our culture is 
continuous with that of Europe. Recently, Bernard De Voto has 
stressed the manifold nature of this unique historical situation and its 
neglect by historians ^ : 

Most American history has been written as if history were a function solely of 
white culture — in spite of the fact that till well into the nineteenth century the 
Indians were one of the principal determinants of historical events. Those 
of us who work in frontier history — which begins at the tidal beaches and when 
the sixteenth century begins — are repeatedly nonplused to discover how little 
has been done for us in regard to the one force bearing on our field that was 
active everywhere. Disregarding Parkman's great example, American his- 
torians have made shockingly little effort to understand the life, the societies, 
the cultures, the thinking, and the feeling of the Indians, and disastrously little 
effort to understand how all these affected white men and their societies. 

It is discernible Indian influences of this sort that have formed 
what I have called "the backwash of the frontier," fertile silt carried 
on the currents and eddies left by the turmoil on the borderlands. 
Many other factors besides frontier conditions were involved in the 
further development of these influences — factors too complex to 
analyze here. Ajid the problem is complicated by the extreme di- 
versity of America's reactions to the Indian and his cultures ; by the 
manner in which Indian influences have been mediated, the varying 



1 Reprinted, by permission of the copyright owners, the Regents of the University of 
Wisconsin, from The Frontier in Perspective (Walker D. Wyman and Clifton B. Kroeber, 
editors), 1957, the University of Wisconsin Press. 

* Joseph K. Howard, "Strange Empire," p. 8. New York. 19.52. 

447 
492520— 59-— 30 



448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

forms they have assumed at different periods of our national existence, 
and their depth. Most often they have been manifested at the vernacu- 
lar level of American culture, one expression of our cultural provin- 
cialism, which is perhaps the reason so little systematic attention has 
been paid to them. Our contacts with the Indians have affected our 
speech, our economic life, our clothing, our sports and recreations, 
certain indigenous religious cults, many of our curative practices, 
folk and concert music, the novel, poetry, drama, and even some of 
our basic psychological attitudes, and one of the social sciences, 
anthropology. 

To the outside world there is a closer association of the Indian with 
the image of America than perhaps we are aware of. For example. 
Cooper's "The Last of the Mohicans" is not only read by every Amer- 
ican schoolchild, but it has been said to be the best-known American 
novel in the world. So too, "Hiawatha," Longfellow's poetic image of 
the Indian, is widely read and translated in other countries. Ivan 
Bunin, the Russian poet and novelist, "is probably as well recognized 
for his translation of 'Hiawatha' as for any of his original works." ^ 

Americans have created a whole succession of images of the Indian, 
some literary and interpretative, some growing out of direct contact 
of particular types of white men with him and changing with his- 
torical circumstances. Although the Pope declared as far back as 
1512 that the natives of America were descended from Adam and Eve, 
in colonial New England Cotton blather thought that "probably the 
Devil decoy'd . . . [them] . . . hither, in hopes that the gospel of the 
Lord Jesus Christ would never come here to destroy or disturb his 
absolute empire over them." As God's elected agents and under his 
"wonder-working Providence," the colonists must convert these 
"tawney serpents" or annihilate them. However, the Indian was 
never simply The Enemy. On the earliest frontiers, the colonists were 
befriended by the natives. Who has not heard of Squanto? White 
men from the beginning profited in many practical ways from the 
Indians' laiowledge of their own country and through intimate con- 
tacts learned about their customs, manner of thought, and character, 
and were influenced by them. 

During the 18th century, when in England and on the Continent a 
literary image of the noble savage, partly derived from ideas about 
the Indian, was being created, the colonists greatly deepened their 
firsthand knowledge of the American natives. Trading activities 
brought tribal groups over a wider range into contact with the colon- 
ists. The Indians were not always fought against; on occasion they 
were comrades-in-arms, and aboriginal methods of fighting influenced 



•Clarence Golldes, The reception of some nineteenth-century American authors in 
Europe, in "The American Writer and the European Tradition," ed. Margaret Denny and 
W, H. GUman, p. 116. Minneapolis. 1950. 



BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER — HALLOWELL 449 

the colonists. The speeches made by Indians in treaty negotiations 
aroused so much interest in native oratory that a novel literary form, 
with no prototype in Europe, emerged. Verbatim reports of these 
conferences were widely circulated and read in printed form. It 
has even been said that information about the organization and 
operation of the League of the Iroquois, which Franklin picked up 
at various Indian councils, suggested to him the pattern for a United 
States of i\jnerica. In any case it was Franklin whose appreciation 
of the attitude of the Indians toward their own culture led him to 
express the anthropological principle of the relativity of culture 
norms when, in 1784, he wrote : "Savages we call them, because their 
manners diiler from ours, which we think the Perfection of Civility : 
they think the same of theirs." * 

As the eastern frontier receded westward and for most Americans 
the contemporary Indians could be viewed at a comfortable distance, 
it was their decline that became a romantic literary theme. As ex- 
pressed in poetry, drama, and the novel, it was an early backwash 
of the frontier. But it was by no means always the noble savage 
that was depicted ; a double image was created — the savage as ignoble 
as well as noble. During this period, the first half of the 19th cen- 
tury, when the Indian was such a popular figure in American litera- 
ture, it is particularly significant that most of the authors who dealt 
with Indian themes derived their information from written sources 
rather than from direct observation. Cooper depended on Hecke- 
welder's writings, and Longfellow on Schoolcraft's "Algic Re- 
searches" (1839). It has been said that "Cooper poured the 
prejudices of John Hecke welder into the Leatherstocking mold, and 
produced the Indian of nineteenth century convention." ^ The authors 
who were busy writing about the Indians were far removed from the 
men who faced them on the new frontiers. 

Two and a half centuries after Englishmen on the eastern frontier 
faced the Indian, American frontiersmen in the Mississippi Valley 
and the Far West found themselves in a parallel situation and re- 
garded him in much the same hostile light — the Indian blocked the 
path of America's "manifest destiny." In 1867, the Topeka Weekly 
Leader spoke for the West when it characterized the Indians as "a 
set of miserable, dirty, lousy, blanketed, thieving, lying, sneaking, 
murdering, graceless, faithless, gut-eating skunks as the Lord ever 
permitted to infect the earth, and whose immediate and final exter- 
mination all men, except Indian agents and traders, should pray for." " 



• Alfred O. Aldridge, Franklin's delstlcal Indians, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, vol. 94, 
p. 398, 1950. 

• Paul A. W. Wallace, John Heckewelder's Indians and the Fennlmore Cooper tradition, 
Ibid., vol. 90, p. 500. 1952. 

• Robert Taft, "Artists and Illustrators of the Old West, 1850-1900," p. 66. New York. 
1953. 



450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITOSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 




TREATY of FRIENDSHIP, ifc. 




September y 17^6. 

-HE Chiefs of the 5/'* Nations having been cxpeded at ^A/- 
ladelphia thelc four Years paft, to confirm the Treaty made 
with Ibme of them, who came down in the Year 173*, 
Conrad Wyfer our Interpreter, about the Beginning of this 
Month, advifed from Tulpyhokin^ that he had certain Intel- 
ligence from Ibme Indians fent before him, that there was a 
large Number of thofe People with their Chiefs, arrived at 
Shamokin on Safquehannah \ upon which he was direfted to repair thither to 
attend them, and fupply them with Neceflaries in their Journey hither. 

On the Twenty-Jeventh of this Month, about a Hundred or more of them 
came with Conrad to the Prefident's Houfc, at StentoHy being near the Road, 
where fuitable Entertainment was provided for thern ; and the next Day 
the Honourable the Proprietor, and fomc of the Council, with other Gen- 
tlemen coming thither from Philadelphia \ after Dinner 

A Council was held at Stenton, September a8. 173^. 

PRESENT, 

The Honourable THO MAS <P E N Ny Efqj Proprietary. 

JAMES LOGAN, Efqj PrefidenL 



Samuel ^rejioriy 
Ckment ^Utmjedy 



Ralph As/hetofiy 
Thomas Grifitts, 



?Efqr»j 



And the following Indian Chiefs, to wit. 



Of the TS ANANDOWANS 
or SINEKAS. 
KanickhungOy SpcaJcer. 
Tqgach/haholeOy 
Sagoyatundachquaiy 
AskotaXy 
Heta^uantegechtyy Speaker. 



ONANDAGOES. 

KabiskeroT^ane (grother to 
their former great Chief 
Conojfoorah at Albany) 

Tagunmnteey 

Kaxhaayn, 

Kuchdacharyy 

Saweegatee-o. 



CAYOOGES. 



Figs. 1 and 2 (on opposite page). — ^Title pages of the published accounts of two Pennsyl- 
vania Indian treaty conferences of the type widely read for their literary value in the 
18th century. 



BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER — HALLOWELL 



451 



TREATY 

HELD BY 

COMMISSIONERS, 

Members of the COUNCIL of die 

Province of PENNSTLFANIA, 

At the Town of LANCASTER, 

With fomc Chiefs of the SIX NATIONS at OHIO, and 
others, for the Admiffion of the Twightwee Nation into the 
Alliance of his Majesty, G?f. in the Month of Jufyy 1748. 




P H I LA D E L P H I A: 

Printed and Sold by B. F R A NKLIN, at the New 

Printing-office, near the Market. MDCCXLVIII. 



Fig. 2 



452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Cotton Mather's terser characterization of the "tawney serpents" 
seems almost mild and dignified beside this scathing blast. 

"Wrestling with his own day-to-day problems, with the Long Hairs 
not far off, the trans-Mississippi frontiersman was in no position to 
appreciate the extent to which the Indians already had affected 
American culture. And it would be interesting to know how many 
Americans on this frontier had read "Hiawatha." Certainly, few of 
them could have imagined that, when the West was won and the 
Indians were safely settled on reservations, native arts and crafts 
would be appreciated for their esthetic values and widely exhibited, 
musicians and poets would visit these remaining enclaves of Indian 
culture to study their music and songs at firsthand, and a museum de- 
voted exclusively to the preservation and exhibition of Indian objects 
would be established in the largest city of the Nation. What would 
have surprised them more, perhaps, if they could have looked at a 
Boy Scout Handbook of the 20th century, is the statement that it "is 
a pity that most boys think of headdresses, war whoops, tomahawks, 
and scalps the instant Indians are mentioned. . . . There are so many 
thousands of beautiful and desirable things in their lives that it is 
safe to say that they can offer boys a mighty good code of sport and 
happiness." And among the other things that would strike the 
frontiersman forcibly would be the requirement that, in order to win 
a merit badge in Indian lore, the Boy Scout must learn the Omaha 
Tribal Prayer. Yes, the Omaha, one of those dastardly Siouan 
tribes — the gut-eating skunks ! 

But if the Midwestern frontiersman had been interested enough, 
he would have discovered that the word "skunk," which he could so 
glibly hurl at the Long Hairs as a derogatory epithet, was derived 
from an Indian language and had entered American speech in the 
17th century. The borrowing of words as well as traits of Indian cul- 
ture, like the use of corn, had been going on for a long time. Re- 
ferred to by anthropologists as cultural diffusion, this kind of cultural 
borrowing is a process that has been occurring throughout the entire 
history of man. It has been one of the main stimuli of cultural 
change. When people of different cultures meet and social inter- 
action takes place, this situation inevitably eventuates in some cultural 
borrowing on the part of either or both peoples. 

In the past two decades, cultural anthropologists in this country 
have devoted increasing attention to detailed studies of the effects of 
Euro-American culture upon the Indians, that is, acculturation, 
rather than confining themselves, as was once the case, primarily 
to the collection of data that would make it possible to reconstruct 
an ethnographic picture of aboriginal life in its undisturbed form. 
On the other hand, although recognizing that in principle accul- 
turation is seldom if ever a one-way process, anthropologists have 



BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER — ^HALLOWELL 453 

paid scarcely any attention to the total effects upon American cul- 
ture of our continuing contacts with Indians. 

One of the things that anthropologists have discovered is that 
while Indians may "clothe" themselves, so to speak, with many of 
the accouterments of white man's culture, this is often no more 
than skindeep. Even when the Indian is brought into close contact 
with the white man for more than a generation, and despite mission- 
ary efforts and educational opportunities, there is a psycliological lag 
to be taken into account which indicates a dimension of the accultu- 
ration process about which we know too little. 

In contrast to this side of the acculturalization picture in the United 
States, it is interesting to recall, when white adults, and especially 
children, were captured in the 17th, 18th, and early 19th centuries by 
many different groups of Indians and lived among them in daily in- 
timacy, the apparent ease with which these individuals adjusted them- 
selves to Indian culture. Turner speaks of the "occasional instances 
of Puritans returning from captivity to visit the frontier towns, Cath- 
olic in religion, painted and garbed as Indians and speaking the Indian 
tongue, and the half breed children of captive Puritan mothers." 
\'\niile there were many hundreds of white captives taken, we have 
detailed and reliable information on only a few cases, including indi- 
viduals who were abducted as children. These "white Indians" often 
refused to return to the mode of life into which they had been born, 
even when given an opportunity.'^ In the 18th century Crevecoeur 
asked : "By what power does it come to pass, that children who have 
been adopted when young among these people, can never be prevailed 
on to readopt European manners?" Such individuals sometimes for- 
got their native speech, like Cynthia Ann Parker, captured by the 
Comanches in 1836 at the age of 9. When recaptured by the whites 
as a grown woman, all she could remember was her name. Other 
captives praised Indian character and morals and some of them 
adopted an Indian world view and religious beliefs. It was said of 
Mary Jemison, abducted in 1758 at the age of 15, that "she was as 
strong a pagan in her feelings as any Indian," that all her religious 
ideas conformed to those of the Senecas, and that "the doctrine taught 
in the Christian religion she is a stranger to." Of William Failey, 
abducted in 1837, his brother-in-law and biographer wrote : "In fact, 
his long residence among the Indians has made him an Indian." Don 
Ryan in "The Warriors' Path" (1937) and Conrad Richter in "The 
Light in the Forest" (1953) have given this theme modern novelistic 
treatment. The latter book was soon republished in paperback form 
(1954), and Walt Disney has made a movie of it. 

Benjamin Franklin must have been highly impressed by the atti- 



» Erwin H. Ackerknecht, White Indians, Bull. Hist. Med., vol. 15, pp. 26, 30, 1944. 



454 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

tude which the Six Nations assumed toward the vahies of their own 
culture as compared with that of the whites. An anecdote, in several 
forms, appears in his writings which presumably was derived from 
the considered response these Indians made when, during the Lan- 
caster conference in 1744, it was suggested that if they so desired some 
of their boys might be sent to Williamsburg for a white education. 
The Iroquois countered with the proposition that "if the English 
Gentlemen would send a Dozen or two of their children to Onondago, 
the great council would take care of their Education, bring them up 
in really what was the best Manner and make men of them." ^ 

These Indians not only felt secure in their own values; they felt 
free to appraise those of the white man. And the captives who be- 
came "white Indians" discovered that the actual manner of life of the 
natives was something other than the literary images of the noble 
savage or the fiendish red man. The Indian cultures contained values 
which the white child could assimilate, live by, and in adulthood re- 
fuse to relinquish. Old AVhite Boy and all his sons became Seneca 
chiefs. Even aside from captives, there were white men on the frontier 
who became semiacculturated to Indian ways. Sam Houston, in his 
early days, lived with the Cherokees. It has not been sufficiently 
stressed that Leatherstocking, the most famous internationally of all 
characters in American fiction, falls into this category. Although a 
white man by "natur," he had Indian "gifts." He is said to have "ac- 
quired some knowledge of most of the Indian dialects." During his 
early life, he lived among the Delawares and long before they called 
him Deerslayer, he had successively borne three other Indian nick- 
names. On occasion, he identified himself with the Delawares and 
their aboriginal values. IVhen contemplating torture by the Hurons, 
he says he will strive "not to disgrace the people among whom I got my 
training." And the Huron chiefs, uncertain about his return from the 
brief furlough granted him, entertained "the hope of disgracing the 
Delawares by casting into their teeth the delinquency of one held in 
their villages." Wliile they would have preferred to torture his In- 
dian comrade Chingachgook, they thought the "pale face scion of the 
hated stock was no bad substitute for their purposes." Quite aside 
from his characterization as the honest, resourceful, intrepid frontiers- 
man and scout, the uniqueness of Leatherstocking as the first white 
man in fiction represented as acculturated in his youth to Indian 
languages, customs, and values, should not be overlooked. 

From a contemporary vantage point, I believe that our relations 
with the Indians involve one distinct peculiarity which might have 
been difficult to predict at an earlier period of our history. Despite 
our achievement of political dominance, considerable race mixture, 
and the effects of acculturation on the native peoples, neither the In- 



• Aldridge, Franklin's delsUcal Indians, p. 399. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Hallowell 



PLATE 2 



>^ 



w 



Ho!. 

6 a! v>: 



o 


Pi 




w 


^ 




>. :^ < <• ti. .- o c** ^ 


J5 


O ; 




< 


<! 


O 

a 




H 




= P 


S 


•->, 




-i ^ '^ 


w 
< 


c/5 


Q 


° o 

erf 
w 
Q 




< 

O 






HH 


< 




t*. 


o 






ffi 


0^ 


u. 









?, -^ 






--^ 












•Sh 



fc( 



Smithsonian Report, 1958.— Hallowell 



■.^JJMHMIi 



Plate 3 




Deh-ge-wa-nus [Mary Jemison], ''the golden-haired Seneca," in full Indian 
costume carrying her baby on a cradleboard. Bronze statue in Letch- 
worth State Park, New York. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Hallowell 



Plate 4 




'*V»* 



I ° 
1) OO <L> 

ns -^ — r: 



o 



i ^ -2 

C C ^ 

•« .2 2: 
' ^ -^^ 

-o .2 M 



3 .H 

O >- 

u <u 

^ s 



Oh '^ 

2Q 






60 O 



0. ^i5 




Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Hallowell 



Plate 5 




Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Hallowell 



(/ <:hz^-i 




Plate 6 










03 


JJ 


4J "„ 








r* u- 




^ 


o 


rt OS 






u 


&C lU 






'u 


>. J^' 




O 


rt 


OJ j_, 




a 


.S 


•5 -S 




O 


S 


-gw 




u-> 


^ 


^^ 




p 


Tj 




O 








^ 


s 


•* (11 
(U ^ 






(U 


y o 






^ 


C >7 




2:: 


-a 


'? M 




c« 


OJ 


i •";-, 




J3 


4-1 

OS 
<U 


bD u: 




Tj" 






1) 




u 




o 


>> 


<u i^ 




3 


OJ 


J3 



■ I 



s * 

(U 

OX) aj 



Cl, "S CO 

rt fe t: 

^ 13 O 



3 "^ a c 
« ^ 2 



tn O S2 S 

^ ° £ S 



"5 -e 



(U ^ 



1) -t! 
5 o 






&o 



g^ a 



a ■" ^ 

rt +-' .2 

CI, ^ -j3 

O • t, " JS 

^ P O .2 ^ 

y g fe t^ C> 

'^ '^ ^ 2 



OS 



OS 



JS C ni g D 
O O 









Smithsonian Report, 1958, — Hallowell 



Plate 7 




American Indian motif, created by Tom Two Arrows, talented young Indian artist, inter- 
preted on fine china. (Courtesy of H. E. Lauffer Co., Inc., New York City.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Hallowell 



PLATE 





CL, 



BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER — HALLOWELL 455 

dian nor his culture has completely vanished from our midst. The 
question arises, have the Indian cultures of the postf rentier period com- 
pletely ceased to influence us? The answer is no. One effect of the 
reservation system has been the conservation of those aspects of the 
native cultures that had survived all the vicissitudes of previous con- 
tacts with the white race. A new potential source of influence on our 
20th-century culture was created. Before we can turn to the nature 
of this influence, however, it is necessary to obtain the wider historic 
perspective that a more systematic consideration of the older lines of 
influence will provide us. 

In the first place, it could have been predicted that, as a result 
of the colonization of the New World, loan words would appear in 
various Indo-European languages that could be traced to aboriginal 
American languages. Besides the nouns borrowed to designate objects 
unknown in England, there are many expressions in American English 
that reflect Indian influence — hurying the hatchet^ Indian summer^ 
Indian giver^ happy hunting ground^ and war painty used by the 
American woman. Buck as a slang expression for dollar harks back 
to the Indian fur trade when prices had reference to beavers or buck- 
skins. Place names of Indian origin are, of course, legion — the names 
of 26 States, 18 of our largest cities, thousands of small towns, most 
of the long rivers and large lakes, and a few of the highest mountains 
are of Indian derivation. 

Having come to a country new to them, it was inevitable that the 
colonists, whose traditional culture had not prepared them to live as 
they had to live here, should be influenced by those aspects of Indian 
culture that had immediate practical advantages in daily life. In 
any case, the determinative importance of the fact that this was not 
in any sense a virgin land must not be forgotten. The countless 
generations of Indians had left their imprints upon the landscape. 
Without the plow, the soil had been cultivated, and the raising of 
native crops was as typical over wide areas as was hunting and fishing. 
It is still debatable how far the actual virgin terrain had been radically 
modified by burning, girdling, and tilling. There were narrow forest 
trails, trodden by moccasined feet, that were already old, and the 
whites made use of them in their own system of overland communica- 
tion, developing some of them into highways eventually connecting 
great centers of American civilization. Then there were the earth- 
works of an older Indian population in the Old Northwest Territory 
which influenced the patterning of some early white settlements. The 
"pilgrims" who founded Marietta, Ohio, found it convenient to moor 
their flatboats "at the foot of a raised terrace the Mound Builders had 
once used as an avenue between their temple and the river." Circle- 
ville takes its name from the fact that in the laying out of the original 



456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

town, concentric circles of aboriginal earthworks were closely fol- 
lowed by the outlying streets. An octagonal courthouse, surrounded 
by a circular green, became the hub of the town. And it is said that 
"in the Wabash River bottoms, in the early spring, many farmhouses 
stand high and dry on a wooded burial mound while all the fields are 
under water." ^ 

Among the early settlers, communication by water was everywhere 
the most important. While they were familiar with certain types 
of watercraft in their own culture, they and their descendants have 
been influenced by at least two types used by the Indians, the Chesa- 
peake Bay log canoe and the bark canoe of the north. 

From a European point of view, the Indians wearing moccasins, 
leggings, and breechclouts were considered to be relatively naked 
compared to themselves. However, considered in a very broad 
culture-historical perspective, their own style and that of the 
aborigines shared a generic trait in common: throughout the 
boreal regions of the Northern Hemisphere, clothing of the fitted 
or tailored type prevails, standing in marked contrast to the un- 
tailored style once found in the ancient Mediterranean region, 
Africa, and Central and South America. In all these latter regions, 
for example, nothing like the fitted footgear represented by the 
boot, shoe, or moccasin is found. While the practice never spread 
beyond the frontier itself, nevertheless there were white men who 
adopted the wearing of not only Indian moccasins, but leggings 
and a breechclout as well. The moccasin, of course, is the most 
noted item of Indian clothing that was used by white men very early. 
It was a fitted type of footgear, and if the colonists had been Romans, 
this item of clothing might not have been borrowed so quickly, or 
its use continued. Turner has noted that the General Court of Mas- 
sachusetts once ordered 500 pairs each of snowshoes and moccasins 
for use in the frontier counties. Much later, footgear of this type 
was used by lumbermen. In the backwoods of Manitoba in the 1930's, 
a clergyman of my acquaintance always wore a pair of his best beaded 
moccasins in the pulpit on Sundays. It would be interesting to know 
more about the commercialization of the moccasin type of shoe which 
we see increasingly on the feet of Americans today. 

It was, however, the discovery of the plants cultivated by the New 
World aborigines that from the very first produced the most pro- 
found impact on both European and American culture, revolution- 
izing the food economy and diet of Old World peoples and at the 
same time laying one of the foundations on which was to rise the 
distinctive structure of American agriculture. Of the several 
plants — maize, beans, pumpkins, squash, and others — maize in partic- 



8 Walter Havlffhurst, "Land of Promise, the story of the Northwest Territory," pp. 24- 
25, 158. New York. 1946. 



BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER — HALLOWELL 457 

ular was important from the start, taking precedence over the grain 
which the settlers had brought from Europe. It became a primary 
factor in the acculturation of the Englishmen to an American way 
of life. We need think only of corn on the cob, cornbread, Indian 
pudding, hominy, mush, grits, succotash, and corn sirup; of break- 
fast cereals, cornstarch, and popcorn ; or of corncob pipes and bour- 
bon, to understand the extent of this Indian contribution to our 
civilization today. 

Tobacco is an equally significant "gift" of the American Indians, 
symbolized by the once-familiar figure of the "wooden Indian" in- 
extricably linked with the tobacco shop in the 19th century. The 
history and use of it in our culture present a number of features in 
cultural borrowing at large. Readaptation to the values of the bor- 
rowing people is well illustrated. The consumption of tobacco was 
completely divorced from the ceremonial context in which it appeared 
among the Indians and became purely secular. 

Peruvian bark, now known as quinine, proved highly sensational 
since it was a specific for malaria. It reached Spain before the 
middle of the I7th century and was soon introduced into the English 
colonies. In Virginia, Governor Berkeley said in 1671 that whereas 
formerly one person in five had died of fever in his first year, now al- 
most no one succumbed. When one considers that in this same century 
Governor Winthrop's famous remedy for ulcers consisted of "one 
ounce of crabbe's eyes and four ounces of strong wine vinegar," the 
general state of colonial medicine can be well appreciated, and the 
reason why Peruvian bark, an Indian herbal, achieved such high fame 
can be easily understood. Indian medicine was likewise given a boost 
when, in 1738, Dr. John Tennent was awarded 100 pounds by the 
Virginia House of Burgesses for curing pleurisy with Seneca rattle- 
snake root. As William Fenton well says, when Western medicine 
met Indian herbalism, the former "was still carrying a heavy burden 
of medieval practices so that the first few physicians in the colonies 
were but several centuries advanced from the Indian shaman who 
selected his herbs thinking of the effect that their appearance might 
contribute to the disease, and guaranteed their efficiency with incan- 
tations and feats of magic. Moreover, the average settler had brought 
from the Old World a knowledge of herbs that in kind was not 
unlike that of the Indian, but as newcomers they were unfamiliar 
with New World plants, and although the level of their own popular 
medicine did not set them above adopting Indian remedies, the Indian 
herbalist whose knowledge was power was not always a ready 
teacher." ^° In "The Pioneers," Cooper pictures for us how "Doctor" 
Elnathan Todd managed to steal one of John Mohegan's remedies. 



*• W. N. Fenton, Contacts between Iroquois herbalism and colonial medicine, Ann. Rep. 
Smithsonian lust, for 1941, pp. 505-506. 



458 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Popular confidence in Indian medicine remained strong during the 
early 19th century, when the population was flowing over the Appa- 
lachians, The "j^arb and root" doctor, red or white, played a prom- 
inent role in many connnunities. In 1813 in Cincinnati there was 
published "The Indian Doctor's Dispensatory." Other books fol- 
lowed, including Selman's "The Indian Guide to Health" (1836) and 
Foster's "The North American Indian Doctor, or Nature's Method 
of Curing and Preventing Disease According to the Indians" (1838). 
In a lecture given at the New York Academy of Medicine in 1936, 
Dr. Harlow Brooks (emeritus professor of clinical medicine, New 
York University) said: 

The universal testimony of those qualified to judge has been that even vpithin 
the memory of my generation we have incorporated into our pharmacopoeia and 
Ijractice a good many practices and drugs of our Indian predecessors. . . . 
The leading doctor in my boyhood memory, in the district in which my parents 
settled, was an old Sioux medicine man, whose services were considered by the 
territorial government so valuable that when his tribe was removed to a reser- 
vation he was asked to remain with his white patients, among whom were 
my own parents. I am sure that much of the medicine I received as an infant 
and child was derived directly from the lore of this fine, learned, and much 
respected old man. In those days it was on the service of these men that our 
pioneers relied for medical help; otherwise, little or none at all was avail- 
able to the early settler." 

What is particularly interesting is not merely the incorporation 
in our pharmacopoeia of some aboriginal drugs, but the positive 
attitude toward Indian medicine and charms that has persisted into 
the 20th century. For instance, old Seneca families still sell 
wild flowers and sassafras on certain street corners in Buffalo, and 
the Pamunkey Indians of Virginia until a decade ago went to Wash- 
ington every spring to sell sassafras and other herbs. In "Triple 
Western" (fall, 1954) there is a short item on "Medicine Man's 
Wisdom." 

The potencies attributed to Indian herbal remedies have had still 
other manifestations in our culture, an important one being the med- 
icine show. Wliile not all these shows made use of the Indian, 
most of them did. It has been said that "as a symbol" the native 
"was as important to the med-show platform as the wooden Indian 
was to the tobacco shop." It exploited the image that had already 
been created of him as a "healer." When Chief Chauncey Kills-in- 
the-Bush Yellow Robe died, eulogies appeared in the theatrical press. 
Rolling Thunder, the owner of the Kiowa Indian Medicine and Vaude- 
ville Company, commented on these as follows : 

It is fine to see this intelligent recognition of the life work of an Indian. 
Too many people have always thought of the American Indian as next to a 
beast. There are some who are now learning the truth : that the Indian's dnig- 



" Harlow Brooks, The contribution of the primitive American to medicine, in I. Goldston 
(ed.), "Medicine and Mankind," p. 87. New York. 1936. 



BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER — HALLOWELL 459 

store was always the field and the forest, where the herbs he uses in his medi- 
cines are gathered as God placed them for him to use, and God gave the Indian 
the knowledge to gather and compound them. That is why the Indian as a 
healer has been a success." 

Tlie authors of "Show Biz" say that "when the Kickapoo Indian 
Medicine Company went on the block in 1911, after 30 years roaming 
the American plains and hamlets, it still brought $250,000. At one 
time, there were 150 medicine shows on the road, all of them featuring 
one or more Kickapoo Indians." ^' It may be pointed out in passing 
that at the same time that the image of the Indian as a healer was 
being exploited in the medicine show, the old image of him as a 
bloodthirsty enemy was being dramatized by the Wild West show 
that William F. Cody took on the road in 1883 and which in various 
incarnations and imitations continued until 1931, when the 101 Ranch 
closed down. 

The red man also became involved in another characteristic area 
of American cultural development in the years before the Civil War — 
religion. In Spiritualism, the United Society of Believers (Shakers), 
and the Church of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), the American In- 
dians had special significance for the founders or adherents. Ac- 
cording to Shaker tradition, "it was a native of the forest who first 
recognized the saintliness of Mother Ann. One poor Indian saw a 
bright light around her, and prophesied that the Great Spirit had 
sent her to do much good. In another story it is related that when 
Ann was returning from her eastern mission, she was met at the 
Albany ferry by a number of Indians, who joyfully cried: 'The 
good woman is come! The good woman is come!' " " "^Vhat other 
religious sect in the world has turned to an aboriginal people for 
validation of the saintliness of the founder? Besides this, some 
of the Shaker "gift songs" received in trance came from Indian 
spirits. Once the spirits of a whole tribe of Indians, who had died 
before Columbus discovered America and had been wandering home- 
less ever since, turned up at a Shaker meetinghouse, where they were 
made welcome. As described by an eyewitness, more than a dozen of 
the Shakers present became possessed by these Indian guests. A 
poAv-wow ensued. There were yells, whoops, and strange antics. The 
Indian spirits asked for succotash, which they ate, and after some 
instruction were sent off under guidance "to the Shakers' heavenly 
world." 

Although "speaking in tongues" had a long history in Europe 
as well as in America, one of the striking facts in the early develop- 
mental phases of American Spiritualism is the frequency of refer- 



" Wlnnlfred Johnston, Medicine Show, Southwest Rev., vol. 21, p. 393. 1936. 
" Abel Green and Joe Laurie, Jr., "Show Biz, from Vaude to Video," p. 83. New York. 
1953. 

i*E. D. Andrews, "The People Called Shakers," p. 169. New York. 1953. 



460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

ences to mediums speaking Indian languages and to those who had 
an Indian "control" or "guide." The names of more than a dozen 
mediums, men and women and their Indian controls, appear in the 
"Encyclopaedia of Psychic Science." Such historic figures as Red 
Jacket, Black Hawk, and Tecumseh are on the list, as well as spirits 
with such names as White Feather, Bright Eyes, and Moonstone. 
What is particularly significant is that these Indian spirits were 
thought to be beneficent in their influence, especially because of their 
healing powers, although they often manifested themselves at seances 
in a somewhat rambunctious manner. As time went on and spirit 
photography was introduced, some of these spirits appeared in native 
costume in the photographs. 

It would seem that no other American religious sect, with the pos- 
sible exception of the Shakers, felt such a genuine affinity with the 
aborigines. "Wliile there was no question of borrowing Indian beliefs 
as such, nevertheless the Spiritualists saw analogies to their own views 
and practices. One of these was the "shaking tent" rite of the Algon- 
kians of the eastern woodlands (which has been described elsewhere) .^^ 
Into a framework of poles covered with birchbark or canvas a conjurer 
goes ; the tent sways and voices are heard which, however, are usually 
believed to be nonhuman. An early historian of American Spir- 
itualism, writing in 1870, after referring to some of these rites, says : 

Such are some of the phases in which communication exhibits itself amongst a 
people whom we call "savage" and whom, in comparison to our more advanced 
civilization, we may justly call so ; and yet, does our knowledge of the occult 
and invisible forces in nature furnish us with any clue to the mystery of these 
astounding manifestations or the power by which the unlettered "savage" can 
avail himself of a knowledge which all our control over the elements fnils to 
compete with? In a word, the red Indian can do what we can neither explain 
nor imitate.^^ 

This interest of the Spiritualists in the Indian and his ways has con- 
tinued down to the present. At Lily Dale, N.Y., the summer mecca of 
Spiritualists, which commemorated its 50th anniversary in 1020, it has 
been customary to celebrate Indian Day with parades and dances given 
by natives from nearby reservations. 

To turn now to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-dny Saints, 
the attitude of the adherents of this indigenous American sect toward 
the Indians is in sharp contrast with that of the Spiritualists. Ac- 
cording to "The Book of Mormon," the red men are essentially the de- 
generate posterity of a rebellious segment of a small group of Jews 
who, migrating to the New World before the beginning of the Christian 
era, brought with them an advanced culture. Consequently, it is said 



"A. Irving Hallowell, "The Role of Conjuring In Snulteaux Socletv." PMIadelphla. 
1942. 

"Emma Hardinge [Emma Hardlnare Brlttpn]. "History of Modern American Spiritual- 
ism," Independence, Mo., 1945, p. 144. (New York. 1870. p. 487.) 



BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER — HALLOWELL 461 

that "The Book of Mormon" supplements the Bible, since it is a history 
of God's dealings with remnants of Israel and the Saviour's ministra- 
tions among- them in the Western Hemisphere." For in America, the 
great Nephrite prophecy has been fulfilled — the second coming of 
Christ. After the Resurrection He appeared to a multitude of nearly 
3,000 people in Mexico, before a greater assembly the next day, and 
after this "he did show himself unto them oft." The occurrence of 
the legendaiy jBgure of a so-called "white god" with certain as- 
sociated attributes among the Incas, Mayas, Aztecs, and Toltecs, the 
Mormons interpret as supporting evidence for the historic appearance 
of Christ in America. 

In the Mormon view, the aborigines of the United States were the 
descendants of the Lamanites, the "bad" people of the Mormon epic. 
Unlike the Spiritualists, the Mormons had nothing they could look to 
them for ; still, a strange affinity connected them with the Indians. In 
Mormon hymnals there are songs about the red man. In the days 
before the rise of archeology or anthropology in the contemporary 
sense, "The Book of INIormon" was representative of the speculations 
that had been going on in Europe for several centuries about the 
peopling of the New World. These earlier theories had to be recon- 
ciled first of all with the account given in the Bible of man's creation 
and dispersal. What is peculiar in the Mormon case, however, is the 
fact that a particular theory of the peopling of the New World was 
incorporated as a dogma of a religious sect. This could hardly have 
occurred anywhere but in early 19th-century America. The early 
Mormons easily reconciled their theory with the Bible, but since the 
sect has survived into a period of American culture when an enor- 
mous increase in our knowledge of New World prehistory from 
archeological investigations has taken place, a further reconciliation of 
the inspired history found in "The Book of Mormon" wdth this new 
knowledge is now being sought. 

Outside the Mormon church, the consensus is that in its nondoc- 
trinal aspects "The Book of Mormon" is derived from a romance 
written but not published by Solomon Spaulding, a clergyman who 
left the church and was in business in Ohio by 1812. There he dug 
into some mounds and became interested in the origin of the extinct 
people who had erected them. The theory that they were of Jewish 
origin was not original with him, since it was maintained by many 
prominent men in this country. If Spaulding's manuscript had been 
printed in its original form as fiction, he would have anticipated those 
writers in America who were soon to exploit the Indian in the historical 
novel. Even when "The Book of Momion" was published in 1830, it 
fell precisely in the period when the Indian was assuming great prom- 



" Paul M. Hansen, "Jesus Christ Among the Ancient Americans," p. 144, Independence 
Mo. 1945. 



462 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

inence in American literature. Three of Cooper's "Leatherstocking 
Tales" liad met with acclaim by this date, and at least 39 novels pub- 
lished between 1824 and 1834 included Indian episodes. 

There was a parallel development in the drama. Barker's "Indian 
Princess" (Pocahontas), staged in 1808, had a long line of successors. 
There were at least 30 so-called Indian plays staged between 1820 
and 1840 and 20 or more between the latter date and the Civil War. 
Some of these were dramatizations of the novels of Cooper, Bird, and 
Simms. The peak in the popularity of these Indian dramas also falls 
within the period (1830-70) that has been called "the golden days of 
the American actor." Perhaps the most outstanding example is 
"Metamora, or The Last of the Wampanoags," which was in the reper- 
toire of Edwin Forrest for almost 40 years. It was played in Phila- 
delphia every year — except two — for a quarter of a century. Forrest 
had specifically advertised in 1828 for a play in which "the hero, or 
principal character, shall be an aboriginal of this country." William 
Cullen Bryant was the chairman of the committee which selected 
"Metamora" from the 14 plays submitted. It proved to be one of the 
most popular plays of the 19tli-century American theater. "Meta- 
mora" was played even after Forrest's death, and a radio version was 
broadcast in 1939. During its theatrical lifetime, more Americans 
are said to have seen "Metamora" than "Abie's Irish Rose" or "Tobacco 
Koad" in the 20th century. 

In poetry, the Indian had appeared as a subject ever since the time 
of Freneau, but there was nothing that could compare with the initial 
impact and continuing popularity of "Hiawatha." It became the 
poem of the American Indian. Before publication in 1855, there 
was an advance sale of 4,000 copies; in 5 months the sale had risen 
to 50,000 copies. It has been said that what was unique about Long- 
fellow's poem was the fact that " 'Hiawatha' was the first poem of its 
kind in America based on Indian legend rather than on Indian 
history." ^^ While true enough, it is clarifying to note that until 
1839, when Schoolcraft published his "Algic Researches," there were 
no reliable collections of Indian myths or tales on which a poet could 
draw. It was, therefore, a historical accident that Longfellow came 
to exploit Ojibwa material; he had no other choice. Paradoxically, 
Schoolcraft himself published a poem dealing with the Creek Indian 
wars 12 years before "Hiawatha" appeared. He did not know the 
Creeks at first hand, while he knew the O jib was intimately, his wife 
being of that tribe. Evidently it never occurred to him to use his 
Ojibwa myths as the basis of a narrative poem. Thus Schoolcraft 
epitomizes the force of the traditional literary approach to the use 
of Indian themes. 



"W. L. Schramm, Hiawatha and Its predecessors, Philol. Quart., vol. 11, p. 341, 1932. 



BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER — HALLOWELL 463 

Longfellow bore the same sort of relation to Schoolcraft as Cooper 
did to Heckewelder. Generally speaking, there was no inclination on 
the part of eastern novelists, dramatists, or poets who selected Indian 
themes to become acquainted with living Indians of the contemporary 
frontiers as a backgromid for their productions. Indeed, a volume of 
short stories, "Tales of the Northwest," about Indians in the Ujjper 
Mississippi region, written by one who knew them intimately, was 
ignored after its publication in 1839. William Joseph Snelling, the 
author, had insisted that "a man must live, emphatically, live with 
Indians ; share with them their lodges, their food, and their blankets, 
for years, before he can comprehend their ideas, or enter their feel- 
ings." American writers were not yet ready for this early call to 
realism. But for American readers, a novel entitled "Altowan; or 
Incidents of Life and Adventure in the Rocky Mountains," by Sir 
William Drummond Stewart, an eccentric Scot, who during the 1830's 
had spent 6 years in the West, was published in New York in 1846. 
Although the novel was undistinguished in writing and had some 
romantic trappings, in this case the author had seen a great deal of 
Indian life. What makes the book unique is that one of the leading 
characters, as pointed out by De Voto, is an Indian transvestite — a 
berdache — and this individual is depicted in highly realistic terms. 
The author pictures his behavior and dress in detail, and no doubt 
is left about what he was. "I know of no English or American novel 
of that time or for many years later that is half so frank about homo- 
sexuality," writes De Voto.^^ 

In painting and popular music there was a parallel romantic tradi- 
tion. Gleanings from historical documents or tradition were tinc- 
tured by an extremely free use of imagination. It is obvious, for 
instance, that the artist who provided the frontispiece for Mrs. Mor- 
ton's "Ouabi, or The Virtue of Nature" (1790) knew as little about 
Indians at first hand as did the author of this poem in the noble 
savage tradition. And Benjamin West's painting of one of Penn's 
treaties with the Indians, dating from about 1771, offers a direct 
parallel to the literary artist who drew on historical documents for 
his source material. 

Part of Mrs. Morton's poem was set to music by Hans Gram the 
year after its publication. This composition, the first orchestral score 
published in the United States, was entitled "The Death Song of an 
Indian Chief," although there is no evidence that the composer knew 
anything about aboriginal music. In 1799, a musical arrangement of 
"Alk'amoonok, the Death Song of the Cherokee Indians," reputedly 
based on a genuine Indian melody, was published and soon became 
very popular. It had been sung in "Tammany" (1794), the first 
American opera. An eccentric musician, Anton Philip Heinrich, 



" Bernard De Voto, "Across the Wide Missouri," p. 426. Boston. 1947. 
492520—59 31 



464 AJSTNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

who died in 1861, was the composer of the "Pocahontas Waltz" for 
piano and is said to have been the first to use Indian themes in larger 
orchestral works. The heroine of the big song hit of 1844, "The Blue 
Juniata," was an Indian girl, "Bright Alf orata." 

Actually, it is at this vernacular level that the backwash of the 
frontier is most clearly discernible in American music of the 19th 
century. This was due to the role the Indian played in the subject 
matter of folk songs. In one group of songs, the Indian appears 
"merely as an incidental personality" and the attitudes toward him 
are vague. In a second group, however, negative attitudes are sharply 
defined since many songs in this class are long narrative ballads which 
depict actual frontier conflicts. Folksongs about historic events, 
"including songs about dramatic episodes in the relationships of 
Indians and Wliite, have been sung regularly since the earliest days 
of colonization and have faithfully reflected changing relationships 
between the two culture groups at least down to the present century 
when modern techniques for the commercialization of popular songs 
may have beclouded the issue." A third category of songs reflects 
a positive attitude toward the Indian varying "from vague references 
to good Indians or Indians with heroic qualities, to songs and ballads 
exclusively about romanticized Indians, who are admired for their 
stamina and other heroic qualities." ^° An anonymous, undated ex- 
ample of America's folk painting, depicting the rescue of John Smith, 
belongs to this earlier period.^^ The same motif was subsequently as 
popular in prints as it was in fiction, drama, poetry, and music. 

However, in the midst of all this romanticizing of the Indian, a 
trend toward greater realism developed, particularly in painting. 
Here and there in colonial times there had been some realistic paintings 
of the Indians ; for example, the masterly portraits of Lenape chiefs 
painted in 1735 by Gustavus Hesselius (1682-1755) . But about 1821, 
many of the western chiefs who came to Washington on business with 
the Government sat for their portraits. A collection of these became 
the nucleus of the famous "Indian Gallery." The magnificent re- 
production of 120 of these portraits in a folio edition of 3 volumes 
(McKenny and Hall, "History of the Indian Tribes of North America, 
1836-44") gave the eastern public an opportunity to see what con- 
temporary Indians looked like. On the other hand, artists themselves 
began to go west ( Seymour, Rindisbacher, Lewis, Catlin, Miller, East- 
man, Stanley, Kane, Bodmer, Kurz) , so that greatly enriched images 
of the natives, the kind of life they led, and the grandeur of the 
country they inhabited soon became more widely known to those 
living far removed from the contemporary frontier. It was the author 

*" Austin E. Fife and Francesca Redden, The pseudo-Indian folksongs of the Anglo- 
American and French-Canadian, Journ. Amer. Folklore, vol. 57, pp. 241, 394, 1954. 

=» "American Folk Art. The Art of the Common Man in America, 1750-1900." Mus. Mod. 
Art Publ. No. 19, 1932. 



BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER — HALLOWELL 465 

of "Altowan" who induced Alfred Jacob Miller — now one of the most 
famous of these artists, whose true accomplishments have only become 
known to the public in recent years— to accompany him west in 1837. 
Catlin is particularly important, however, not only because he was 
a pioneer, but because he was a showman. Pie toured eastern cities 
in the late 1830's exhibiting his "Indian Gallery," which has been 
called the first Wild West show. It included Indian "curios," featur- 
ing pipes, and in exhibition halls he erected a real Crow tepee. Catlin 
appeared in person and, taking selected pictures as a point of departure, 
lectured to his audiences about Indian life. He would dress lay figures 
in Indian clothing and frequently had some Indians on hand to pan- 
tomime native activities. Although Catlin was not an anthropologist, 
his Indian Gallery did mediate to Americans a more realistic type of 
knowledge about the Plains tribes than had been available. After 
touring American cities, he took his show to England and the Con- 
tinent. In 1954, an exhibition of Catlin's work, sponsored by the 
United States Information Agency, was again on tour in Europe, 
while in this country Bodmer's watercolors were being exhibited. 

Even though Catlin "had been there," he had detractors, like Audu- 
bon, who challenged the accuracy of his paintings. The same thing 
had happened to Cooper and Longfellow. The romantic tradition 
in America was strong, and the application of a purely realistic stand- 
ard of judgment was, in effect, an attack upon the tradition. Cooper 
may have idealized the Indian in some respects and erred in many 
details, but he idealized the pioneer and backwoodsman too. The In- 
dian was enveloped in the romantic tradition and what is interesting 
is how long he has remained a part of it. 

Wlien the dime novel sprang into popularity in the 1860's, the 
Indians of the Cooper tradition became an integral part of this litera- 
ture. In one way or another, Indians play a role in at least 45 percent 
of the 321 stories in the original dime-novel series. "Maleska, the In- 
dian Wife of the White Hunter" (1860), the first one published by 
Beadle and Adams, actually was a reprinting of a story that had been 
serialized in 1839. "The death of the dime novel, if it ever really 
occurred, was accompanied by the birth of the nickelodeon, the motion 
picture, and the radio, which simply transferred the old stories of cow- 
boys, desperadoes, and Indians to more dynamic forms." ^^ In fact, 
as soon as the silent cinema began to flicker, the Indian of the old 
romantic tradition v/as in. There was a screen version of "Hiawatha" 
as early as 1909, the "Deerslayer" was shown in 1911, the "Last of 
the Mohicans" in 1920. And, until very recently, what Stanley Vestal 
called the "Holly wooden Indian" has persisted in that typically Ameri- 
can movie genre — the western. 



*2 James D. Hart, "The Popular Book. A History of America's Literary Taste," p. 156, 
New York. 1950. 



466 AXNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

On the other hand, there was an increasing awareness that authentic 
knowledge of the aboriginal cultures was relevant and desirable in 
the arts. Perhaps this attitude developed along with the emergence 
of a more realistic tradition in American writing. However this may 
be, I think that the publication of Edna Dean Proctor's "Song of the 
Ancient People" in 1893 represents a transitional case. While it is in 
the high romantic tradition, there is an appended commentary to 
this poem by F. H. Gushing (1857-1900), a pioneer anthropologist 
who went to the Southwest in 1879 and lived among the Zuni for 5 
years. He says he can bear witness to the poet's "strict fidelity of 
statement, and attempt to show, as one of the Ancient People them- 
selves would be glad to show, how well she has divined their spirit." 
The volume was illustrated with realistic aquatints made by Julian 
Scott in the Hopi country. No other Indian poem had ever been 
offered to the public with such an aura of authenticity about it — it was 
bound in buckskin with a design taken from Southwestern pottery on 
the cover. 

The inauguration of genuine Indian themes in American concert 
music is ordinarily attributed to Edward MacDowell, whose "Indian 
Suite" was first performed in 1896. But where did he find such 
themes ? He was not a frontier boy. He entered the Paris Conserva- 
tory at the age of 14 and did not take up residence here until he was 
27. The fact is that MacDowell exemplifies a repetition of the same 
kind of relationship to the source of his thematic material as was noted 
in the case of Cooper and Longfellow. He got them from Theodore 
Baker, the first trained musician to go into the field and study Indian 
music at first hand. Baker, a German, visited the Seneca Reservation 
and the Carlisle Indian School in the summer of 1880, offering the 
results of his analysis to Leipzig LTniversity as a doctoral dissertation. 
But he was not a composer, nor was Alice C. Fletcher, whose mono- 
graph on Omaha songs (1893) initiated the study of Indian music in 
American anthropology. However, two of the songs she collected, 
"Shupida" and the "Omaha Tribal Prayer," undoubtedly have been 
among the most widely circulated examples of authentic Indian music 
in American culture. Together with three other Indian songs, they 
appear in "Indian Lore," a pamphlet in the Merit Badge Series of the 
Boy Scouts of America. In the past 6 years, approximately 47,000 
copies of this booklet have been printed. Scouts who aspire to the 
merit badge in Indian lore must be able to "sing three Indian songs 
including the Omaha Tribal Prayer and tell something of their 
meaning." Since 1911, there have been more than 18,700 American 
boys who have won this distinction. 

Following the lead of MacDowell, other composers began to make 
increasing use of Indian themes, though only a few made direct con- 
tact with the reservation Indians. Among them were Burton, Cad- 



BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER — ^HALLOWELL 467 

man, Farwell, Jacobi, Lieurance, Arthur Nevin, Skilton, and Troyer, 
who found native music interesting to them, because as Skilton has 
said, "many devices of the ultra modern composers of the present day 
have long been employed by Indians — unusual intervals, arbitrary 
scales, changing tune, conflicting rhythm, polychoral effects, hypnotic 
monotony." " Indian songs were harmonized and arranged for per- 
formance by white musicians ; Indian themes were handled freely in 
the composition of original works, much in the same way that Long- 
fellow handled Ojibwa myths. 

In the field of operatic composition, despite the popularity of other 
compositions of Herbert and Cadman, neither the former's "Natoma" 
(1911) nor the latter's "Shanewis" (1918) became established in oper- 
atic repertoire. Some compositions based on Indian themes have re- 
ceived high acclaim in the repertoire of orchestral music, others as 
popular songs. Skilton's "Indian Dances," along with MacDowell's 
"Indian Suite," were among the 27 compositions of 12 American com- 
posers which had the greatest number of performances in the United 
States during the 7 years following World War I. Jacobi's "String 
Quartet on Indian Themes" was selected to represent American music 
at the International Festival of Contemporary Music at Zurich in 
1926. Elliott Carter's ballet "Pocahontas," presented in New York in 
1939 (and later developed into a suite for orchestra) received the 
Juilliard Publication Award the following year. Cadman, who went 
to the Omaha Reservation in 1909 with Francis LaFlesche, an Indian 
anthropologist, wrote one of his most famous songs that year, "From 
the Land of the Sky Blue Water." It vied with "The Rosary" in 
popularity. He likewise wrote two operas on Indian themes. "By 
the Waters of Minnetonka" (1921), composed by Thurlow Lieurance, 
who had visited the western reservations as early as 1905, has had a 
phenomenal success. At midcentury it appears in the Victor Album 
"Twelve Beloved American Songs" along with "The Rosary" and "A 
Perfect Day." Nor should commercialized popular songs of a lower 
order — some Indian in name only — be forgotten. Among those com- 
posed early in this century were "Navajo" ( 1903) , "Tammany" ( 1905) , 
"Red Wing" (1907), and "Hiawatha's Melody of Love" (1920), to say 
nothing of "The Indian Love Call" (1924), and "Ramona," a hit of 
1927. 

In the early years of this century, some American poets, like the 
musicians, sought out the Indians, and those of the Southwest became a 
focal point of interest. These were the same people that Edna Procter 
had written about. They had been the subject, too, of a novel, "The 
Delight Makers" (1890), by A. F. Bandelier, said by Alfred L. Kroe- 



*» Charles S. Skilton, American Indian music, Int. Cycl. Music and Musicians, p. 48. New 
York. 1939. 



468 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

ber to be "a more comprehensive and coherent view of native Pueblo 
life than any scientific volume on the southwest." 

A few American painters (Sharp, Phillips, Blumenschein) had also 
discovered the Southwest before the opening of the 20th century. 
Blumenschein's graphic commentary on the acculturation process, 
which shows two Indians mounted on merry-go-round horses, had 
appeared in Harper's Weekly in 1899. 

Among the poets who became interested, Mary Austin soon took 
the lead. She became the key figure in the use of Indian material for 
literary purposes, and her extremely positive attitude toward the 
cultures of the Indians influenced many others to seek inspiration 
in their ai't. She characterized her "Amerindian Songs" as being 
"Reexpressed from the Originals." Some of these first appeared in 
"Poetry" (1917), along with comparable interpretations by Frank 
S. Gordon, Alice Corbin Henderson, and Constance Lindsay Skinner. 
Mary Austin wrote plays and stories, too. She seems to have moved 
from a romantic primitivism to a more and more realistic handling of 
Indian themes, as exemplified by her play "The Arrow Maker," pro- 
duced on Broadway in 1911, and her "One-Smoke Stories" (1934), one 
of her last books. Nor should the fact be overlooked that four anthol- 
ogies containing translations of American Indian songs and poetry 
have appeared in this century (George W. Cronyn, "The Path of the 
Rainbow," 1918 and 1934; Nellie Barnes, "American Indian Love 
Lyrics and Other Verse," 1925; Margot Astrov, "The Winged Ser- 
pent," 1946; and A. Grove Day, "The Sky Clears," 1951). 

In the 20th century, the Indian has also reappeared in American 
plays, particularly in the work of the regional dramatists. Wliile the 
setting is frequently the historic past, the problems the native faces 
in the acculturation process are sometimes dramatized. Both "Strong- 
heart" (1905) and "Cherokee Night" (1936) are examples of this 
theme. In prose fiction, we also find that anthropologists, inspired by 
Bandelier and the stories collected in Elsie Clews Parsons' "American 
Indian Life" (1922), entered the field. "Laughing Boy," a Literary 
Guild book of 1929, by Oliver LaFarge, and "Hawk Over TVliirlpools" 
by Ruth Underbill (1940) are outstanding illustrations. In "Amer- 
ica in Fiction," the authors call attention to the fact that "now that he 
is on reservations, not a military foe, and generally not an economic 
competitor, the Indian is a subject of great interest, so much so that 
more fiction has been written about him in recent years than about 
any other ethnic group except the Negro. In many works of fiction, 
he has been given central prominence, his cultural complex has been 
detailed, and much attention has been paid to his problems of ad- 
justing himself to the dominating civilization that surrounds him." ^* 



2* Otis W. Coan and Richard G. Lillard, America in Fiction. "An Annotated List of 
Novels that Interpret Aspects of Life in the United States," 3d ed., pp. 161-162. Stanford. 
1949. 



BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER — HALLOWELL 469 

Their bibliography lists 37 novels or collections of stories published 
between 1902 and 1947. "Where once we had melodrama about the 
Indian with his bloody tomahawk," they say, "now we have clear-cut 
realism." Whatever the art form may be, what is striking is the more 
intimate acquaintance with contemporary Indians that informs the 
work of the painter, musician, poet, dramatist, or novelist who has 
drawn upon aboriginal cultural forms or used the problems of the 
Indian for his thematic material. 

Finally, it seems to me that among these more recent influences, the 
impact of the Indian on modern anthropology should not be omitted. 
The social sciences as they have developed in the United States during 
the past half-century have attained an unusual prominence in Amer- 
ican culture. Among these, anthropology in its modern form was just 
getting under way about the time the frontier closed. It was in the 
1890's that Franz Boas began to teach at Columbia University and to 
train students m fieldwork. Boas was a specialist in studies of the 
American Indian and a majority of his early students followed in his 
footsteps. Indeed, practically all the chief authorities on North 
American Indian ethnology, archeology, and linguistics have been 
American. A historical accident ? Of course. But that is the point. 
It is only recently among the younger generation that more attention 
is being devoted to peoples in the South Seas, Africa, and Asia. But 
it was the study of the Indians, and the problems that emerged from 
the investigation of the Indian as a subject, that gave American an- 
thropology a distinctive coloring as compared with British, French, 
and German anthropology. Recently an American psychologist has 
remarked that "if the word 'anthropology' were presented to a sample 
of psychologists in a word-association test I would venture 'culture' 
would probably be the most popular response, with 'Indians' a runner- 
up." 2^ The presumption, no doubt, is that these hypothetical responses 
would be those of American psychologists. 

The more detailed and reliable accounts of native Indian cultures 
that have emerged from the fieldwork of American anthropologists 
have made possible a more objective appraisal of the values inherent 
in the aboriginal modes of life. To those who look at the record, the 
Indian no longer appears as either a noble or ignoble savage. He has 
moved into a clearer focus as a human being. Like our own, his tra- 
ditional cultural background and historical situation have determined 
the nature of his experience and made him what he is. 

Viewing the panorama of our colonial and national history as a 
whole, I have referred to many diverse aspects of our culture — speech, 
economic life, food habits, clothing, transportation, medicine, religion. 



^ M. Brewster Smith, Anthropology and psychology, in John Gillin (ed.), "For a Science 
of Social Man. Convergences in Anthropology, Psychology and Sociology," p. 39. New 
York. 1954. 



470 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

the arts, and even a social science — which have been influenced by our 
relations with the Indians at different times and in differing ways. 
Some of these influences have been mediated directly, others indirectly. 
Contacts with the Indian on the frontier have by no means been the 
source of all of them. 

In summing up, we may ask : how deeply have such influences pene- 
trated our culture ? To what extent are our relations with the Indians 
one key to our differentiation as Americans, not only culturally but 
psychologically? Constance Rourke once wrote, "The Backswoods- 
man conquered the Indian, but the Indian also conquered him. He 
ravaged the land and was ravaged in turn." Phillips D. Carleton, 
concluding his comments on the captivity literature, writes : "It em- 
phasizes the fact that it was the line of fluid frontiers receding into the 
West that changed the colonists into a new people ; they conquered the 
Indian but he was the hammer that beat out a new race on the anvil 
of the continent." ^® Carl Jung, who has probably analyzed more per- 
sons of various nationalities than anyone else, thought he could discern 
an Indian component in the character structure of his American 
patients, and D. H. Lawrence asked whether a dead Indian is nought. 
"Not that the Red Indian will ever possess the broadlands of America," 
he said and then added, "But his ghost will." 

In America we faced the Indian on receding frontiers for a long 
period; but outside the frontier there was the shadow of the Indian. 
This shadow is still upon us. We still mouth words and idioms that 
reflect intimate contacts with the aborigines of our land. We still 
make use of plants originally cultivated by them. We wear derivative 
forms of the footgear they wore. We have collected objects made by 
them in our homes and in our museums. Our artists have found in- 
spiration in their artistic modes of expression. We constantly see 
the Indian sweep past our eyes on the movie screen. He persists in 
our historical novels and westerns. In 1954, "The Leatherstocking 
Saga" reappeared, compressed into one handsome volume. We Ameri- 
cans have seen the Indian come and go on the commonest national coins 
we have fingered. The first Bible to be printed in colonial America was 
in the Indian language, John Eliot's translation of the Old and New 
Testament into an Algonkian tongue. Over the generations thousands 
of American men have belonged to the more-than-a-century-old Im- 
proved Order of Red Men. American anthropologists have labored 
most industriously to provide more and more authentic information 
about aboriginal modes of life and the influence of American culture 
on the Indian. The Indian has never been rejected from the American 
consciousness. Perhaps his shadow upon us is even disappearing — he 
has become a part of us : in the "Dictionary of American Biography" 



» PhUllps D. Carleton, The Indian captiTlty, Amer. Ut, No. 15, p. 180, 1943. 



BACKWASH OF THE FRONTIER — HALLOWELL 471 

will be found side by side with other famous Americans, Pontiac and 
Tecumseh, Blackhawk and Osceola. In 1931 a brief popular biog- 
raphy of Osceola — only a few pages in length — was printed at Palm 
Beach ; it was entitled "Osceola the Seminole. Florida's Most Distin- 
guished Historical Character !" And it is said that more statues have 
been erected of Sacajawea than of any other American woman. 

Now that the frontier has passed, our children discover the Indian 
in the comic books, as well as in the library. They are familiar with 
Cooper's tales in "Classics Illustrated." Indeed, there appears to have 
been a marked increase in number, variety, and quality of children's 
books about Indians published in the last two or more decades. There 
are biographies of Indians famous in our history as well as historical 
romances. The stories of famous white captives have been retold ; there 
are excellent books on Indian crafts and simplified but accurate ac- 
counts of tribal life, besides well-written stories which center around 
Indian children as major characters. Nevertheless, the average Amer- 
ican is by no means aware of all the ramifications of Indian influence 
upon our culture. Perhaps the Red Indian ghost D. H. Lawrence saw 
here and what Jung discerned in the character of his patients provide 
clues to an aspect of the American ethos that invites deeper scrutiny in 
the future. 

SELECTED READINGS 

Aebaugh, G. B. 

1932. Revelation in Mormonism, its character and changing forms. Chicago. 
Chamberlain, Alexander F. 

1905. The contribution of the American Indian to civilization. Proc. Amer. 
Antiq. Soc, n.s., vol. 16, pp. 91-126. 
Clark, Barrett H. (editor). 

1943. Favorite American plays of the nineteenth century. Princeton, N.J. 
De Voto, Bernard. 

1947. Across the wide Missouri. Illustrated with paintings by Alfred Jacob 
Miller, Charles Bodmer, and George Catlin. Boston. 
Fairchold, Hoxie N. 

1928. The Noble Savage, a study in romantic naturalism. New York. 
Hallowell, a. Irving. 

1955. Culture and experience. Philadelphia. 

1957. The impact of the American Indian on American culture. Amer. 
Anthrop., vol. 59, No. 2, pp. 201-217. 
Howard, John T. 

1946. Our American music; three hundred years of it. 3d ed., rev. New 
York. 
Johannsen, Albert. 

1950. The House of Beadle and Adams and its dime and nickel novels. The 
story of a vanished literature. Norman, Okla. 
Jung, Carl G. 

1928. Contributions to analytical psychology. New York. 
Keiseb, Albert. 

1933. The Indian in American literature. New York. 



472 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Laweence, D. H. 

1923. Studies in classic American literature. New York. 
Lawton, George. 

1932. The drama of life after death; a study of the spiritualist religion. 
New York. 
Mencken, Henry L. 

1936. The American language. 4th rev. ed. New York. 
Orians, G. H. 

1935. The cult of the vanishing American : A century view, 1834-1934. Bull. 

Univ. Toledo (Ohio), November. 
Pearce, Rot H. 

1953. The savages of America. A study of the Indian and the idea of 

civilization. Baltimore. 
Peckham, Howard H. 

1954. Captured by Indians; true tales of pioneer survivors. New Bruns- 

wick, N.J. 
PiCKARD, Madge E., and Btjlet, R. Carlyle. 

1946. The Midwest pioneer, his ills, cures and doctors. New York. 
QuiNN, Arthur H. 

1943. A history of the American drama from the beginning to the Civil War. 
2d ed. New York. 
RouRKE, Constance. 

1931. American humor ; a study of the national character. New York. 
1942. The roots of American culture and other essays. New York. 
Shook, C. A. 

1910. Cumorah revisited ; or "The Book of Mormon" and the claims of the 
Mormons reexamined from the viewpoint of American archaeology 
and ethnology. Cincinnati. 
Snelling, W. Joseph. 

1936. William Joseph Snelling's Tales of the Northwest, with an introduc- 

tion by John T. Flanagan. Minneapolis. 
Spaeth, Sigmund. 

1948. A history of popular music in America. New York. 
Sper, Felix. 

1948. From native roots: A panorama of our regional drama. Caldwell, 
Idaho. 
Stewart, George R. 

1945. Names on the land. New York. 

1954. American ways of life. Garden City, N.Y. 
Vestal, Stanley. 

1936. The Hollywooden Indian. Southwest Rev., No. 21. 
Wroth, Lawrence C. 

1928. The Indian treaty as literature. Yale Rev., vol. 17, pp. 749-766. 



The Restored Shanidar I Skull ' 



By T. D. Stewart 

Curator of Physical Anthropology 
Smithsonian Institution 



[With 13 plates] 



The disco\tery of the first adult skeleton in the Mousterian layer 
of Shanidar cave, northern Iraq, was reported in the press in the 
spring of 1957.^ Since then Dr. Kalph Solecki, leader of the expedi- 
tion excavating the cave, has published more details of the find in 
Smner (1957b) and in the Scientific American (1957a). Now it is 
possible to follow up these reports in a remarkably short time with 
illustrations and a brief description of the restored skull. A fuller 
report on the skull and on certain postcranial parts is in course of 
preparation. 

The work of reconstruction, which the writer carried out in the 
Iraq Museum during the months of October through December 1957, 
was made possible by the farsighted cooperation and generosity of 
the American Philosophical Society in Philadelphia, the Directorate 
General of Antiquities in Baghdad, and the Smithsonian Institution 
in Washington. 

This account has had to be prepared at the termination of the 
laboratory work and before comparative studies could be undertaken. 
For this reason only very tentative statements regarding the biologi- 
cal significance of the specimen will be made. Mainly I will tell what 
has been accomplished in the way of skull reconstruction and point 
out certain features thereof which affect interpretations. I am in- 
debted to Antran Evan, photographer of the Iraq Museum, for the 
excellent photographs here reproduced. In makmg the drawings of 
the skull I did not strive for extreme accuracy. My intention was 
merely to supply an interpretation of the photographs. In viewing 



1 Reprinted, witli the addition of footnotes and references, by permission from Sumer, 
vol. 14. Nos. 1 and 2, pp. 90-95, 1958. 

" To avoid confusion in the future it should be noted that although an infant was found 
in 1953, only the three adults found in 1957 as yet bear distinguishing number!?. I have 
now decided that Shanidar I is a male around 40 years of age (see Stewart, 1959). 

473 



474 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

them thus the reader should remember that the camera and stereo- 
graph record the object from slightly different viewpoints. 

To students of human paleontology the traditional aspects of the 
skull here shown will speak for themselves. Such significant details 
as the heavy brow ridges, the large flat face, the receding chin, the 
low forehead, the small mastoids (but large digastric fossae), etc., 
recall the forms of ancient man which are usually designated "Nean- 
derthal." This is a term that no longer has an exact morphological 
meaning. In an effort at more exactitude anthropologists are now 
using qualifying words, such as "progressive" and "conservative" or 
"classical," meaning closer to modern man and farther from modern 
man, respectively. Even this device is not wholly satisfactory. For 
this reason I am going to risk being specific and state that at the 
moment I am inclined to rank the Shanidar skull with the somewhat 
earlier Mousterian population of Mount Carmel in Palestine, as de- 
scribed by McCown and Keith in 1939. Within this highly variable 
population I would rank Shanidar closer to Tabun than to Skhul.' 
Be this as it may, the really significant thing is that an individual 
with such primitive features persisted in the mountains of Iraq to 
the end of the Mousterian cultural period; that is, to a time which 
Solecki estimates to be only about 45,000 years ago.* 

In a symposium on population genetics held in Cold Spring Harbor, 
N.Y., in 1950 I (1951) expressed skepticism that the variety of types 
encountered at Mount Carmel was due to hybridization between mod- 
ern and Neanderthaloid types, an idea then widely held. The primi- 
tiveness of Shanidar I and the late occurrence of this type strengthen 
my skepticism. I still feel that all these specimens could be variants 
of a local and durable population. In this connection it is interesting 
to recall Senyiirek's conclusion, recently (1957) published in Anatolia, 
that the infant recovered earlier in the Mousterian layer at Shanidar 
is a distinct subspecies deserving the name Homo sapiens shanidar ensis. 

Such generalizations are interesting and are certain to be debated 
in anthropological circles for some time, but ultimately their validity 
depends upon the quality of the evidence. It is of primary importance, 
therefore, to raise immediately the question : How accurately has the 
Shanidar skull been reconstructed ? In general, my answer must be : 
Not perfectly, but probably close enough for all practical purposes. 
Actually, the skull is far less complete than a first glance at the pic- 
tures reveals; also, it shows signs of injuries in life and has undergone 



• In making this statement I was Influenced by the appearance of the posterior part 
of the skull. The face (including the supraorbital ridges) is every bit as primitive as In 
the "classical" Neanderthals. Yet, when attention is directed to the back of the skull, 
one is inclined to qualify the designation "classical." 

* This figure takes Into account Coon's report (1957, pp. 306-307) of a C-^t. date of 43,000 
years for the upper part of the Mousterian layer in the Jerf Ajila cave in Syria. Analyses 
of the Shanidar carbon samples are in process. 



THE RESTORED SHANIDAR I SKULL — STEWART 475 

some postmortem warping. The extent to which the latter factor has 
influenced the shape is best seen as an enlargement of the left side in 
the views of the top and base. This asymmetry results from certain 
parts on the left side failing to meet and leaving gaps. Except in the 
left zygomatic arch, the gaps are no longer apparent, because they have 
been filled in to give more rigidity to the specimen. 

Not only are there gaps on the left side but there are large areas on 
this side where the bone has been lost entirely or, if present, cannot 
be accurately placed. One such area in the posterior left parietal has 
been left open intentionally so that the inside of the skull can be in- 
spected. Anyone looking through this hole in the actual specimen 
sees that even more of the inside surface has had to be restored. The 
explanation is that ancient cranial bone tends to split through the 
diploe, or porous middle layer, and thereupon the inner table crum- 
bles. Thus I found some sections of the vault to consist only of outer 
table, 1 to 2 mm. thick. Such sections had to be reinforced on the endo- 
cranial side. 

In reinforcing weakened bone and in filling in areas where the bone 
was missing I used a commercial "crack filler" (trade name: Savo- 
gran). This substance comes in the form of a powder and is mixed 
with water to the desired consistency. It has the advantage of being 
readily moulded into the prescribed shape, of setting fairly rapidly, of 
not shrinking, of becoming quite hard, and of turning a light brown 
color to give a nice contrast with the stained bone. Also, it is not 
affected by the ordinary laboratory chemicals and therefore can be 
varnished for protection against moisture. Where deemed desirable, 
reinforcing wires have been embedded in the filler. I mention all this 
just in case it should be necessary in the future to remove or restore 
the filled-in areas of this specimen. 

In contrast to the very incomplete left side, the right side is essen- 
tially complete, except superiorly. Therefore, it was natural at the 
outset of reconstruction to assemble the right side from the many pieces 
into which it had been broken. By making the joints between these 
pieces fit tight, the original form of the skull, or what was assumed to 
be the original form, emerged. Necessarily, the restored areas, espe- 
cially of the left side, largely depend on the right side. If there are 
inaccuracies in the joining of the component parts of the right side, or 
if warping has affected the right side, the gaps on the left side are 
probably the result. Owing to the fragility of the bone, the refitting 
of joints had to be kept to a minimum. 

The top of the skull presented a special problem. The whole of this 
area from the middle of the frontal bone to the lambdoid suture (be- 
tween the occipital and parietal bones) depends for its shape and 
elevation on one large fragment hinged at a narrow joint on the right 
side anteriorly. The word "hinge" graphically describes this type of 



476 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

joint. Since there is contact only tlirougli the outer table of bone, all 
of the piece which includes most of the sagittal suture, and hence the 
vertex of the vault, could be raised or lowered without revealing the 
correct position. The only solution to this problem was to position 
this piece of bone arbitrarily so as to get a symmetrical appearance 
relative to the median plane. I believe that I may have placed this 
piece a little higher than it was originally. If this is true, it is due to 
the warping of the whole neurocranium already referred to. In justi- 
fication of the position adopted I can only say that all other arrange- 
ments yielded outlines more asymmetrical than the present one. 
Nevertheless, cranial height cannot be seriously affected. 

I realize, of course, that intact skulls are never wholly symmetri- 
cal. This is one reason for letting the joined fragments determine 
the over-all form. However, in assembling a fragmentary skull, as 
in the present instance, one has to assume original symmetry. Wlien, 
in spite of this assumption, gaps develop, it is reasonable to attribute 
them to postmortem warping. Considering the fact that a rock 
rested on this skull and the skull was recovered from a depth of 4.34 
meters in the cave deposits, some warping should be expected. Ad- 
vanced suture closure may have helped the skull sustain the pressures 
until the warping was fixed in the bone. 

Besides being warped and thus rendered asymmetrical postmortem, 
the Shanidar skull shows signs of having been asymmetrical antemor- 
tem. The signs are in the form of scars and indicate that this in- 
dividual suffered injuries about the face and forehead. The frontal 
scars are simply roughenings and depressions of the surface of the 
bone, mainly on the right side; they did not alter appreciably the 
outlmes of the vault. On the other hand, the old healed injury to 
the left side of the face altered the shape of the orbit, the supraor- 
bital ridge and the malar bone. The left orbit is compressed from 
the side and its outer border is sharper than the corresponding one 
on the right. The left supraorbital ridge, unlike the right, is divided 
into two parts by an mmatural depression (scar). The left malar 
bone, in addition to involvement of the part forming the lateral wall 
of the orbit, is flattened so that the zygomatic arch presents a decided 
contrast in shape to its counterpart of the right. The location of 
the scars on the forepart of the head suggests injuries received in 
combat. 

Interesting as these scars are, inasmuch as they seem to reflect oc- 
cupational hazards, they were a nuisance in reconstructing the incom- 
plete left side of the face. It is easy, of course, in normal specimens 
to make one side of the face the mirror image of the other. But in 
abnormal specimens the eye alone is the judge of correctness of resto- 
ration. In the present instance three unconnected facial fragments 
(one abnormal) had to be oriented largely by eye. At the same time 



THE RESTORED SHAKIDAR I SKULL — STEWART 477 

the abnormal malar portion had to be related to the left temporal 
bone, which in turn had very meager connections with the base and 
occipital bone. As each fragment was placed in position, it was 
anchored by wires cemented to it. When the relationships appeared 
to be correct, the missing parts were filled in with modeling clay. If 
at this stage the eye detected malpositioning, changes were made. 
Ultimately the clay was replaced with "crack filler" and all support- 
ing wires hidden from view. 

This brief account of the procedures used in reconstructing this 
ancient skull has not followed the true sequence of events. Actually, 
the lower jaw was assembled first, then the right side of the neuro- 
cranium (plus the anterior part of the frontal bone) and the right 
side of the face separately. Thereupon the lower jaw was mounted 
in its natural position on a piece of plate glass so that it could be 
turned about easily. The right side of the face was then placed so 
that the teeth of the right side were in natural occlusion. The teeth 
were cemented together (temporarily) in this position. Next the 
right side of the neurocranium (with attached frontal bone) was 
brought into position. In this process attention was given to the 
f rontomalar suture, the zygomaticotemporal suture and the temporo- 
mandibular joint. Unfortunately, there was no contact in the naso- 
frontal region, so I had to judge the relationships of the supraorbital 
ridges to the jaws, etc., by eye. After various trials, the f rontomalar 
suture appeared to be the connection of prime importance. From here 
on the midplane of the face and neurocranium was clearly established 
and could be maintained in the vertical position. Subsequently, the 
left side of the face, the left side of the neurocranium, the base, ver- 
tex, and occiput were adjusted and added in that order. 

Since by far the most difficult part of the whole operation centered 
about the placement of the left temporal bone, it is desirable to in- 
clude a few words about how this was done. The first step was to 
bring the temporal bone and the left side of the base into position. 
This was a delicate procedure, because this part of the base was dis- 
placed downward. Also, the temporal had lost most of the petrous 
portion, but was nearly complete externally. Thus the mandibular 
condyle had to be relied on to orient the glenoid fossa and make it 
correspond in position with the one on the right. However, in 
addition at least three other parts had to be considered : (1) A piece 
of occipital squama (including the left side of the foramen magnum) 
with a tenuous connection to the temporal; (2) the left side of the 
basiccipital with attached left occipital condyle; and (3) a small 
section of base connecting the temporal and basioccipital anteriorly. 
In fitting all these together the objective was to maintain the position 
of the left temporomandibular joint and to obtain a symmetrical 
foramen magnum. The maneuvering of these fragments would have 



478 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

been greatly simplified if there had been a top to the vault so that 
the whole skull could have been inverted. Under the circumstances 
it seemed best to hold to the original positioning of the total assem- 
blage, and only when the pieces were firmly fixed by wires to turn the 
skull over (supported by the hands) for inspection. Needless to say, 
the stated objective was not reached on the fii-st trial. Indeed, it took a 
couple of days to get every tiling here satisfactorily arranged ; that is, 
satisfactory only if the gaps already mentioned are disregarded. 

One more point should be mentioned in connection with the last 
phase of reconstruction, namely, the placement of the occiput. Early 
in the work I discovered that a large central piece of occipital bone 
had what seemed to be definite, if slight, connections on both sides, 
but no other connections. Then, in the course of trying out various 
arrangements the connection on the right was damaged. Also, a 
gap developed in this region and it was no longer possible to connect 
the central occipital fragment on both sides. I decided finally to use 
the connection with the right side, because this side is more com- 
plete, but I remain unhappy that I could not confirm the connection. 
Possibly this part of the occiput should be shifted more to the left. 

From this description of the problems encountered during the course 
of reconstructing the skull the reader will understand why the original 
form has not been entirely recovered. Yet I am fairly certain that the 
skull, as restored, looks very much like it did before it was damaged. 
The parts could not be assembled very differently without yielding a 
bizarre appearance. I am inclined to believe that I achieved a com- 
promise between the original form and the distorted form caused by 
earth pressure. 

Necessarily the deficiencies of the skull have been emphasized in the 
foregoing account. To offset this I will now review some of the assets. 
In spite of what has been said, the skull can be considered essentially 
complete, since the parts recovered are so distributed that they permit 
the missing parts to be interpolated from them. Moreover, all im- 
portant landmarks, with the possible exception of lambda, are present. 
The location of lambda is rendered uncertain because of suture closure, 
the possible presence of a small "Inca" bone, and the loss of critical 
bone. Very important is the evidently correct placement of the fora- 
men magnum and its useful landmark basion at the anterior margin. 
Indeed, the whole base, delicate though the parts are, is almost com- 
plete. The same can be said with considerable confidence of the face ; 
the details of the face could not have been very different from those of 
the face as restored. It is noteworthy that even the zygomatic arches 
are complete. And finally, all the teeth were present in life and are 
now in place, except only the lower central incisors, the absence of 
which was noted at excavation. Such assets (and more could be 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Stewart 



PLATE 1 




1. Superior view of mandible. Note flattening of left glenoid process and wear of lower 

teeth. 




2. Inferior view of mandible. Note tubercle on lateral side of right glenoid process (the 
one on the left does not show as clearly), and the sculpturing in the region of the symphysis. 



Smithsonian Report, 1 958.— Stewart 



PLATE 2 





Front view. Note, among other things, the deformity of the left malar bone, the scar in 
the middle of the left supraorbital ridge, and the abscess cavities at the apices of some 
of the front teeth. This and subsequent views of the skull have been taken in the Frank- 
fort position. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Stewart 



PLATE 3 




Front view. This and subsequent stereographic drawings were made with the skull in the 
Frankfort position. Stippling indicates areas of missing bone replaced with iiller (except 
as noted in plate 11); heavy parallel lines, areas of unreplaced missing bone or natural 
openings into the interior of the skull; fine parallel lines, broken edges of bone. 



Smithsonian Report. 1 958. — Stewart 



PLATE 4 




View of right side. The most complete portion of tlie skull is here shown. Note the 
flatness of the face in the infraorbital region, the lack of chin, the ear exostoses, and the 
relatively small mastoid process. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Stewart 



PLATE 5 




View of right side. (The position of the nasal floor has been added to this drawing since 

the original publication.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1 958. —Stewart 



Plate 6 




View of the left side. The many missing parts on this side are apparent. The opening 
was left for inspection of the interior. The gap in the zygomatic arch is probably one of 
the results of postmortem warping. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Stewart 



Plate 7 




View of left side. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Stewart 



Plate 





Top view. The large piece of bone forming tlie center of the vault has only a short hinge 
type of connection with the right side. Note the deformity of the left supraorbital 
ridge. The cross marks the position of bregma, where the sagittal suture meets the 
coronal suture. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Stewart 



Plate 9 




Top view. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Stewart 



Plate 10 





Back view. The upper part of the occiput has a small and somewhat uncertain connection 
with the right side. On the left of the occiput is a gap attributed to postmortem warping. 
Note the large digastric fossa behind each mastoid. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Stewart 



PLATE n 




Back view. Ver\- fine stippling represents interior of nasal cavit}' and adjacent antra. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Stewart 



PLATE 12 





View of base. Note the asymmetry of the zygomatic arclies, the wear of the upper teeth, 
the flattening of the left glenoid fossa, and the relatively large foramen magnum. 



Smithsonian Report. 1^58. Stewart 



Plate 13 




\ it'vv of base 



THE RESTORED SHANIDAR I SKULL — STEWART 479 

enumerated) make the Shanidar I skull a most valuable addition to 
the list of examples of ancient man. 

There remains to point out a few morphological details which the 
eye does not detect immediately, or which are not visible, in the pic- 
tures. I direct attention first to the flatness of the face in the infra- 
orbital region. The lack of a fossa in this place — so common in mod- 
ern man — together with the elongation of this portion of the face, gives 
an impression of unusual massiveness. A correspondingly large an- 
trum fills the inside of this part of the face from the orbit to the roots 
of the teeth. Also, curiously, the floor of the nasal aperture does not 
go straight back as in modem man, but slopes down rapidly and levels 
off more than 1 cm. below the bottom of the aperture (see pi. 5) . Note, 
too, that there are numerous little foramina in the facial bones, es- 
pecially about the orbits. 

Next, I would point out the wear of the teeth. In the molar areas 
this wear has eliminated much of the enamel and has created a flat 
occlusal surface. More peculiar is the wear of the anterior teeth, the 
incisors and canines particularly, which consists not only in the loss 
of all the enamel, but in more extreme wear anteriorly and posteriorly 
than in the center and on the sides. Thus the acclusal surface of each 
of these teeth is smoothly curved in the anterior-posterior axis with 
the convexity of the curve meeting that of the opposed tooth. Wear 
of this type likely was associated with the habitual holding of objects 
between the front teeth rather than with ordinary chewing of food." 
I was much impressed also by the robustness of the lower lateral inci- 
sors, which in modern man often are quite diminutive. The missing 
central incisors may have been even larger. 

In this connection it is noteworthy that the lower jaw has been well 
sculptured by attaching muscles. This is particularly true of the 
underside of the symphysis where there are well-defined depressions 
for the origins of the genioglossus, geniohyoid, and digastric muscles. 
The large and asymmetrical ascending rami are also interesting. In 
reconstructing the tips of the coronoid processes I may not have ex- 
tended them enough. Both glenoid processes have lateral tubercles 
and the articular surface of the left process is abnormally flattened. 
It is not clear to me whether this alteration is associated with tooth 
wear or with the facial injuries described above. On the lingual side 
of the ascending rami the mylohyoid canals have remained open. 

Finally, I would direct attention to the auditory meatus, which 
have their circular outlines altered by exostoses. On each side the 
lumen is almost occluded by these bony growths. So far as I am aware 



« This can be further explained now by the fact that Shanidar I had no right hand 
and therefore used the front teeth for holding objects (see Stewart, 1959). 
492520—59 32 



480 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

now, ear exostoses have not been found before in ancient man.^ In 
modern man the incidence of this abnormality is quite variable. It is 
not yet clear what causes them. 

Many other details remain to be described, but for the most part 
they need to be evaluated in terms of comparative data. At least these 
initial comments will serve to make the pictures more intelligible and 
thus give a broad idea of the importance of the specimen. It should 
be remembered, however, that physical type is incompletely revealed 
by even the best description of the skull alone. Wlien I am able to 
add more to the description of the skull and to present the evidence 
from the rest of the skeleton, the evolutionary position of the first 
Mousterian adult from Shanidar will become clearer. 

REFERENCES 
BOULE, Marcellin. 

1911-13. L'homme fossile de La Cbapelle-aux-Saints. Ann. Pal^ont., Paris, 
vol. 6, pp. 111-171 ; vol. 7, pp. 21-192 ; vol. 8, pp. 1-70 ; pis. 1-19. 
Coon, Carleton S. 

1957. The seven caves : Archeological exploration in the Middle East. 338 
pp. New York. 
Hrdlicka, Ales. 

1935. Ear exostoses. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 93, No. 6, 100 pp. 
McCowN, Theodore D., and Keith, Sir Arthur. 

1939. The stone age of Mount Carniel. The fossil human remains from the 
Levalloiso-Mousterian, vol. 2, xxiv + 390 pp., pis. 1-28. Oxford. 
Sentxjrek, Muzaffer. 

1957a. The skeleton of the fossil infant found in Shanidar Cave, northern 
Iraq. Preliminary report. Anatolia, Rev. Ann. Inst. Arched., 
Univ. Ankara, vol. 2, pp. 49-55. 
1957b. A further note on the palaeolithic Shanidar infant. Anatolia, Rev. 
Ann. Inst. Archeol., Univ. Ankara, vol. 2, pp. 111-120. 
SoLECKi, Ralph S. 

1957a. Shanidar Cave. Sci. Amer., vol. 197. No. 5, pp. 5S-64. 
1957b. Two Neanderthal skeletons from Shanidar Cave. Sumer, vol. 13, 
Nos. 1 and 2, pp. 59-60. 
Stewart, T. D. 

1951. The problems of earliest claimed representatives of Homo sapiens. 

Cold Spring Harbor Symp. Quant. Biol., vol. 15, pp. 97-107. 
1959. Restoration and study of the Shanidar I Neanderthal skeleton in 
Baghdad, Iraq. Yearbook Amer. Philos. Soc. for 1958, pp. 274-278. 



" I have learned since that Shanidar I is not unique In this regard. In describing the 
ear openings of La Chapelle-aux-Saints, Boule (1913, p. 44) says, "Ces orifices pr^sentent 
quelques exostoses. L'orifice gauche est r6tr6ci vers son milieu par des productions osseuses 
qui lul donnent une forme en sablier." Apparently HrdliCka failed to observe this for he 
says (1935, p. 79) : "It is not known, and will probably never be determined, when in the 
existence of man the abnormality of ear exostoses made its first appearance. No case of 
the growths has as yet been reported in early (geologically ancient) man, and none even 
from the Neolithic period, though that does not necessarily mean that they were absent." 



Acculturation in the Guajira 



By Raymond E. Crist 

Research Professor of Geography 
University of Florida 



[With 8 plates] 

In a previous paper ("The Land and People of the Guajira Penin- 
sula," Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Institution, 1957, pp. 339-355) the au- 
thor discussed the physical setting and some significant features of the 
cultural geography of the Guajira Peninsula. It is the purpose of this 
paper to present the results of a study of the process whereby those of 
Guajiro culture accept or reject the cultural values of modern Vene- 
zuela. For this study, intensive, on-the-spot investigations were made 
in La Gloria, a tiny Guajiro settlement 100 kilometers north of 
Maracaibo. 

CULTURAL AND HISTORICAL HIGHLIGHTS 

It is a matter of historical record that the rich and extensive Indian 
cultures of Mexico and of Peru collapsed like the proverbial house of 
cards under the impact of a mere handful of Spanish Conquistadores. 
In striking contrast, the Indians of the desertic, isolated, and inhos- 
pitable Guajira Peninsula — a kind of dead end of Nature — who were 
a much less numerous and more primitive group, living by hunting 
and fishing, with perhaps occasional raids on the weaker or less war- 
like neighbors within their range, were able not only to survive but to 
enrich their culture and by those tokens increase their numbers. They 
adopted into their scheme the domestic animals introduced by the 
Spaniards and created a pastoral society that has persisted over the 
centuries, despite unfavorable conditions, down to the present day. 

The Guajiro social organization of the present time includes an 
assortment of elements. Polygamy flourishes along with matriliny, 



1 The field and library work on which this paper is based was made possible by a grant 
of the Creole Petroleum Corp. Various departments of the organization cooperated in 
every way to further the undertaking. Thanks are due the ministries of the Venezuelan 
and Colombian Governments that helped to facilitate fieldwork involving movement back 
and forth across the frontier ; also Prof. Lorenzo Monroy and B. J. Lamb, who were of 
assistance at every step throughout the author's stay in Venezuela. To Drs. Woodfln L. 
Butte and Guillermo Zuloaga, directors of the Creole Petroleum Corp., the writer is es- 
pecially grateful. 

481 



482 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

for the bride price is a part of the property of the clan of the mother, 
and by the same token a kind of economic security for the children to 
be born of the union. Perhaps greater male authority was first super- 
imposed upon the original matrilineal structure with the adoption of 
a pastoral economy, in order to achieve more efficient handling of herds 
of livestock ; at the same time membership in the maternal clan was 
preserved as security against protracted droughts when part or all of 
the stock could be accommodated at the waterhole of some distant 
clansman. 

Once the pastoral way of life was established it was powerfully 
reinforced by tlie cultural factors of bride purchase and polygamy, 
for the payment of a groom for his bride is traditionally made in 
cattle. Although cash — preferably in bolivars — is becoming more 
and more important in many transactions of life, cattle are still the 
basis of wealth for most Guajiros, and the families of both bride 
and groom are happier if the bride price is paid in cattle. Until 
this concept has changed it will be difficult to do much about over- 
grazing in vast sectors of the Peninsula. Overgrazing sets in mo- 
tion a chain reaction, for it spells an ultimate decrease in the carry- 
ing capacity of the land for livestock, and consequently for those 
whose livelihood depends on their herds, and thus the end result 
often is migration from the Peninsula of both human beings and 
their animals. Such migrants often find it more to their liking 
to enter gradually the area of Latin culture, and are therefore happy 
to settle in a place like La Gloria where the process of acculturation 
is operative at degrees of speed that can be somewhat controlled by 
the principals. Observations made in the settlement of La Gloria 
show that not only in its matrilineal structure, but in many other 
important aspects as well, the Guajiro social organization continues 
to be receptive to cultural influences from outside. Conclusions 
reached in the study of acculturation of the Guajiros might be valid 
for investigators of cultures and subcultures elsewhere. 

La Gloria is the last — or the first — outpost of the Guajira, a tiny 
settlement on the fringe of the great desert. It is here in La Gloria 
that the process of acculturation can be most clearly observed, for 
those who live here look one way to the Guajira desert and the 
other to the asphalt highway that leads to "civilization," Geograph- 
ically and culturally they front both cultures. La Gloria lies 100 
kilometers north of Maracaibo, only 3 kilometers beyond the end of 
the macadam road that goes from Maracaibo to Paraguaipoa, which 
is a regional center and the site of the big Monday Guajiro market. 
It is a mere caserio, a diminutive group of houses set among the 
white dunes that have been formed by sand blown inland by the ever- 
active trade winds from the beach of the Gulf of Maracaibo as much 
as 4 or 5 kilometers. 



ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA — CRIST 483 

Beyond the paved road that stops at Paraguaipoa one enters a des- 
ert plain that stretches as far as the eye can see. It has no established 
roads, and travel is accomplished on foot, on horse or donkey 
back, or by jeep or truck. Scattered over its remote reaches are 
the Guajiro Indians, living in widely isolated houses, or in caserios, 
groups of a few houses, perhaps only two or three, or moving from 
place to place, in temporary camps; ceaselessly leading their ani- 
mals in search of pasture over the cactus-studded plains, or to far, 
infrequent waterholes, or taking them to market; trekking long miles 
and many days' journey to small exchange posts or to the larger, more 
distant market towns; traveling often with their women and chil- 
dren, their flocks, and all their meager possessions. 

The Guajiro, it should always be kept in mind, has for centuries 
been a nomad or seminomad. Before the coming of the Spaniards, in 
the words of Juan de Castellanos : 

Es solo su sustento y su cosecha lo que les puede dar el arco y flecha. (Their 
only food supply and harvest is what their bows and arrows win.) 

Naturally Indians living in a hunting and gathering stage of economy 
were not sedentary ; they were forced to range for food over a wide 
area. By 1551 — within a half century after the arrival of the Span- 
iards — they had begun to raise cattle, and especially sheep and goats, 
and had entered on the seminomadic way of life that characterizes a 
large part of the population to the present day. 

The Guajira Peninsula was never actually subdued by the Con- 
quistadores. Although the Spaniards made many halfhearted at- 
tempts to conquer the Guajira by force, the fact is that the Peninsula 
was simply not rich enough m gold or precious stones to make its 
conquest worth an all-out effort. But another reason — perhaps the 
most important one — why the Guajira Peninsula was not conquered 
by the Spaniards was the incessant guerrilla warfare waged by the 
Guajiros against any outsiders, with all the ferocity of the old Irish 
clans against the English. The cohesive strength of the various clans, 
or castas, was amazing. The motto of the Guajiros was : 

Suwarajen arijuna, sainjara arijuna. (White man did it, white man will pay 
for it.) 

It is a matter of course that for these people one of the first steps in 
the process of acculturation is to become adjusted to living together, 
perhaps first in a caseHo, such as La Gloria, later on in a village or 
urban agglomeration. For a basic cultural fact of Latin American 
life is the village, with its own patron saint who is the protector — a 
kind of godfather — of the village and of its individual members. The 
"village" has somewhat the meaning of the New England township, 
and it may include a number of small settlements, caserios, rancherias, 
placitas, etc., the name depending on the country. The nomadic 



484 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Guajiro finds it more congenial first to settle in a caserio such as La 
Gloria, which forms an intermediate step between life in the country 
and life in a village such as Paraguaipoa or in a city such as Maracaibo. 
La Gloria is neither an organized village nor just a group of houses 
dispersed at random. Except for the store of the Carvajals, the only 
urban function performed by the settlement is that its members visit 
back and forth to exchange gossip and to perform household tasks 
together. The houses generally are from a hundred yards to a half 
mile apart ; occasionally two are set close together. In only a single 
instance is there a large cluster of houses (pi. 3, fig. 1) in which lives the 
extended family of the Carvajals (who will be discussed in detail 
later ) , together with their servants. In their compound the family also 
operates a store in which basic food staples may be purchased and in 
which produce from the interior may be sold or bartered. Here the 
transient Guajiro, after his long trek from the interior, is sympathet- 
ically received by people who understand his problems as well as his 
language. It might be weeks or months before he would have the 
moral strength to enter any of the (to him) imposing edifices in Para- 
guaipoa, full of impersonal strangers speaking only Spanish. 

MYTHS, MATRILINY, AND MIXED MARRIAGES 

The matrilineal character of Guajiro culture meets us at once in the 
myths of the Guajiros about the origin of man and of the social order. 
In a remote epoch, goes the legend, the goddess of the Guajira married 
Mensh, Time, and had several daughters, one of whom married Para, 
god of the sea. Of this marriage were born a son and a daughter, 
Juyap, or Winter (i.e., the rainy season), and Igua, or Spring. 
Igua married the god of the winds, Jepirech, and from this union 
sprang all the Guajiros.^ In this myth are represented the natural 
elements that are of importance to the Guajira: the actual rain, with- 
out which life is impossible, and the northeast trade winds that bring 
or deny the rain. And the rainy season, Juyap, is the maternal uncle 
of all; the one who, in the prevailing order, is the member of the 
family with the greatest power and the highest social rank. Thus 
the legend is molded to fit the existent social realities of the culture, 
at the same time that the transcendental role of the natural elements 
in Guajiro economy is recognized. 

The gradual, present-day conquest of the Guajira is being effected 
in part by the process of mixed marriages, i.e., between Indian women 
and men from outside who are carriers of modern culture, be they 
white, Negro, or mestizos. Temporary marriages are entered into 
with Indian women by civil and military authorities or by tradesmen, 
who buy their wives in accordance with Guajiro law and adapt them- 



3 Chaves, M., La Guajira, una region y una cultura de Colombia, Rev. Colomblana 
Antrop., vol. 1, No. 1, p. 182, June 1953. 



ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA — CRIST 485 

selves to local customs, and whose children, according to Guajiro tra- 
dition, do not belong to them but to their wives. Permanent mar- 
riages are made by outsiders who have come to settle in the Peninsula, 
some of whom buy a wife or wives in the Guajiro manner, while others 
marry one wife according to Catholic rites. Whatever the character 
of these mixed marriages, the children are brought up in two cul- 
tures. During their early, most impressionable years they are im- 
bued with the Guajiro language and with other cultural traits of 
their mother. 

Many of these mestizo children are educated, at least for a time, 
outside the Peninsula, with the result that a layer of "modern" culture 
is superimposed or grafted onto the maternal Guajira culture. But 
the grafting is not universally successful — in the words of the horti- 
culturist, it does not always take. Many who have gone to school or 
lived for several years in Caracas or Maracaibo, in Bogota or Baran- 
quilla, upon their return to the Guajira appear very happy to settle 
down and live in the manner of their Guajiro ancestors. They may 
build a permanent, cement-floored house in the nearby settlement of 
La Gloria, one that is a far ciy from the thatch-roofed, dirt-floored 
huts of their unaccultured fellows in the vast desert beyond, but the 
idea, for example, of constructing a privy has evidently never oc- 
curred to them, and if the visitor asks where such facilities are, a 
baffled look comes over the face of his host, who makes a sweeping 
gesture with the hands to indicate that the whole wide desert is avail- 
able for such use. 

The Indians of the Guajira are divided into various clans or blood 
groups, castas, each with its distinguishing totem representing the 
animal with whose traits, according to legend, the clan was originally 
imbued. For centuries every clan was theoretically — and often ac- 
tually — on a war footing with all other clans. Blood feuds for real 
or imagined causes were common and sometimes resulted in the anni- 
hilation or enslavement of the vanquished clan. Marriage was prac- 
ticed within the clan. Only recently have marriages between mem- 
bers of different clans tended to decrease interclan tensions and blood 
feuds. Formerly each member of a clan was considered a blood rela- 
tive of every other member. In the course of time the blood relation- 
ship of any member came to be restricted to his mother and her an- 
cestors, her brothers and sisters and their descendants. 

In La Gloria, where some marriages are being performed in the 
Catholic Church instead of by purchase and with Guajiro ritual, still 
more marked changes in the system of relationship have been intro- 
duced. In the case of marriages within the church — which first of 
all substitutes the concept of monogamy for the traditional polyga- 
mous unions — children are no longer considered to pertain exclusively 
to their mother's clan, nor do they carry her name. Instead the 



486 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

children carry their father's name, and the father's side of the house 
thus becomes more important than the mother's. At the same time 
the avunculate, the authority and the dominant role of the maternal 
uncle in the life of the family and clan, is destroyed by the pre- 
dominance of the father, whose responsibilities to his children are also 
increased. Since the church forbids plural marriages, and the father 
has a feeling of greater responsibility toward his children, the tend- 
ency to be limited to one wife likewise increases — this in spite of the 
fact that Guajiro law can be invoked and a number of wives purchased 
outside the church. 

The Carvajal family in La Gloria (pi. 1, fig. 1) has been affected 
by these various cultural cross currents. The parents themselves were 
formally married in the church only a few years ago after 25 years 
of common-law marriage and when the eldest of their 11 children was 
already grown. The eldest daughter (pi. 1, fig. 2), married in the 
church, lives in Maracaibo with her Latin husband and five children, 
who speak only Spanish and who will have only vague memories of 
the part-Guajiro household of their grandparents. The eldest boy, 
Jesus, was also married in the church, but, in spite of several years 
at school in Maracaibo, to a pure-blooded Guajira (pi. 2, fig. 1), whose 
whole background is Guajiro, who speaks no Spanish, and by whom 
he now has a daughter and a son. They will be brought up to school 
age speaking only the Guajiro language, after which they will also 
learn S])anish and thus in time will sit astride the two cultures. 

According to Guajiro law, a man acquires a wife through purchase 
from her family, by paying a certain sum in cattle, horses, goats, 
sheep, and perhaps in some costly jewelry. A girl child accordingly 
represents a certain amount of wealth that will come to her family 
with the bride price, whereas the boy child will be an economic drain 
upon his family when he marries, since they must get together the 
bride price, which will leave the family. For this reason the Guajiro 
takes better care of his female children and watches over them with 
greater solicitude than he does over his male children. This situation 
is reflected in the few statistics that are available, which show a much 
higher death rate for male than for female children.^ When the 
Guajiro begins to appreciate certain values of the culture of the 
civilisados, the attitude toward male children undergoes a change : the 
boy can help his father at an early age, and particularly if his father 
is engaged in trade with the Guajiros, he can be an economic asset 
rather than a liability. 

M. E. S. Hartland, in "Primitive Society," * observes that "Patri- 
archal rule and patrilineal kinship have made perpetual inroads upon 
mother-right all over the world ; consequently matrilineal institutions 

» Roberto Pineda Glraldo, Informe prellmlnar sobre aspectos soclales y econ6mlcos de 
la Guajira, BoL Arqueol., December 1947, p. 565. 
* 1921, p. 34. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Crist 



PLATE 1 




Mr. and Mrs. Carvajal, with seven of their children and one of their grandchildren, in 
the inner patio of their home. 




2. The eldest daughter, married to a businessman in A-Iaracaibo, with her five children, all 
of whom speak only Spanish. Her younger sister is dressed up to take first communion, 
on St. Joseph's Day. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Crist 



PLATE 2 




_5 -!3 ^ 

& ^ rt c 



O 3 

-Q So 



<" .a 



.t; "o c u P 



5 •„-: ^ 



O 



& > 



™ _c o 





0< cs 



^ p 

■fe i. 



-d CO .5 



.2 


a 




V 


^ 




■•— > 


OS 


(U 


<u 


C-1 




c3 


a, 


60 


u 






P 


CO 


ra 


c3 


u 




O 

V 


o 
c 


00 

c 


«" 

s 




^3 


-a 


^ 


'"^ 


« 


p 


Q. 


o 


oi 


o 


S 




ra 


^ 
3 


a, 

to 




12 

o 


U4 
60 

S 


J3 


k 

3 


C 

o 


3 

o 


1 


>» 


Dh 




1) 


u 




O. 




4-" 

<L> 

2 




3 

S 


1> 
O 




"S 


C 


o 


u 





Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Crist 



PLATE 3 




1. The stockadelike home of the Carvajals, which is store, house, and stockade for sheep 

and goats. 




2. This swale, full ^t waier when it rains, supports a thick slaad ul grass which is cropped 
during the season of drought. Plantains thrive here where the water table is usually 
near the surface. 




3. Young coconut trees, set out on the dunes, in a few years become a source of regular 

income to the owner. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Crist 



PLATE 4 




1. New arrivals from the bush construct the simplest sort of shelter in which to hang their 

hammocks. 




1. Lwiikuii; 1^ lIuiic with the barest essentials. 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Crist 



PLATE 5 



■par- 





1. Cotton thread is spun by hand for the making of hammocks. 




2. Women whose husbands are working on the ranches south of Maracaibo. Not one of 

them speaks Spanish. 



Smithsonian Report, IP'JH. -Orist 



Plate 6 



■ 




1. The well on the southern edge of La Gloria. Coconut palms are seen in the distance, 
beyond the wind-swept sand dunes. 




2. The scene around the water tank is animated all day long, as animals drink, gourds are 
filled, children are bathed, and clothes, washed in big wooden bateas, or basins. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Crist 



PLATE 7 




1. A shallow dug well reaches the water table below the dunes and supplies drinking water 
for a household during the long drought. 




2. At the edge of a coconut grove onions and peppers are grown in the raised frame to the 
right. The owner spoke almost no Spanish. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Crist 



Plate 8 




1. 'I'hc women folk especially are always ready to dress up and paiiii up Cu dance Llie 

chichamaya. 




2. One family has a thriving business of cutting up old tires and making them into sandals. 



ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA — CRIST 487 

are found in almost all stages of transition to a state of society in 
which the father is the center of kinship and government." These 
observations hold true of the Guajira. Changes are continuously 
taking place in the matrilineal structure, but at the present time ma- 
ternal kinship still continues to exist side by side with institutions of 
paternal authority. 

LAND TENURE 

The land in the Guajira is almost completely haldio^ or state owned, 
so far as the nation is concerned. The various clans, or castas^ how- 
ever, occupy lands that, according to oral tradition, have always been 
grazed by the flocks of their ancestors; thus they claim the "im- 
memorial rights" of the desert Bedouins. Problems begin to arise 
as soon as grazing is no longer the principal activity. Wlien seden- 
tary agriculture is carried on, the farmer must know who owns the 
land or, at least, who owns the crop. The practice followed at present 
is that whoever plants a crop anywhere has the right to the usufruct 
of the land planted, as long as he continues to work it. Heirs can 
inherit the right of usufruct. The burden of keeping the crop fenced 
oif against the depredations of migratory flocks rests upon the owner 
of the crop. 

Since there has been no tradition of landholding by individuals 
in fee simple, it is difficult to get people interested in rights to land. 
Many persons even build relatively substantial homes, with cement 
floors and walls and with aluminum or galvanized-iron roofs, with- 
out having made any effort to get what we think of as a clear title — 
or any kind of title — to the land. To be sure, in Latin America 
generally, rights to real property are vague, and squatters are preva- 
lent. Those humble folk who do hold papers often find to their 
sorrow that they are notoriously subject to invalidation. Nevertheless 
the Guajiro, by his whole background, is conditioned to an acceptance 
of vague concepts with reference to landholding, which carries over 
into tlie zone of acculturation as well. 

AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES AND HOUSEHOLD INDUSTRIES 

Over the past generation a new note has been added to the cultural 
landscape from Sinamaica northward to well past Paraguaipoa — 
the coconut grove. Each year new groves are being established (pi. 
3, fig. 3) and old groves are being increased in extent. The completion 
of the asphalt highway to Paraguaipoa made it possible to extend 
groves even farther north because of the ease of transporting the 
products to market. "While a small number of the coconuts are used 
to supply the local demand for the refreshing coconut water, agua de 
coco^ by far the larger part of the crops is used for the production 
of coconut oil, wliich is extracted from the meat of the ripe coconut 



488 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

in crude presses, bottled, and shipped to the Maracaibo market. 
The residue remaining after the oil has been extracted is used for the 
fattening of hogs, which are kept in pens provided with a floor to 
keep them off the ground. This measure prevents disease, and in the 
small pens the pigs cannot run off their fat. 

Although the basic economy of the Guajira is grazing, and has 
been for centuries, the Guajiros are not afraid of strenuous physical 
toil. They have been inured to the hard work of clearing plots for 
growing their yuca or millets, digging wells, and dipping water. The 
reply of a cocal owner in La Gloria, who had just planted 400 new 
trees, to the statement that he could surely live well, being the owner 
of such a fine coconut grove, was that "by dint of hard work one can 
live well here, as elsewhere." Those who own cocales have a more 
or less steady income; they can sell green coconuts occasionally in 
the local market; they also have the meats of the ripe fruit to eat 
themselves or to grind and feed to hogs and chickens for use in the 
home. The relatively steady income also makes it possible for them 
to buy and consume more of the protective foods than can those who 
have only the meager wages of menfolk working on the distant 
ranches in the foothills of the Perija Mountains. 

One might hazard the guess that at the present rate of planting 
coconut trees, within another 20 years most of the available sand- 
dune area between Paraguaipoa and Cojoro may be planted in that 
crop. The Guajiro or mestizo who establishes a coconut grove is 
himself the active agent of change of his own physical environment — 
and he so sees himself. He is already well along in the process of 
acculturation, for it is then an easy step to acceptance of certain 
of the nonmaterial elements of Latin culture, in which he has already 
achieved economic security, or anchorage. In La Gloria, too, on 
the strip of sand dunes inland from the Gulf, groves are being estab- 
lished by forward-looking settlers. 

Although long months of drought had completely dried up the 
fresh-water lagoon that lies in the midst of the dimes east of the main 
area of La Gloria, the water table beneath the dunes was still only 
a few yards deep and could be easily reached by digging a shallow 
well (pi. 7, fig. 1). In time of drought water from shallow wells 
is dipped up by hand to water the young coconut trees whose roots 
have not yet reached the ground-water table. (Trees are planted 
in August and September, before the annual rains are scheduled to 
arrive in October, November, and December.) This water is also 
used for irrigating by hand the small kitchen gardens, called harha- 
coas^ a kind of cold-frame structure on legs 3 feet high (pi. 7, fig. 2), 
in which is put a mixture of loam, sand, and animal manure 8 or 
10 inches in depth to form a bed of good soil, and in which a few 
onions and peppers are grown for home use. It might be mentioned 



ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA — CRIST 489 

that south of Maracaibo, harbacoa agriculture is carried on on a large 
commercial scale. 

At the edge of the La Gloria lagoon grows a row of banana trees 
that supply plantains, or cooking bananas, an important item in 
the local diet. As the lagoon gradually dries up, grass grows in its 
moist bed (pi. 3, fig. 2). This is eagerly harvested and doled out 
parsimoniously to the livestock that is most valuable and at the 
same time most in need. 

The Guajira is a land of hammocks. Girls brought up in the 
Guajiro tradition learn to weave at an early age while helping their 
mothers (pi. 2, fig. 2). AVlien a girl arrives at adolescence and 
undergoes the ritual of purification, the hlanqueo or "blanching," she 
is secluded in a room or special hut for a period of many months. 
During this time of enforced seclusion she learns the domestic virtues 
of cooking, weaving in intricate patterns and designs, and how to 
please her husband. She may weave belts and moneybags for her 
future husband, and she usually weaves an enormous hammock wliich 
is put away for her own use at marriage. The weaving of ham- 
mocks has been carried to a high degree of perfection. In a majority 
of the houses in La Gloria women are engaged in this activity. It is 
an operation that can be carried on alone or together with one or two 
companions, and that can be performed at odd moments between 
other more pressing chores. A good hammock requires several 
months to complete, but since hammocks sell for from a hundred to 
two hundred bolivars or more apiece, a tidy sum may be realized. 
The opportunity of working together makes the occupation of ham- 
mock making particularly attractive to many of the women of 
La Gloria, whose menfolk are absent for long periods of time work- 
ing in Maracaibo or in Peri j a. 

The centuries-old pattern of polygamy has conditioned Guajiro 
women to adjusting themselves to long absences of their menfolk; 
they have become used, in accordance with immemorial custom, to 
carrying on for months or even years at a time their daily routine 
of living and working without the man of the house. Matrilineal 
ties are still so strongly structured that the wife can continue to 
build a satisfying family life which takes such long absences without 
disruption; she has her weaving to keep her busy and her thoughts 
occupied, and she can turn for help or advice to her brothers or to 
a maternal uncle or some other man of her blood who is available 
in an emergency. Furthermore, where one of the features of the 
cultural background has been a nomadic or seminomadic way of life, 
migration of itself is not a disruptive or even a disturbing factor, 
for the individual capacity of readjustment to change is hardly 
strained at all. To be sure, many of those living in La Gloria ex- 
perience periods of food scarcity, if not actual want. To the question. 



490 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Why were the men in Ziruma? — the Guajiro slum sector of Mara- 
caibo — a lone woman in her one-room hut, deftly weaving a beautiful 
hanmiock, made the shattering and unanswerable reply, "Ziruma is 
better than the Guajira when you are starving." 

One Guajiro who has worked at times as a chauffeur in the oilfields, 
and who now does odd jobs in the way of trucking and hauling pro- 
duce to market, operates a little repair shop out in the open air at the 
side of his house. Between periods of traveling around the Guajira 
he spends his time in La Gloria reconditioning a beat-up truck or a 
jeep of ancient vintage, either bought as a bargain in Maracaibo or 
retired after many years' service over the bumpy trails of the Guajira; 
he sets up his own work schedule and works when he has the time 
and feels like it ; one is amazed at the ingenuity he shows in tackling 
difficult jobs. He is considered a master mechanic, and he has as 
helper or apprentice an intelligent industrious Guajiro youth who 
is learning the trade. 

Incipient industries have also been started by enterprising in- 
dividuals. One householder has started up a thriving business 
making sandals with soles cut from castoff rubber tires (pi. 8, fig. 2). 
His womenfolk make on small hand looms the bands of coarse cotton 
fiber with which the sandals are held firmly in place on the foot. 
These products are sold in the local market at Paraguaipoa and are 
also bought up in job lots by merchants for distribution in Maracaibo. 
The maker has the advantages of living in a low-rent zone, of having 
the help of his womenfolk, and of having no transportation or dis- 
tribution problems. 

There is also a jeweler who lives in one of the tiny huts, and whose 
personal history and background are shrouded and vague. He was 
the only person who spoke no Guajiro, who was not hospitable, who 
wanted no pictures taken at all. Although he claimed to be from 
Maracaibo, he was reportedly from Colombia. It is possible that he 
may be in Venezuela for his health, that behind the front of gold 
and silver smelting he is engaged in activities of a secretive or clan- 
destine order. 

That La Gloria is a zone of cultural transition is shown by the 
various house types, a reflection of the cultural background and the 
degree of acculturation of the builder and owner. There is no fixed 
pattern ; everyone builds what his purse, his fancy, and his degree of 
acculturation indicate as feasible. New arrivals from the interior may 
construct a simple framework set on four posts and covered with 
palm leaves for shade (pi. 4, fig. 1). There are no walls, ham- 
mocks are slung from the uprights, and cooking is done in the open 
(pi. 4, fig. 2). Such a primitive home may be lived in for weeks or 
even months, after which the owners may build a somewhat more 
pretentious home, or they may leave for the bush again. They are 



ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA — CRIST 491 

comparable to the Bedouins who come in off the desert of North 
Africa or Arabia and camp near the villages or cities while they de- 
cide whether to cast in their lot with the city dwellers or return to 
the desert to live under the black tents again. The houses of the 
man with two wives, located about 100 yards apart, are typical of 
the area around the lagoon of Sinamaica where the houses have walls 
made of rush mats and roofs of palm-leaf thatch. Those who are 
well accultured and have enough money will build a house with a 
cement floor, adobe walls, and thatch roof. The more sophisticated 
will plaster the adobe walls with a layer of cement, and many even 
have a roof of eternit or of galvanized iron. 

THE CARVAJAL FAMILY: ACCULTURATIONAL LEAVEN 

A kind of nucleus for this loosely knit settlement is formed by 
the stockadelike home of Manuel Carvajal (pi. 3, fig. 1) who first 
settled in La Gloria 27 years ago. This is rather an agglomeration 
of one-room units, built with the passage of the years to take care of 
the family as it gradually increased in size. The central 
cement-floored structure is used as a dining room, and a living- 
reception room. At night it accommodates a number of ham- 
mocks for guests or for family. Around this are other one-room 
houses, in which the family lives its private life, and in which the 
cooking is done and servants and hangers-on sleep. Mr. Carvajal 
has long been in the business of buying, transporting, and selling 
livestock. To one side of the cluster of rooms it is possible to drive 
trucks and jeeps into the fenced-in enclosure. Here animals can be 
unloaded from the trucks, sorted out and reloaded. Animals not 
to be reshipped immediately or those arriving on foot can be driven 
through the corridor between the dining-living room and the structure 
in which the cooking is done to the large, sturdily built corral on the 
other side of the agglomeration. Mr. Carvajal is also the only one 
in this locality who keeps a store, where produce from the interior 
may be sold or exchanged and where such necessities as yuca, corn, 
beer, yard goods, and now gasoline and oil may be bought. Thus 
the increased number of functions made expansion of the original 
dwelling imperative. The entire compound, surrounded by a high, 
well-built fence, is a self-contained unit which looks like a frontier 
stockade. 

Mr. Carvajal is ideally equipped to act as an agent of what might 
be called cultural penetration; born and brought up in Sinamaica, 
he is a typical product of Latin American culture; energetic and 
adventurous, he began trading with the Guajiros as a young man, and 
went all over the Peninsula selling yard goods, tobacco, and other 
necessities, buying or taking in exchange produce of the countryside, 
such as goatskins, divi divi pods, and so on. During the early years 



492 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

he traveled alone, with a train of burros to carry his wares ; after he 
married he was often accompanied on his journeys by his wife and 
children. His business prospered greatly when he was accompanied 
by his wife who, being a mestiza, daughter of a Venezuelan father and 
a Guajiro mother, laiew the language and customs well and was thus 
an invaluable aid in all business transactions. The business increased 
in volume; the family increased in numbers; the time finally came 
when it was necessary to have a kind of permanent headquarters. 
What would be more natural than that this couple settle on the 
Guajiro side of the economic capital of the district, to work out their 
destiny in the zone of active acculturation north of Paraguaipoa, 
where the two cultures interpenetrate? Here they are educating a 
family of children that includes six sons and five daughters to feel 
at home in both cultures. The boys have traveled with their parents 
over much of the Guajira, have pleasant, outgoing personalities, and 
are serious and cooperative; several daugliters have attended school 
in Maracaibo, v/here the eldest has married and is the mother of five 
handsome, Spanish-speaking children. 

DIET, ALCOHOLISM, AND MEDICAL CARE 

Except for those who own and operate coconut groves, most of the 
inhabitants of La Gloria buy their foodstuffs from the store on a day- 
to-day basis with the money received from the menfolk who work 
in Maracaibo or on the ranches in the foothills of the Peri j a Moun- 
tains. As acculturation proceeds in La Gloria, Guajiros tend to buy 
from the store cheap starchy foods such as cooking bananas, polished 
rice, canned oatmeal, and packaged macaroni and spaghetti. There 
is an orientation, in cooking, toward what tastes good or sweet; the 
theory of balanced meals has made little headway. As new foods 
are incorporated into the diet, there is decreased consumption of one 
of the traditional dishes, the healthful and filling thick soup, maza- 
niora^ made of bitter yuca and goat's milk; bottled soft drinks of 
many hues and weird flavors are substituted for the vitamin-rich 
cMcha,, a refreshing fermented native beer, made of corn, of millets, 
or of cactus fruits. The factor of prestige enters into dietary habits. 
There is more status, for instance, in eating white bread than the 
arepa de mais, with the result that more and more white bread and 
rolls are substituted for the old-fashioned corn patty, especially on 
festive occasions. This change in dietary and drinking habits has 
brought on a marked increase in tooth decay among those who live 
in La Gloria. The Guajiros living out on the Peninsula almost 
invariably have fine teeth. 

Alcoholism is rampant throughout the Peninsula among the male 
Indian population. Malnutrition and a monotonous diet may be 
among the reasons for this excessive fondness for firewater, but it 



ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA — CRIST 493 

is significant that heavy drinking is done exclusively by the men. 
In the face of the niggardly, inhospitable Guajiro physical environ- 
ment, it is not surprising that some, a prey to frustrations, would 
hope to drown their worries in alcohol. Perhaps Guajiro men feel, 
like men in many other societies, that the ability to imbibe large 
quantities of alcohol is a mark of manly strength and valor. Wliat- 
ever the reasons, in many of the small caserios or individual houses 
the menfolk will stay drunk for days or even weeks. However, to 
the observer it seems that there is less addiction to alcohol in La 
Gloria than among the unaccultured Guajiros, in spite of certain 
inevitable tensions brought about by the disturbances in the cus- 
tomary patterns of living implied by the assumption of a sedentary 
way of life by a seminomadic people. 

It is possible that in the process of being incorporated in the 
national economy, Guajiros become keenly aware of the importance 
of clear-headedness in commercial transactions. To be sure, fiestas 
are still popular and the men still enjoy a good drunk, but there 
seems to be a tendency to cut dow^n the amount of time spent in ritual 
drinking. 

In La Gloria, as elsewhere in the Guajira, the diseases that cause 
the high rate of infant mortality are intestinal infections of all kinds, 
due largely to the complete lack of what is known as infant care. 
In a house with sand or dirt floors, small children, living as they do 
in close proximity to pigs and chickens and putting in their mouths 
what they can find, are naturally subject to such ills as stomach aches, 
vomiting, diarrhea, and intestinal fevers. 

Faith in the old-time magic of the piache^ or witch doctor — usually 
an old woman — appears to be one of the first items to be lost in the 
process of acculturation ; the "medicine" of the witch doctor, however 
strong, is often such as to make for the rapid aggravation of the dis- 
ease rather than for its cure. However, cases are not rare of Guajiros 
who, accultured to the extent of using trained doctors and modern 
medicines and techniques when ill, would be fomid at the same time 
to be consulting a witch doctor — just to be on the safe side. Indeed, 
the results of the introduction of modern medicine are not always 
as felicitous as might be expected or as happy as could be desired. 
For one thing, modern preventive measures are neglected in favor 
of modern curative medicines — and the more powerful the better. 
Injections are all the rage in La Gloria as elsewhere. Itinerant ped- 
dlers of injections carry on their "ministrations" openly even in the 
streets of the large metropolitan center of Maracaibo; hence it is 
not to be wondered at that those who are groping toward the light, 
away from the darkness of cures by magic of the Guajiro culture, 
should seize on this new magic of modern medicine. Thus persons 
with no knowledge of asepsis — much less of curative medicine — give 



494 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

injections of powerful drugs that can in some cases be dangerous even 
when administered by a trained doctor or technician. 

In many parts of the world, being sick confers prestige, because 
only those in a privileged position can afford the time to be sick, the 
time to think of their symptoms, and especially the money to buy medi- 
cines. This aspect of "conspicuous waste" is seized upon avidly by 
people in process of acculturation in La Gloria as elsewhere, who there- 
in find an easy way to achieve prestige. By discussing in public the 
symptoms of one's ills, real or imaginary, one proves that he can afford 
to be sick. Guajiros recently arrived in La Gloria spend almost no 
time or money on doctors or medicines; the greater the degree of 
acculturation, the greater the amount of time and money spent on 
sicknesses. Further prestige can be achieved if one boasts of the 
amount of money he spends for medicines and the amount of time 
he spends in the hammock recovering from injections, usually admin- 
istered by himself or by a friend, without the advice of a doctor. 
A person suffering from amoebic dysentery may be receiving injec- 
tions of solutions of calcium, of penicillin, or of any one of the modem 
wonder drugs instead of the specific cure for his disease. A person 
who accidentally falls into a tankf ul of the insecticide used to dip ani- 
mals to rid them of their ticks will be given the "necessary" injections ! 
A penicillin shot is better for a headache than aspirin, of course, 
because penicillin costs more and thus gives more prestige. 

CULTURE, EDUCATION, AND LITERACY 

Through culture — the body of material objects, traditions, and 
stereotyped mental processes — man is capable of developing a second- 
ary environment that makes it easier for him to adapt himself to the 
physical conditions — and them to himself — in the area in which he is 
born and reared. The numerous human adjustments to the natural 
physical environment as well as to the artificial or cultural environ- 
ment have to be acquired by each generation. Education has in gen- 
eral taken place simply by the influence of the surrounding and 
all-pervading cultural environment on the ripening mind of each 
individual in any given society; for thousands of years all over the 
world the family has been the first and most important educational 
institution for all ; the older generation simply passed on to the chil- 
dren the skills, religious concepts, and traditions of the culture. Such 
education was sim^^ly the inculcation of the established tradition, and 
as such had nothing to do with literacy. Since literacy as such was not 
necessary to the Guajiro for coping with his physical and social 
environments, the language is still unwritten. Many are the Guajiros 
today — even in La Gloria — who feel no compulsion to learn Spanish. 
The women especially, the traditional carriers of the cultural pattern, 
particularly in a matriliny, have no urge to learn Spanish. Many of 



ACCULTURATION EST THE GUAJIRA — CRIST 495 

them, living in La Gloria, in Paraguaipoa, or even in Maracaibo, are 
content to speak Guajiro all their lives, and of course to pass it on to 
their children, without so much as an attempt to learn Spanish. 

Upon one occasion we arrived in the jeep at dusk at the well just 
south of La Gloria (pi. 6, fig. 1) . A group of six or eight Guajiro men 
were in a palaver. One large, raw-boned individual, although so drmik 
he was lying fiat on his back when we arrived, was helped to his feet 
by his indulgent and respectful fellows, never losing his dignity. Once 
his bleary, bloodshot eyes had told him that he was in the presence of 
gente de pantalon, or civilisados, he spoke in an imposing, somewhat 
boastful voice. His first words were, "I am an Indian, but I speak 
Spanish like anyone else." Obviously for this particular Guajiro the 
speaking of Spanish was a cultural achievement of which he was very 
proud and which added to his prestige among his own fellows. Indeed 
he was the only one among this particular group who could communi- 
cate, however brokenly, in that language. 

Those born of parents of different cultures are confronted with the 
task of sorting out and choosing the values from both cultures most 
congenial to them. Those who show an aptitude for learning and 
using Spanish, as soon as they associate with others who know and use 
the language, are often the ones who avidly assume the other attitudes 
and attributes of Latin culture ; for the degree of culture or of accul- 
turation depends not only on the plasticity of innate endowment, but 
upon the sentunents and whims, the tastes and foibles of each individ- 
ual. For instance some Guajiros and even mestizos in La Gloria — and 
some Latins — prefer to identify themselves with Guajiro culture, to 
buy several wives according to Guajiro law, and thus to have and to 
rear children who are culturally Guajiros; others marry one wife, use 
Spanish whenever possible, may even move to Maracaibo, and thus 
gradually become, with their family, incorporated completely into 
Latin culture. 

By and large, however, the Guajiro is proud of his race, of being 
Indian, of speaking his Guajiro language, and this is equally true of 
many mestizos, Guajiro on the mother's side of the house. And al- 
though it is true that in most of Colombia and in certain sectors or 
social strata of Venezuela an Indian ancestry is something to be de- 
nied, ashamed of, or at least not to be boasted of, this is in general 
not true of those who have Guajiro blood. This is probably due to 
the fact that Guajiro culture itself contains many norms, values, and 
elements common to, or similar to, those found in the system of Span- 
ish American values. For instance, Guajiros are proud, individual- 
istic, and valiant (mwy valiente) ; they have a highly developed sense 
of personal and human dignity, and an injury or insult to an individ- 
ual is considered an attack upon the clan and must be paid for in 
money or animals, or even in blood; Guajiros live openly, according 

492520—59 38 



496 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

to tribal law, with many wives — a desideratum, to be sure, of many 
men in divers cultures — and are certainly as possessive of their fe- 
males and as intent upon being a he-man, a macho ^ as those of Span- 
ish American culture. Perhaps it could be stated that in general 
the greater the number of values held in common by two cultures 
effecting fusion, the more gradual the process of acculturation. 

EMIGRATION AND ACCULTURATION 

The Guajiro has supplied a current of migration to other sectors 
of the Republics of Colombia and Venezuela — male relatives or those 
already established in the vicinity of Paraguaipoa visit their kin- 
folk in La Gloria, sometimes for a period of several months, before 
continuing on to the Peri j a area in search of work. Those who have 
absolutely nothing often walk the whole long way from Maracaibo — 
sometimes even from Paraguaipoa — to the ranch area, looking for 
work on the way. This they do not consider an miusual hardship, ac- 
customed as they have been since early childhood to walking great 
distances as they followed their flocks back and forth across their 
homeland, the Guajira Peninsula. By whatever means they arrive at 
the ranch, it is a fact that the labor force on the new ranches that have 
been and still are being opened up southwest of Maracaibo, in the foot- 
hills of the Perija Momitains, consist almost 100 percent of Guajiros, 
many of whom spend some time in a kind of "proving ground" or zone 
of cultural transition, such as La Gloria. 

Many Guajiros unfortunately are plunged into the foreigTi Latin 
culture instead of gradually absorbing it, and being absorbed in it, 
as are those in zones of acculturation like La Gloria. In the upper 
Guajira, hundreds of Guajiros are packed each week into old beaten- 
up trucks, transformed into buses by the simple expedient of placing 
heavy planks crosswise in the body of the truck to serve as seats; 
Thursdays and Fridays these lumbering trucks move their human 
cargo over the rocky, bumpy trails to Paraguaipoa, and thence over 
the paved highway to Maracaibo; there the Guajiros are thinist into 
the very thick of life in a modern metropolis, with all its pitfalls 
for the unwary who do not speak the official language; all too often 
they absorb only the less desirable features of modern urban life, 
perhaps begimiing with overdrinking and all too often ending up in 
fights and brawls that may even land them in jail. 

CONCLUSIONS 

Will the modern improvements now being incorporated in Guajiro 
society change it root and branch, or will they merely strengthen the 
tough fibers of this vital, long-lived culture that has successfully 
withstood the impact of new races and new elements of material cul- 



ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA — CRIST 497 

ture? Over the centuries the Guajiro way of life has altered in some 
phases, but its core has remained essentially the same. 

What gives to Guajiro society its cohesive strength? Wliat fea- 
tures make possible for its members a life of fulfillment ? What are 
the elements that nourish in them a lasting loyalty? A culture 
which, to the outsider, appears to be characterized mainly by routine, 
monotony, and drudgery, may yet offer for those living in it so many 
intangible or psychic compensations, so much pleasure for the flesh 
and poetry for the spirit, that they find in it the ideal way of life. 
Only a prolonged analysis can provide the whole answer. Neverthe- 
less a basic twofold aspect early impresses the observer: Guajiro 
society is interdependent, cooperative, and fraternal, and the bonds of 
family are strong. Surrounded in infancy by maternal and family 
love, accepted and protected — so long as there exist the barest means 
of subsistence — already in tender years contributing in their measure 
to the cooperative unit, with chores and duties and responsible de- 
meanor, children early have a feeling that they belong, and acquire 
a sense of individual human dignity. The landscape of their larger 
environments to those who compel it to yield up a living, however 
meager, seems friendly rather than hostile, and, because it seems 
friendly, attractive. Most of us recall with nostalgic pleasure the 
physical scenes of our childhood, which we endow with semimagic 
qualities. The Guajiro feels the same charm in those wide stretches 
of lonely sand and scrub and cactus, windblown and sun-parched, the 
muted palette relieved by sudden flashes of bright-plumaged birds and 
a hint of the blue sea beyond the distant dunes : this is the home of 
his people, these the broad preserves of the close-knit brotherhood of 
the Guajiros. 

The physical environment of the Guajira is so harsh as to seem 
at first glance to preclude the possibility of evolving or maintaining 
a culture. The fact that a society has succeeded in doing so in spite of 
the inhospitable physical environment speaks very highly for the in- 
trinsic values preserved in the culture. To be sure, the manmade laws, 
rules of conduct and taboos that m.en live by, tend to be absolute, to 
allow of no deviations. Society establishes severe sanctions for those 
who strike out on untried paths. Nature is more pliable, more resili- 
ent, and physical factors seem often to allow of more leeway in adjust- 
ment by, for, and to man than does the cultural environment created by 
man himself. 

All over the Guajira Peninsula there is a ferment of acculturation 
as the Guajiros sink their cultural roots, as it were, deep into both re- 
publics — beyond Machiques in Venezuela, and beyond Valledupar in 
Colombia; the process is relatively rapid in La Gloria, whose in- 
habitants, neither exclusively Guajiro in culture nor completely 



498 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

"Latin American," or Criolla^ are in a transitional stage between the 
two ; they are in the process of selecting those elements and adopting 
those attitudes in the two cultures with which they feel physically and 
psychically most at home, most comfortable, and which they at the 
same time feel give most prestige and offer the best possibility of 
making a living within the framework of the newly adopted prestige 
structure. There are many valid values in Guajiro culture for both 
Indians and Latins, and the reciprocal process of acculturation pro- 
ceeds gradually. The Guajiros in La Gloria are fortunate in having 
a zone in which they can maneuver their cultural forces, as it were, 
and slowly sort out the values that seem suitable. 

In spite of droughts, hard work, and lean days, life in La Gloria is 
interesting and dynamic ; everyone feels to a greater or less degree the 
pull of the two cultures, and the responses often depend on wholly 
intangible factors. One man will prefer monogamy because he is un- 
ashamedly in love with his wife, another because he always felt that 
his mother — one of the several wives of his father — did not have a 
fair deal, while still another will marry several wives a la Guajiro 
because he simply likes variety ; one woman will give up painting her 
face black as a protection against the sun after once seeing Latin 
women of Maracaibo without black paint, while another will continue 
to paint her face, and that of her daughter, no matter how many times 
she goes to Maracaibo, because her mother before her always painted 
her face, and her mother always knew the right thing to do ! And 
so on, and so on, with each individual case. It is impossible to predict 
beforehand which element of material or nonmaterial culture will be 
seized upon and held fast. Reason and logic are seldom invoked by 
human societies to determine what is decent or indecent, clean or un- 
clean, valid or invalid, good or bad ; the members of each society feel 
that what they do is decent, clean, valid, and good, "for thinking makes 
it so." 

SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY 

AausTiN, Josfi DE Barbanquilla. 

1953. Asi es la Guajira. 2d ed. Bosrotd. 
Akmsteong, John AI., and MfTRAUx, Alfred. 

1948. The Guajiros. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 143, Handbook of South 
American Indians, vol. 4, pp. 369-383. 
Benitez, Rafael. 

1957. La Guajira en 1874. Ed. Marco Aurelio Vila. Maracaibo. 
Chaves, Milciades. 

1946. Mitos, leyendas y cuentos de la Guajira. Bol. Arqueol., vol. 2, No. 4, 

pp. 305-332. 
1951. Emigraci6n Guarija. Bol. Soe. Geogr. Colombia, vol. 9, No. 1, pp. 5-28. 
Crist, R. B. 

1958. The land and people of the Guajira Peninsula. Ann. Rep. Smithso- 

nian Inst, for 1957, pp. 339-355. 



ACCULTURATION IN THE GUAJIRA — CRIST 499 

Ebnst, A. 

1887. Die ethnographische Stellung der Guajiro-Indianer. Zeitschr. 

EthnoL, vol. 10, pp. 425-444. 
1892-1893. Idem. El Cojo lUustrado, Nos. 22-25. 

GAXLEGOS, R6MUL0. 

1944. Sobre la Misma Tlerra. Caracas. 
Gutierrez de Pineda, Virginia. 

1950. Organizaci6n social de la Quajira. Rev. Inst. EtnoL Nac, vol. 3, 
pp. 1-257. 
HeenXndez de Alba, Gregorio. 

1936. Etnologia Guajira. 2d ed. Bogota. 
Martinez- Cabana, Carlos. 

1955. Rugged individualists thrive in the Guajira Peninsula. Americas, 
July, pp. 7-12. 
Pineda Giraldo, Roberto. 

1949. Informe preliminar sobre aspectos sociales y cconSmicos de la Guajira. 

Expedicion 1947. Bol. Arqueol., vol. 2, Nos. 5-6, pp. 529-572. 

1950. Aspectos de la magia en la Guajira. Rev. Inst. Etnol. Nac, vol. 3, 

pp. 1-154. 
Reichel-Dolmatoff, Gerardo. 

1951. Datos historico-culturales sobre las tribus de la Antigua gobernaciSn 

de Santa Marta. 131 pp. Bogotd. 
Stutzeb, Otto. 

1927. Streifzuege eines Geologen im Bebiete der Goajira-Indianer. Berlin. 
1934. Contribucion a la geologia de la Peninsula de la Goajira, en compila- 
ci6n de los estudios geol6gicos officiales en Colombia. 1917 a 1923. 
Vol. 2, pp. 211-243. Bogotd. 
Tanner, Hans. 

1951. Ethnologische Beobachtungen in der Guajira Halbinsel. Geogr. 
Helveticano, vol. 4. 
Weston, .Julian A. 

1937. The cactus eaters. London. 



The Braced-up Cliff at Pueblo Bonito ^ 



By Neil M. Judd 

Associate in Anthropology 
Smithsonian Institution 



[With 6 plates] 



The huge, detached section of sandstone cliff that long towered 
above the rear rooms of Pueblo Bonito finally collapsed January 22, 
1941. And when it fell, as the Bonitians feared, it did vast damage to 
their beautiful village. 

L. T. McKinney, custodian of Chaco Canyon National Monument at 
the time of the collapse, reported that the fall came with a tremendous 
roar at 3 :24 p.m. following intermittent rumblings of several hours' 
duration. Frost action was doubtless a contributing factor, since the 
winter of 1940-41 is said to have been unusually cold and wet in Chaco 
Canyon. Between March 1934 and December 1940 the Southwestern 
Monuments Monthly Reports recorded periodic measurements to show 
that the famous cliff was slowly settling but I find nothing relative to 
its tragic end. 

A mass of solid sandstone 150 feet long, 100 feet high, 20 to 30 feet 
thick, and weighing nearly 30,000 tons, the great cliff overhanging 
Pueblo Bonito was indeed a fearful, awe-inspiring body. It was a 
living, breathing thing ! As one stood to admire, it seemed actually 
to lean forward to engulf one (pi. 2, fig. 2) . 

We cannot know whether the occupants of Pueblo Bonito endowed 
the monster rock with any mystical quality, but they probably did not. 
They certainly recognized it as an ever-present danger but they prob- 
ably reasoned that it could be restrained or conquered more surely by 
human ingenuity and determination than by prayer and sacrifice to 
their gods. (In our examination we observed no trace of propitiatory 
offerings.) They conquered at least their fears of it by a succession 
of primitive engineering measures that succeeded far better than they 
could have hoped for, that has since commanded respectful attention 
from all thoughtful passers-by, that preserved the now-fallen cliff for 
several centuries and provided it with a most distinctive name, tsP 



^ Published by permission of the President of the National Geographic Society. The 
author was leader of the Society's Pueblo Bonito explorations, 1921-27. 

501 



502 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

hiya hani^ ffhi (Franciscan Fathers, 1912, vol. 1, p. 228), "the cliff 
braced up from beneath" (translation by Mrs. John Wetherill). 

The cliff-braced-up-from-beneath has been variously designated. 
Holsinger (MS., p. 14) says it was locally known as "the Elephant" in 
the days of the Hyde Exploring Expedition, 1896-1900. Nelson {in 
Pepper, 1920, p. 389) described it as "the shored-up Cliff Block." To 
Hewett it was "the balanced rock" in 1921 ; "the leaning cliff" a year 
later (Hewett, 1921, p. 18; 1922, p. 116). It has been "Threatening 
Eock" to personnel of the National Park Service and others since 1934. 
This latter name was entirely appropriate as long as the threat 
remained but one that will endure forever is the Navaho tsP hiya hanV 
ffhi. It is an individualistic, descriptive appellation that immediately 
and positively identifies Pueblo Bonito. There is no other place in 
all the Southwest to which this name applies. 

Throughout the length and breadth of the Navaho Reservation in 
Arizona and New Mexico every Navaho child knows of tseP Mya hanV 
ffhi. It is the kernel of many wintertime tales. In 1908 and 1909, on 
the edge of Monument Valley, Utah, long before Chaco Canyon had 
si^ecial significance for me, I heard of Pueblo Bonito as "the place 
where the cliff is braced up from beneath." Later I heard the name 
from Hopi who spoke Navaho and from the Apache. No other pre- 
historic ruin can boast an equally distinctive feature. 

The now-fallen mass rose 100 feet above its terrace platform. Its 
west end, on a magnetic-north line, stood 117 feet from the outer north- 
west corner of Room 189, and its east end, half again as far from the 
nearest point on the southward-curving exterior of the pueblo. Wind 
and storm in pre-Bonito times had undercut the softer stratum of the 
great cliff as much as 15 feet in places. It could topple forward upon 
the terraced village at any time and without warning. Hence the very 
understandable and continuing concern of the Bonitians. They fore- 
saw and undoubtedly delayed a major rockfall that finally took place 
years after they had abandoned the pueblo. It is possible, but quite 
unlikely, that they knew of a still earlier fall and one of even greater 
magnitude that happened long before they came to Chaco Canyon. 

The original settlers of Pueblo Bonito, the "Old Bonitians," had 
built some of their dwellings between and upon jagged masses of rock 
cast from the canyon wall long previously, but we may only guess as 
to the time when the later immigrants, the "Late Bonitians," first 
recognized the Braced-up Cliff as a constant danger. So, too, we may 
only guess the order of the several projects by which they sought to 
control the threat — constructional projects of such magnitude that 
any one of them might have defeated a less determined people. These 
later immigrants propped the undercut cliff with pine posts and bedded 
those posts in rubble ; they weatherproof ed the rubble with a facing of 



Smithsonian Report, l')58. Judd 



PLATE 1 







'we 







>^ 






X' 



.^' 



Pueblo Bonito and its Braced-up Cliff i'mm the air. Photographed by Col. Charles A. 
Lindbergh, 1929; reproduced by courtesy of Dr. A. V. Kidder and the Laboratory of 
Anthropology, Santa Fe, N. Mex. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Judd 



Plate 2 





1. The Braced-up Cliff in relation to Pueblo Bonito, showing the lower terrace, the upper 
stonework, and a pre-1877 rockfall. Photograph by Victor Mindeleff, 1887. Courtesy 
of the Bureau of American Ethnology. 




2. Standing free from the canyon wall, the Braced-up Cliff seemed actually to lean toward 
Pueblo Bonito. Photograph by Charles Martin, 1920. Courtesy of the National 
Geographic Society. 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Judd 



PLATE 3 




1. Part of the upper stonework with a ; _;iient in the foreground. Photograph by 

Deric O'Bryan, 1940. Reproduced through courtesy- of Dr. O'Brvan. 




2. The 



lower terrace masonry and the upper stonework. Photograph by Neil M. Judd, 
1922. Courtesy of the National Geographic Society. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Judd 



PLATE 4 



















<• 




'v 



•. YV>V.^*'i^^^ fit 



= So 



i5 * 

O ^ 




p 


m 


■ ';-; 


_0 






aj 


JD 




flj 





3 




Oh 


-o 


^-1-, 




o 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Judd 




PLATE 5 




^^_ 


^ 


!>> -:. 


^^^1 




Si :7 




.— 


<V 






-^ t: 


^1 


o 


2c^ 


^H 


rS 


^.y 






ti -c 


B^H 


U 


2 a. 


^^H 


<x 


E £ 


^^1 


3 


o 


B 




i^ 


^^^^H 


CC 


>> _ 


^^^^H 


u 


c « 


HH 


m 


re c 


^-1^8 


OJ 




n^M 


_c 


O oj 




"^ 


re z: 


j^h^ 


-13 


-C ., 


/ J 




U ^ 


^;^ 


.5 





u 



p c o\ 

_S ™ '^ 

o ^ -o 

fe -2 "o 

;- ^ 1— i 

'3 c ^ 

N -5 ^ 




u. 


o 


»-(-. 


u 


C 








<U 


t~-' 


OjO 


oo 


re 


oo 


6C 


f-H 


bti 




3 


fcc 




JJ 






^ 


i; 


■^ 


-o 


> 


_c 



P3 : - 



> 60 



u 



& f= 






Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Judd 



Plate 6 




1. Pueblo Huiuuj aitrr j;ili nl" the BracL-d-u[i ClilF, J.iinun v 11, 1^41, as 
east. Courtesv of the National Park Service. 



Ii'.jia the north- 




2. The damaged northeast section of the ruin. A conical mass of sandstone lies in Kiva G. 
Courtesv of the National Park Service. 



BRACED-TJP CLIFF, PUEBLO BONITO — JUDD 503 

masonry, slanted rearward to the overhang, and they built an enor- 
mous terrace to support the masonry. 

In 1920 when I first saw the Braced-up Cliff, portions of its buttress- 
ing walls still stood two-thirds their original height, but time and the 
elements had taken their toll (pi. 2, fig. 2) . Seekers after firewood had 
cut off or pried out every post within reach; sheep and goats had 
found shelter behind the standing masonry. Two years later, 1922, 
with our research program well under way, I cleared a portion of the 
lower terrace wall in order to ascertain the character of its stonework. 
That wall, which proved to be only a veneer, was composed of laminate 
sandstone blocks separated at intervals by single courses of dressed 
friable sandstone, the whole forming a variety of local masonry that I 
have elsewhere described as Type 3 (pi. 3, fig. 2). It identifies con- 
struction of the terrace with the heyday of Pueblo Bonito, during or 
shortly following the first major rebuilding program of the Late 
Bonitians. Behind the veneer, tons of sandstone fragments, laminate 
and friable, lie bedded in tons of adobe mud. 

More of this terrace facing was visible in 1887 when Victor Min- 
deleff photographed it (pi. 2, fig. 1). From what now remains, I be- 
lieve the platform to have been 18 or 20 feet high when intact and with 
an average width of 25 feet. Its facing, anchored at the east on an out- 
cropping of sandstone, extends thence almost due west 187 feet where 
the end is lost under a pre-1877 rockf all. Throughout its visible length 
the terrace front inclined cliffward perceptibly. Gathering the sand- 
stone fragments and mixing mud for the rubblework behind were an 
enormous task, and the need must have seemed very real and compel- 
ling to those who ordered it. 

In August of the following year, 1923, after we had discovered a 
hard, fairly smooth adobe pavement 2 feet below the north foundation 
of Koom 184, we promptly undertook to follow that pavement toward 
the terrace. To our surprise it continued to and under a sloping bank 
of mud mortar piled steplike against the terrace masonry (pi. 4, fig. 2) . 
At the time it seemed so obvious that this masonry must extend down 
to the pavement that I resisted the temptation to destroy part of the 
bank in order to be positive. Below the pavement is a deposit of hard 
clay, in part broken and granular ; above it, 4 feet of windblown sand 
containing clay pellets, silt streaks, and occasional potsherds. Al- 
though no indication of weakness was apparent in the 5-foot-wide 
section we laid bare, it may be that the terrace front had bulged some- 
what from pressure of the rubble behind and that the adobe bank was 
piled up against it in support. 

A second surprise was the difference in the stonework here and that 
in the section, only a few feet to the east, we had exposed the year 
before. The earlier exhibit resembled our third-type masonry, but 



504 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 




BRACED-UP CLIFF, PtJEBLO BONITO — JIJDD 505 

here it was nondescript, with more blocks of dressed friable sandstone 
and fewer of laminate. Nevertheless the two varieties identify the 
terrace front as entirely a work of the Late Bonitians. 

During July and August 1933, Prof. John Y. Keur of the Depart- 
ment of Biology, Long Island University, undertook a study of various 
factors pertaining to the Braced-up Cliff and subsequently filed a 
report with the National Park Service (Keur, MS., 1933). Through 
the courtesy of Hurst R. Julian, at that time custodian of Chaco 
Canyon National Monument, I received a copy of that report and, in- 
asmuch as it supplements my own field notes in several important 
respects, I shall refer to it for pertinent details not visible at the time 
of our observations which entailed no excavations other than those 
already mentioned. The Southwestern Monuments Monthly Report 
from October 1933 to the final number, June 1941, contains additional 
data from Professor Keur and Park Service personnel.^ 

Keur (MS., p. 4) dug pits at 50-foot intervals along the entire face 
of the terrace wall and found "near the base . . . several piles of 
mixed clay mortar." From this I infer that the abutting adobe bank 
exposed in 1923 by our 5-f oot-wide trench, although perhaps in reduced 
proportions and with occasional interruptions, continues the full length 
of the terrace. 

Keur's trenches atop the platform revealed that the rubblework 
behind the frontal veneer did not extend to the Braced-up Cliff, as I 
had assumed, but ended at about half the distance. A trench at right 
angles to the cliff and midway, where underlying walls are lacking, 
shows (ibid., p. 5) the 32-foot- wide platform to consist of 16 feet of 
rubble (the "stone pier" of the manuscript) at the front, a packed- 
clay embankment near the base of the cliff, and a sand fill between 
clay and rubble. At the surface the embarkment measured 6 feet wide 
and the sand fill 10 feet, but at a depth of 7 feet the sand occupied only 
a 3-foot space while the clay bank had widened to 13 feet. This adobe 
embankment is doubtless the one indicated on our plan (fig. 2), only 
two sections of which were visible at the time the field sketch was made. 
Professor Keur regards the wedge-shaped sand fill between clay bank 
and stone pier as a sort of cushion intended to absorb any pressure re- 
sulting from the forward tilt of the Braced-up Cliff. 

It will seem incredible to the reader, as it does to me, that the Late 
Bonitians could have had such confidence in the cohesive properties of 
Chaco Canyon mud as to believe a manmade bank of it could prevent 
collapse of the great cliff towering 100 feet above. And yet I can 
imagine no other motive that would have caused them to construct 
with such prodigious labor a hand-packed mud embankment, 13 feet 



* An earlier but cursory study of the braced cliff was made in 1916 by N. C. Nelson, 
of the American Museum of Natural History, and is briefed in Pepper (1920, pp. 389-390). 



506 AKNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 




pa 






a 
|3) 
"C 
o 
u 

M 

a 

2 

Geo 



Mo 

*-> a 
I- .2 

2-5 

C 3 
M o 



a 

3 
O 



T 

(14 



BRACED-UP CLIFF, PUEBLO BONITO — JTJDD 507 

wide at the bottom and 6 feet wide on top, 7 feet high, and at least 80 
feet long. 

But the Bonitians were not content with this achievement. Before, 
or perhaps after, completion of that embankment they midertook to 
support the undercut cliff directly by adding wooden props, rubble- 
work, and more adobe mud, concealing all behind a buttresslike con- 
struction I shall describe as the "upper stonework," in order to dis- 
tinguish it from the terrace and the terrace wall. 

This upper stonework likewise consisted of a masonry veneer screen- 
ing the mud and broken rock massed behind. But here the purpose of 
the hidden rubblework clearly was to replace the softer sandstone that 
had weathered away and thereby created an irregular, cavelike recess 
varying in depth from to 15 feet. The rubblework behind the 
veneer had filled every nook and hollow of the cave and crowded its 
roof, as evidenced by mud mortar still adhering. Unlike that of the 
lower terrace, however, the facing of this upper stonework is non- 
descript and utterly without character; its finished appearance is 
due solely to the fact that its component fragments were positioned 
with their wider edges to the fore. Built as a wall perhaps 5 feet 
thick at the base, standing fairly erect at the back but with a pro- 
nounced cliffward batter in front, this facing masonry reached to the 
cleavage plane that marks the top of the underlying softer stratum 
and there, reduced to a probable thickness of 2 feet, was fitted snugly 
against the overhang. Minimizing labor, the builders erected their 
buttressing stonework only where the undercutting was deepest, a 
30-foot section at the east end of the cliff and one twice as long at the 
west. The height approximated 15 feet (pi. 3, fig. 2). 

Behind the sloping exterior of the upper stonework are a number of 
casual partitions dividing the rubble fill and a dozen pine props, the 
feature that gave the Braced-up Cliff its Navaho name. Spaced ir- 
regularly, these props vary in diameter from 10 to 12 inches. We 
counted nine, one of them at the extreme rear of the cavity, and the 
empty holes of four more (fig. 2) . All but the two most inaccessible 
had been cut off as low as possible with steel axes or had been burned 
long ago and subsequently weathered (pi. 3, fig. 1). Each post 
slanted rearward to meet the roof of the cave ; each had been tightly 
packed about with rubblework. We sectioned Nos. 2 and 7 (JPB 
156, 157) which later were dated by Dr. A. E. Douglass at A.D. 1057 
and 1004. Douglass (1935) and Smiley (1951) both list these two 
specimens in their tables of tree-ring dates but do not specifically 
identify them. For Gila Pueblo in 1940, Deric O'Bryan sampled 
posts 2, 3, 4, 5 (?) , and 7 and obtained cutting dates of, respectively, 
1058, 1072, 1064, 1061, and 1073 (personal communication). The 15- 
year spread in these latter readings and a date 54 years earlier for 
Douglass' No. 7 suggests that each prop may have been the leftover 



508 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

end of a timber originally felled and brought in as a ceiling beam. 
All but No. 7 come within the known range of Late Bonitian construc- 
tional activity. 

Between and behind the posts, loosely built walls divide the cave 
into haphazard compartments, each filled with sandstone-and-adobe 
rubble. They are binlike structures, erected solely to confine the 
rubble fill while it was being packed in, cave-roof high. Mud alone 
lies under the rear middle of the rock and, again, under the east end. 
None of the stonework resembles that of the Old Bonitians. 

Blind old Plosteen Beyal (Judd, 1954, pp. 343-346), who came to 
Chaco Canyon as a boy about 1840, surprised me with the accuracy 
of his description of constructional details here. His only error, 
as far as I know, was in remembering the posts as oak rather than pine. 

There are those who hold that the veneered rubble under the 
Braced-up Cliff was designed to shield the basal zone of soft sand- 
stone from erosion and, to be sure, its presence undoubtedly did 
accomplish that function. But this fortunate consequence was ac- 
cidental rather than the result of deliberate planning. If protection 
from wind and water had been their sole intention the Bonitians 
assuredly would not have gone to the trouble of wedging in a dozen 
10-inch posts, each slanted against anticipated pressure from over- 
head. And they would have been content with a narrow protective 
wall under the outer edge of the overhang instead of the sturdy, 
slope-faced structure they actually erected. If erosion control were 
the only desideratum there would have been no need for the casual, 
rubble-filled bins behind the facing, or for the terrace and 80-foot 
adobe bank below the level of the cave floor. 

It was fear that drove the Late Bonitians to brace their cliff — a 
persistent fear lest 30,000 tons of sandstone topple upon them. If 
that same fear was shared in any degree by the actual founders of 
Pueblo Bonito we discovered no evidence of it. There is nothing 
behind the upper stonework or in the facing of the lower terrace 
that even remotely resembles Old Bonitian masonry. Nevertheless 
the danger latent in the overtowering cliff was there when the Old 
Bonitians began their ancient settlement and if they failed then to 
sense that danger it is probably because the great blocks of sand- 
stone previously fallen from the cliff were already concealed mider 
a blanket of windblown sand. 

A "boulder," thus distinguishing it from normal building stones, 
was utilized as it lay in the bench of an abandoned kiva 8 feet below the 
floor level of Old Bonitian Koom 83 (Pepper, 1920, p. 269) . Describ- 
ing the constructional confusion he found in the adjoining room, 85, 
Pepper (ibid., p. 282) notes that "a large sandstone boulder" likewise 
was incorporated in the wall of a west-end storage bin. Pepper cor- 
rectly identified partially razed Old Bonitian walls beneath the floor 



BRACED-UP CLIFF, PUEBLO BONITO — JUDD 509 

of Room 87 but did not dig deep enough to learn that the foundations 
of those old walls were built upon several large, irregl^lar blocks of 
friable sandstone that rest upon clean sand 9 feet 10 inches below the 
Room 87 floor level. 

The external north wall of this original Old Bonitian settlement, 
and nearest the cliff, was banked high with blown sand when the 
Late Bonitians arrived and erected a row of abutting dwellings. One 
of these latter, Room 207, has its floor about 6 feet higher than that 
of the adjoining Old Bonitian room, 298. An exploratory trench 
lengthwise of Room 298 revealed large sandstone blocks in situ and 
surrounded by clean sand from 1 to 2 feet beneath the floor. Both 
the east and south foundations stand, in part, directly upon some of 
these blocks, and the fact that their upper surfaces, in several ob- 
served instances, slope down and toward the north clearly identifies 
them with an early fall from the cliff. Part of that same fall under- 
lies the northwest corner of Old Bonitian Room 296. 

Kiva N is a second-type Late Bonitian ceremonial chamber built 
against the south wall of Old Bonitian Room 83, previously men- 
tioned. In 1923 the north arc of Kiva N stood 9 feet 3 inches high ; 
we estimated its original ceiling height at 9 feet 6. Four feet 7 inches 
below its floor or 14 feet below the estimated ceiling height at ground 
level, we came upon a massive section of friable sandstone, its upper 
cleavage plane slanting downward and to the northeast, as with those 
under Room 298. 

There can be no doubt that these several occurrences of native sand- 
stone deep under the floors of Old Bonitian houses represent collapse 
of a portion of the canyon wall long before the village site was 
permanently occupied. Spreading cliffward and fanwise from Kiva 
N, these buried fragments apparently broke away from approxi- 
mately the same section of cliff as did the next major fall, that which 
Mindeleff photographed in 1887 and which shows so clearly on Lind- 
bergh's 1929 airview (pi. 1). 

It was this latter fall, occurring perhaps in the last half of the 
12th century after the Late Bonitians had left the valley, that crushed 
the west end of the broad terrace they had built with such great 
expectations and that hurled several massive chunks of sandstone 
dangerously close to their high north wall (pi. 5). The accumula- 
tion of broken masonry and windblown sand that had collected here 
before the hurtled blocks came to rest seems so scant (pi. 4, fig. 1) as 
to bring the incident almost within reach of recorded history in Chaco 
Canyon. Simpson (1850) had nothing to say of these farflung pieces 
when he entered Room 14b and carved his name on the wall plaster 
August 28, 1849, but he must have seen them. 

W. H. Jackson saw the great blocks in 1877, for he remarked that 
the rockfall of which they are a part occupied almost all the space 



510 AJSTNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

between the cliff and the north wall of Pueblo Bonito (Jackson, 1878, 
p. 442) . They were still there, clean and sharp-edged, when Mindeleff 
photographed them 10 years later (pi. 2, tig. 1; pi. 5, fig. 1). Com- 
parison of Mindeleff 's 1887 views and that of Martin (pi. 2, fig. 2) 
shows that many of the scattered fragments had disappeared before 
1920. Because of their accessibility, it is reasonable to suppose that 
these missing ones had been split and broken into smaller pieces and 
used in the several buildings Eichard Wetherill constructed locally 
between 1897 and 1910.^ 

Our Bonitians feared the Braced-up Cliff. All the diverse features 
they built beneath it — pine props, rubblework, buttressing masonry, 
and banked adobe — were underpinnings designed to prevent the cliff 
from toppling upon their village. Their fears were amply justified 
as we now know from the destruction caused when the giant cliff 
finally gave way in midafternoon of January 22, 1941. House-sized 
fragments and comitless tons of lesser pieces hurtled forward and laid 
waste the spectacular northeast quarter of Pueblo Bonito, including 
its outside wall from Koom 189 south and east to Koom 182 and in- 
wardly to Kooms 99, 70, 266, 263, and 258. A 2-ton block of sandstone 
half fills I\jva G (pi. 6). Fortunately, the three- and four-story 
north wall of Kooms 14b, 299, and 297 appears to have escaped with 
only minor damage. 

The Braced-up Cliff has fallen, but our data show that two other 
major, if less destructive, falls occurred previously and that both came 
from the section of canyon wall next on the west. This section, which 
still stands and still offers a daily threat to the empty ruin, apparently 
gave the Bonitians little if any concern. They did nothing to support 
it but, on the other hand, built several houses and a kiva at its very 
base. Herein lies a new and unsuspected danger to Pueblo Bonito. 

REFERENCES 
Douglass, A. E. 

1935. Dating Pueblo Bonito and other ruins of the Southwest. Nat. Geogr. 
Soc., Contr. Techn. Pap., Pueblo Bonito Ser., No. 1. 
Hewett, Edgab L. 

1921. The Chaco Canyon and its ancient monuments. Art and Archaeol., 

vol. 11, Nos. 1-2. 

1922. The Chaco Canyon in 1921. Art and Archaeol., vol. 14, No. 3. 
HOLSINGEB, S. J. 

Report on the prehistoric ruins of Chaco Canyon, New Mexico. Or- 
dered by General Land Office Letter "P", December 18, 1900. (MS. 
dated Phoenix, Ariz., Dec. 5, 1901, in General Land Office, Wash- 
ington, D.C.) 



» The one fall for which we have a date is that reported by Frank McNltt (1957, p. 111). 
In the autumn of 1895 while Richard Wetherill and the S. L. Palmer family were camped 
at the base of the cliff Immediately north of Pueblo Bonito a mass of sandstone dropped 
from above and narrowly missed members of the party. Throughout the years there may 
have been other, equally close escapes. 



BRACED-UP CLIFF, PUEBLO BONITA — JUDD 511 

Jackson, W. H. 

1878. Report on the ancient ruins examined in 1875 and 1877. 10th Ann. 
Rep. U.S. Geol. and Geogr. Surv. Terr. . . . for the year 1876, pp. 
411-450. 
JuDD, Neil M. 

1954. The material culture of Pueblo Bonito. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 
124. 
Keue, John Y. 

A study of primitive Indian engineering methods pertaining to 
Threatening Rock. (MS. dated September 1933 in the National 
Park Service, Washington, D.C.) 
McNiTT, Feank. 

1957. Richard Wetherill : Anasazi. 
Nelson, N. C. 

1920. Notes on Pueblo Bonito. In Pueblo Bonito, by George H. Pepper, An- 
throp. Pap. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 27, pp. 381-390. 
Peppek, George H. 

1920. Pueblo Bonito. Anthrop. Pap. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 27. 
Simpson, James H. 

1850. Journal of a military reconnaissance from Santa Fe, New Mexico, to 
the Navaho country ... in 1849. Rep. Secretary of War, 31st Cong., 
1st Sess., Senate Ex. Doc. No. 64, pp. 56-139. 

Smilet, Teeah L. 

1951. A summary of tree-ring dates from some Southwestern archeological 
sites. Univ. Arizona Bull., vol. 22, No. 4. Lab. of Tree-ring Res., 
Bull. 5. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as 
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 

492520—59 34 



A Century of American Indian Exhibits in 
the Smithsonian Institution 



By John C. Ewers 

Assistant Director 

Museum of History and Technology 

Smithsonian Institution 



[With 8 plates] 

The opening of a modernized hall of North American Indians on 
December 8, 1957, had a special significance in the history of the 
Smithsonian Institution. It marked the end of the first century of 
the Smithsonian's experience in interpreting the liistoric American 
Indian tribes to the public through museum exhibits. During this 
century these exhibits evolved from a small cabinet of curiosities 
viewed by a few thousand persons to an interpretation of the ways 
of life of the Indians of the hemisphere seen by millions of museum 
visitors. Changing methods of presenting the subject over the years 
reflected the immense growth of the collections, the special skills and 
interests of staff members, and the increase of historical and scientific 
knowledge of the Indians. Furthermore, the experience gained in 
planning Indian exhibits at the Smithsonian Institution and for the 
Smithsonian at great international expositions contributed signifi- 
cantly to the development of ethnology as a science. 

INDIAN CURIOSITIES IN THE SMITHSONIAN BUILDING 

In the year 1857 the National Cabinet of Curiosities, which for 16 
years had been housed in the Patent Office, was transferred to the 
Smithsonian Institution. In his first report of progress made in in- 
stalling these national collections in the then new Smithsonian Build- 
ing, Secretary Joseph Henry wrote : "This has already been done by 
Mr. Varden for the etlmological collections at the west end of the 
hall." (Ann. Eep. Smithsonian Inst., 1858, p. 56.) It is certain, 
therefore, that American Indian materials were included among the 
Smithsonian's first museum exhibits. 

Sixty-six-year-old John Varden (pi. 1, fig. 1), who installed these 
exhibits, was not an ethnologist. At that time there was no trained 
ethnologist in this country. But Varden was no novice at displaying 

513 



514 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Indian artifacts to the public. In 1836 he had opened his Washing- 
ton Museum, the first museum in the Nation's Capital, as "a rational 
place of amusement." Five years later he turned over his collection 
to the National Institute, and he served as curator of the enlarged 
national collections while they were displayed in the Patent Office. 
He was the logical person to plan and install the collections in the 
Smithsonian. No other man in Washington could have matched his 
long experience in museum work. 

The original accession book of Varden's Washington Museum, pre- 
served in the Smithsonian Archives, reveals that, like other museum 
proprietors of his time, Varden had been an omnivorous collector of 
rare and curious objects in the fields of natural history, histoiy, and 
art. Among his many and varied specimens he listed some 31 Amer- 
ican Indian artifacts. They composed the nucleus of the National 
Institute's Indian collection which came to the Smithsonian in 1857. 

Although Varden made two collecting trips westward as far as 
New Orleans and St. Louis in the 1830's, he obtained his Indian mate- 
rials from local collectors and travelers rather than from the Indians 
directly. His knowledge of the specimens was limited to the informa- 
tion these men gave him. A few of the artifacts were tribally iden- 
tified, such as a "War Club of the Crank-a-war (Karankawa) Indians 
of Texas," and "Three Bowles made by the Indians of the Six Na- 
tions in Alabama" (Choctaw). But a larger number were of a more 
nebulous origin, such as: "A Pair of Indian Moccasins," "Indian 
Knife Scabbard from Canady," and "2 Pipe Stems from the Old 
Stock of General Clark of St. Louis, from the Rockey Mountains." ^ 

A description of the exhibits in the Smithsonian Institution, appear- 
ing in the 1859 guidebook, indicates that the American Indian ex- 
hibits then occupied one case and portions of two others located on 
the upper galleries at the west end of the gi-eat hall. (PI. 1, fig. 2.) 

One case must have been quite completely filled with a North Ameri- 
can Indian miscellany "including Head Dresses . . . Canoes . . . 
Feather Blankets . . . Water-Baskets . . . Indian Pillow, stuffed 
with Buffalo hair . . . Bows and Arrows . . . Pipes, etc. etc." 
(Rhees, 1859, p. 69) . This group of specimens undoubtedly included a 
number of artifacts made by the Indians of California and the north- 
west coast collected by the United States Exploring Expedition under 
the command of Lt. Charles Wilkes, USN, during its long sea voyage 
in 1838-42. Titian Peale's catalog of the ethnological collections made 
by that expedition, preserved in the division of ethnology of the U.S. 
National Museum, indicates that many of the Indian specimens were 



* These pieces are of particular historical Interest. William Clark, who will always 
be remembered as the courageous coleader of the Lewis and Clark Expedition, had founded 
the first museum west of the Mississippi River in a buildinie attached to his residence In 
St. Louis in 1818. Clark died in 1838, and the fate of his excellent Indian collection has 
been a matter of specalatlon. 



AMERICAN INDIAN EXHIBITS — EWERS 515 

no more precisely identified than were Varden's. They comprised such 
items as a "Bhmket made of feathers by the natives of California" and 
"Wooden masks carved by the natives of the north west coast of 
America." 

Some other Indian specimens in the Smithsonian collections at that 
time had been collected by Army exploring expeditions in the trans- 
Mississippi west. The so-called "Indian Pillow, stuffed with Buffalo 
hair" was almost certainly a Blackfoot pad saddle obtained by Capt. 
Howard Stansbury on his overland explorations to the Great Salt 
Lake in 1851.2 

A second case contained a number of Indian artifacts as well as bats, 
minerals, woods, and other natural history specimens collected by 
Navy Lt. W. E. Herndon during his explorations of the Amazon River 
and its tributaries in 1851-52. A group of South American Indian 
specimens, including some weapons from the Indians of Tierra del 
Fuego collected by the Wilkes Expedition, shared a third case with 
weapons and other etlinological materials from southeast Asia. 

Although the guidebook introduced the ethnological collections as 
"one of the most extensive and curious in the world," the American 
Indian portion of those collections was actually quite small. The 
tribal origins as well as the true functions of many of the specimens 
were unknown. As curiosities these objects comprised a limited sam- 
pling of handicrafts made and used by American Indians. 

ENLARGING THE COLLECTIONS 

Secretary Henry realized the inadequacy of the American Indian 
collections and took vigorous steps to add to their numbers both more 
and better-documented pieces. Through personal contacts he encour- 
aged men who resided in or near the Indian country or who planned 
to travel among the Indians to collect for the Smithsonian. One of 
those men was James Swan, secretary to the first congressional delegate 
from Washington Territory, who became a pioneer student of the 
Makah and Haida Indians and an industrious collector of northwest 
coast Indian materials. Another was young Robert Kennicott of 
Chicago, who explored the Canadian Northwest and enlisted the aid 
of Hudson's Bay Co. traders in collecting both vocabularies and arti- 
facts among the then little-known northern Athapascan tribes. 

In 1863 Joseph Henry had printed Instructions for Research rela- 
tive to the Ethnology and Philology of America (prepared by George 
Gibbs), earnestly soliciting the collaboration of "all officers of the 
United States government, and travellers, or residents who may have 
in their power to render any assistance." These instructions, written 
for the Smithsonian by George Gibbs, an experienced field collector 



* This specimen is referred to as an "Indian Pillow" in the old accession records. 



516 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

among the Indians of the Northwest, stressed both the urgency of 
collecting Indian materials and the need for accurate identifications 
of the artifacts obtained. Gibbs wrote : 

... It is especially important to make immediate collections, as many articles 
are of perishable nature, and the tribes themselves are passing away or ex- 
changing their own manufactures for those of the white race. It is hardly 
necessary to specify any of particular interest, as almost every thing has its 
value in giving completeness to a collection ... In making these collections, 
care should be taken to specify the tribes from which they are obtained, and 
where any doubt may exist, the particular use to which each is applied. (Gibbs, 
1863, p. 4.) 

Cooperation was enthusiastically offered by men in the Army and 
Navy, Indian agents and agency doctors, consular employees in Latin 
America, and by missionaries and other individuals. Especially im- 
portant were the contributions of field officers of the Army Medical 
Corps, men of scientific training and interests, who, while stationed at 
isolated frontier forts in the West, devoted their spare time to collect- 
ing artifacts from Indians whose confidence they enjoyed. A decade 
before the battle of the Little Big Horn these men were collecting 
among the warlike Sioux, Cheyenne, Kiowa, and Comanche of the 
Great Plains. Before the Apache Wars in the Southwest they were 
collecting Apache weapons, costumes, and handicrafts. In 1869 the 
Army Medical Museum began to transfer these Indian materials, 
obtained by Army doctors at many field posts, to the Smithsonian. 

The approach of the great Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia, 
which was planned for 1876, offered still another major opportunity 
for the Smithsonian to enlarge its North iVmerican Indian collections. 
The Indian Bureau of the Department of the Interior and the Smith- 
sonian Institution received an appropriation to develop a joint display 
of the ethnology and archeology of the United States at that expo- 
sition. Since the specimens were to be transferred to the Smithsonian 
after the exposition's close, field collecting for this display was con- 
fined primarily to "those parts of the United States which were not 
already properly represented" in the museum. (Ann. Rep. Smith- 
sonian Inst., 1876, p. 60.) 

The Smithsonian still had no etlinologist on its staff, but a number 
of experienced and able men were active collectors of Indian materials 
for this popular exposition. Swan collected on the Northwest coast, 
Stephen Powers among the Indians of California, Maj. John W. 
Powell in the Great Basin, and Governor Arny in the Southwest. 
Prof. Otis T. Mason of Columbian (now George Washington) Uni- 
versity was engaged to prepare a pampMet listing over 600 classes 
of artifacts desired for the exhibition. Copies of this pamphlet were 
sent by the Indian Bureau to all its field agents and by the Smith- 
sonian Institution to its correspondents. The response was hearten- 
ing. Among the many small but important collections received was 



AMERICAN INDIAN EXHIBITS — EWERS 517 

one of Nez Perce artifacts collected by Indian Agent John B. Monteith 
more than a year before Chief Joseph's masterful retreat made the 
name and the courage of that tribe known throughout the civilized 
world. 

Some of the most popular exhibits at the Centennial Exposition 
were the tall Haida totem poles, collected by James Swan, and a 
buffalo hide tipi, the home of an Arapaho Indian family, obtained in 
the field by Vincent Colyer, talented artist and secretary of the Board 
of Indian Commissioners. (PI. 2, fig. 2.) 

By the time the exhibit materials from the Philadelphia exposition 
reached Washington the Smithsonian certainly did possess one of 
the most extensive North American Indian collections in the world. 
Its Northwest coast and Plains Indian materials were outstanding, 
although some of the tribes of those regions still were very poorly 
represented. The collections were weak in artifacts from the historic 
tribes east of the Mississippi, from the Indians of the Southwest, from 
the Eskimos and the majority of the Canadian Indian tribes, and 
from the very great majority of the Indian tribes living south of the 
United States. 

TECHNOLOGICAL EXHIBITS IN THE ARTS AND INDUSTRIES BUILDING 

By 1877 the very wealth of potential exhibit materials possessed 
by the Smithsonian Institution had become a handicap to effective 
exhibition. Collections in the natural sciences, in archeology, and 
in the ethnology of Old World peoples had also grown rapidly. It 
was impossible to interpret these subjects in addition to history and 
art within the limited confines of the Smithsonian Building. A new 
and larger museum was needed, and until that structure (the Arts and 
Industries Building, which stands east of the Smithsonian Building) 
was available, little improvement of exhibits was possible. 

Meanwhile, the Smithsonian appointed its first specialists in an- 
thropology to supervise the work of accessioning and cataloging the 
large and growing collections and to begin the systematic classification 
of the materials on hand. In 1876 Dr. Charles Rau, of New York, 
was appointed to classify and arrange the anthropological collections 
in the museum, and Frank H. Cushing became his assistant in 
ethnology. 

In 1879 the Bureau of (American) Ethnology was established and 
its vigorous head, Maj. John Wesley Powell, declared its mission "to 
organize anthropologic research in America." He inaugurated an ex- 
tensive program of fieldwork in the Southwest which led to the en- 
richment of the museum's previously limited Pueblo Indian collec- 
tions. Cushing and Col. James Stevenson assumed very active roles 
in this Southwestern research. Meanwhile, Powell and his staff were 
engaged in a series of classic projects which did not involve the study 



518 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

of museum specimens but which were of basic importance to the 
scientific progress of American Indian studies — the classification of 
North American Indian languages, the identification of Indian tribes 
and villages, the history of Indian land cessions, and the estimate 
of early Indian population. 

These classification studies were paralleled in the museum by 
equally intense efforts to describe and classify American Indian arti- 
facts on the basis of their methods of manufacture, form, and func- 
tion. The emphasis given to comparative technology by both arche- 
ologists and ethnologists during this period reflected their efforts to 
establish anthropology on a sound scientific basis by applying the 
taxonomic principles of the natural sciences. It also reflected the 
biologist's interests in evolution by extending that principle to a search 
for the origin and early development of man's inventions. 

During the 1880's anthropologists in the museum experimented 
with primitive tools to determine how Indians worked stone, bone, 
shell, and copper. They analyzed the techniques Indians employed 
in dressing skin, weaving baskets, and making pottery, as well as in 
making fire. They classified American Indian bows and arrows, 
harpoons, throwing sticks, knives, pipes, cradles, fire-making ap- 
paratus, and other artifacts in the collections. The major publica- 
tions of the museum anthropologists during the 1880's and 1890's were 
concerned with problems of comparative technology. 

This technological approach, which absorbed the interests of 
ethnologists in the museum laboratories, was adopted by them in 
planning and arranging the American Indian exhibits for the public. 
Two principal types of exhibits predominated. One of them illus- 
trated the great variety of forms of a single class of objects that ex- 
isted among the Indians — whether the subject was bows and arrows, 
harpoons, throwing sticks, pottery, textiles, sculpture, pipes, or neck- 
laces. Dense concentrations of objects of each class proved an orderly 
method of displaying the greater part of the museum's vast Indian 
collections. The visitor could not but be impressed with the wealth 
of the museum in American Indian materials. If he tarried to view 
the exhibits in some detail, he learned that the Indians were clever 
workers in a variety of primitive industries and the tribal distribu- 
tion of these traits. In this technological arrangement the handi- 
crafts of each tribe were widely scattered. It was impossible to de- 
termine from these exhibits how any Indian tribe lived. (PI. 3, fig. 1.) 

The second type of exhibit purported to show the evolution of com- 
mon tools, such as those used for cutting, sawing, drilling, etc. These 
exhibits portrayed assumed technological advances, from the simple 
to the complex, without regard for the history of the actual objects 
selected. (PI. 3, fig. 2.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Ewers 



Plate 1 




1. John Varden, who installed the exhibits in 1857. 




2. The first American Indian exhibits occupied cases on the upper galleries. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Ewers 



Plate 2 




1. Cases cuiitaluL'd cusuimcd figures as well as aiutaeit 




2. An Arapaho tip! and Haida totem poles were feature exhibits. 
American Indian exhibits at the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia, 1876. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Ewers 



Plate 3 




1. Comparative exhibits of ceramics. 




2. Exhibit suggesting the evolution of tools. 
Exhibits in the Arts and Industries Building. 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Ewers 



Plate 4 




1. Small groups at the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago, 1893. 




2. Small groups m tne Arts and industries Building in the 1890's. 
Early life-sized groups. 



Smithsonian Report. 1938. — Ewers 



Plate 5 




1. William ?I. Holmes's design for the group, c. 1900. 




1 I lie ^loup as it appears today. 
The Polar Eskimo group. 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Ewers 



Plate 6 




1. Hopi kachina dolls. 




2. Plains Indian specimens. 
Early exhibits in the Natural History Building. 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Ewers 



KRCHINfl DOLLS HELP HOP! CHILDREN 

TO LEBRN TO RECOGNIZE THE TRIBAL GODS 



Plate 7 

-'««■> IIP 




1. Hopi kachina dolls. 




2. The Buffalo— staff of life of the Plains Indians. 
Modernized exhibits in the Natural History Building. 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Ewers 



Plate 8 








2. Diorama portraying Lucayan Indians "discovering" Columbus. 
New groups in the Natural History Building. 



AMERICAN INDIAN EXHIBITS — EWERS 519 

Methodical arrangement of the ethnological exhibits along these 
lines was begun by Otis T. Mason shortly after he became curator of 
ethnology in 1884. Mason was one of the most able students of 
American Indian technology. His writings are classics in the field. 
With Mason in charge, the Smithsonian announced its plan "to con- 
tinue this system in the remaining portions of the collections, with the 
view of better unfolding through the arts of savagery the origin and 
development of civilization." (Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst, 1885, 
p. 32.) 

DEVELOPMENT OF THE LIFE-SIZED GROUP 

As early as 1870 the Smithsonian Institution had employed life- 
sized wax figures to display the costumes worn by the Arctic explorer 
Dr. E. K. Kane and members of his party. A number of costumed 
figures were shown in the Indian exhibits at the Centennial Exposi- 
tion in 1876. (PI. 2.) Thereafter, individual life-sized figures were 
installed in the museum to display costumes, to show the characteris- 
tics of the different races, and to illustrate the methods of use of 
weapons and instruments and the process of various arts and handi- 
crafts. 

In the early nineties, under the direction of William H. Holmes, 
who combined to a remarkable degree the talents of an artist with 
a knowledge of the American Indians, the Smithsonian Institution 
began to experiment with a new type of exhibit, a grouping of 
two or more costumed figures to provide a lifelike portrayal of 
some of the typical activities of a particular Indian tribe. The first 
series of these exhibits was prepared under the direction of Holmes 
for exhibition at the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 
1893. Holmes himself designed a group of Powhatan Indians 
quarrying material for the manufacture of stone implements. The 
figures were modeled, then cast in plaster by the Washington sculptor 
U. S. J. Dunbar, and wigs were added. Additional groups were made 
to portray typical activities of the Zuni, Navaho, Kiowa, Sioux, Hupa, 
and Kutchin Indians for exhibition at the 1893 fair. Although 
these groups were placed in small, poorly lighted cases, they proved 
to be very popular exhibits. The viewer gained the impression 
that he was actually watching Indians at work or play. These 
groups were placed on exhibition in the Smithsonian after the close 
of the Chicago Fair. ( PI. 4. ) 

By 1901, when the Smithsonian Institution exhibited at the Pan- 
American Exposition in Buffalo, Holmes had further perfected the 
life-sized group. In addition to several smaller ones, he presented 
two groups housed in roomy 12-by-8-foot cases. These he termed 
"family groups" composed of men, women, and children with their 
appropriate clothing and accessories engaged in typical group activi- 



520 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

ties. One group portrayed a Tehuelche Indian family of Patagonia 
packing its belongings on horseback in preparation for moving 
camp. The most appealing of these new groups showed a family of 
Polar Eskimos of Smith Sound, Greenland. In the foreground a 
young man bent over a very small seal he had clubbed at a hole in 
the ice. Beyond him stood the members of his family with their 
dog team and sled. The father was pointing to the small seal and 
laughing heartily because the boy had called for the dog team to 
bring home such a little animal. Not only did this exhibit illustrate 
the details of Eskimo material culture, but the episode selected 
portrayed clearly the good humor of these hardy people who had 
found solutions to the many problems of living on the northernmost 
frontier of human habitation. After more than 50 years' "run" 
at the Smithsonian Institution this dramatic display is still a favorite 
of museum visitors. It is undoubtedly one of the great masterpieces 
of museum exhibition. (PI. 5.) 

THE CULTURE AREA CONCEPT 

The opportunities to interpret the American Indian to large 
crowds of busy sightseers at the World's Fairs offered a stimulating 
challenge to the Smithsonian staff. They were not content merely 
to duplicate existing exhibits for display at these great expositions. 
Rather they sought new approaches to the presentation of the 
subject which would result not only in the development of attractive, 
eye-catching exhibit miits such as the life-sized groups, but would 
make the entire subject more meaningful to the public. 

When Otis T. Mason was called upon to plan the American Indian 
exhibition for the World's Columbian Exposition to be held in 
Chicago in 1893, he decided to organize the exhibit around the 
linguistic map of North America which had recently been published 
by the Bureau of American Ethnology. The compilation of that 
map had occupied scholars of the Bureau and a host of collaborators 
for 12 years. Its completion was an important landmark in the 
history of American Indian studies. Never before had an effort 
been made to organize an exhibit that would combine tribes, lan- 
guages, and artifacts in one presentation. 

For several months Mason struggled with the difficulties presented by 
this challenge. Some of the linguistic stocks of North America could 
not be interpreted through objects because there were no artifacts 
made by the speakers of those languages in the Museum's collections. 
Either the tribes had become nearly extinct or their ways of life 
had become so modified through white contact that it would be 
impossible to obtain a group of objects that would portray their 
traditional customs. Some of the most prominent linguistic stocks 
were represented by tribes spread out over vast areas in quite different 



AMERICAN INDIAN EXHIBITS — EWERS 621 

geographical environments so that the contrasts in material traits 
among tribes of the same language stock were greater than those 
between neighboring tribes speaking quite different languages. 
Thus the Shoshonean- speaking Hopi resembled the other Pueblo 
tribes of the southwestern desert who spoke different languages, 
much more closely in their way of life than they did the Shoshonean- 
speaking Comanche buffalo hunters of the Great Plains. 

Mason compared the distribution of traits of Indian material 
culture with Dr. C. Hart Merriam's biogeographic map of North 
America published by the Department of Agriculture and found 
that the distribution of artifacts corresponded much more closely 
with it than with Powell's linguistic map. He concluded that "the 
materialistic activities were controlled by the environment." 

So in the exhibit at Chicago Otis T. Mason organized the exhibits 
around this new principle — the influence of environment upon 
American Indian life, grouping the exhibits by what he termed 
"culture areas." In briefly describing this display in the Annual 
Report of the U.S. National Museum for 1893 Mason wrote : 

Enough was displayed ... to bring into prominence the statement that the 
earth, with its climate and natural resources, has much to say about the 
material and the form of human industries. Blood and language and social 
life and religion have their say also in the arts of life, but their influence is 
superadded, and not fundamental. (Ann. Rep. U.S. Nat. Mus., 1893, pp. 127-129.) 

In a popular lecture at the Smithsonian on May 2, 1896, entitled 
"Influence of Environment upon Human Industries or Arts," Otis 
T. Mason grouped the historic American Indians and Eskimos into 
18 culture areas on the basis of common environments providing 
common plant and animal resources for the use of Indians for food, 
clothing, shelter, arts and crafts, implements and utensils, and means 
of travel. He proceeded to outline the basic natural resources and 
typical artifacts made and used by the Indians of each of these 
culture areas. (Mason, 1896.) 

By 1897 Mason was busy rearranging a portion of the American 
Indian exhibits in the Arts and Industries Building in accordance with 
his new principle of "culture areas." In 1901 Mason's colleague at the 
Smithsonian, William H. Holmes, in a closely reasoned paper on 
"Classification and Arrangement of the Exhibits of an Anthropologi- 
cal Museum," published a map of North American Indian culture 
areas and advocated a culture-area organization for the arrangement 
of exhibits in museums of anthropology. (Holmes, 1903, p. 267.) 

Today the concept of "culture areas" is generally accepted by 
ethnologists as a basis for classifying the ways of life of primitive 
peoples. Yet very few anthropologists are aware that this important 
classificatory tool of their profession was discovered by Otis T. Mason 
during his experience in planning the Smithsonian's exhibits for the 



522 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

World's Columbian Exposition. By many it has been credited to 
Clark Wissler of the American Museum of Natural History, who 
elaborated and refined the principle in his widely read work "The 
American Indian," first published in 1917.^ 

However, both Mason and Holmes were greatly interested in the 
study of technology. Neither of them was willing to abandon the 
earlier type of exhibit of comparative technology. Holmes proposed 
the culture area as "the first and most important method" of exhibit 
organization, but he suggested that it be supplemented by synoptic 
exhibits illustrating the evolution of tools, textile arts, etc. New com- 
parative technological exhibits also were developed. In 1904 several 
cases of Indian baskets were added to the exhibits following the 
publication of Mason's classic treatise on North American Indian 
basketry. 

By that time the museum had again outgrown its quarters. So 
crowded were the exhibit halls in the Arts and Industries building 
that there were scarcely passegeways for visitors between the cases. 
Much of the effectiveness of the life-sized groups was lost in the 
overcrowded halls. Large portions of the study collections had to be 
stored in other buildings. A new building was sorely needed to house 
the Smithsonian's exhibits and study collections in natural history and 
anthropology. 

With the completion of the new Natural History Building on the 
north side of the Mall, the department of anthropology was moved to 
new and more spacious quarters. By the summer of 1911 most of the 
ethnological exhibits had been installed. The American Indian 
materials were arranged in two adjoining halls on the first floor pro- 
viding nearly 15,000 square feet of display space. In accordance with 
Holmes's recommendations of a decade earlier, the life-sized groups 
were placed in line down the centers of the halls allowing room for 
visitors to view them through all four of their glassed sides. In rows 
and alcoves of cases flanking the life-sized groups were placed objects 
from the culture areas typified by the life-sized groups. Intermixed 
with these culture-area exhibits were series of cases illustrating com- 
parative teclmology. 

RECENT MODERNIZATION OF EXHIBITS 

For nearly 40 years after the American Indian exhibits were in- 
stalled in the Natural History Building no major changes were made 
in these displays. Meanwhile the attendance at the museum tripled 
and the number of school groups who came to the museum to see how 
Indians lived greatly increased. The life-sized groups retained their 



* wissler reduced Mason's 18 American Indian culture areas to 15 and renamed most 
of them. However, in his earliest published classification of North American Indian 
culture areas, be acknowledged bis debt to Mason. (Wissler, 1914, p. 449.) 



AMERICAN INDIAN EXHIBITS — EWERS 523 

interest for children and adults — but few people ventured into the 
crowded alcoves to view the thousands of artifacts displayed in cases 
inadequately illuminated by natural light. Hundreds of near dupli- 
cate specimens — 964 examples of Pueblo pottery, more than 200 Porno 
baskets, 119 Hopi kachina dolls — ranged on shelves or hung in layers 
within the cases, presenting the monotonous appearance of visual 
storage rather than the lively attractiveness of educational exhibits. 
(PI. 6.) 

Meanwhile, also, great strides had been made in the use of artificial 
lighting, color, and design in store window and commercial displays — • 
tecliniques that could be readily adapted to museum exhibition. At 
the same time research on American Indian cultures had shed new light 
upon the history and functions of artifacts. 

Gradually the dissatisfaction with existing exhibits grew among 
visitors and staff members alike. It became increasingly apparent 
that the old exhibits could not be brought up to date simply by making 
minor changes here and there. It was not a problem of polishing and 
repairing the old Kolls Royce. The entire exhibition needed stream- 
lining. 

Planning of a complete revision of the American Indian halls was 
begun in the 1940's. After World War II, A. Joseph Andrews and 
John E. Anglim prepared two miniature dioramas in the anthro- 
pological laboratory under the writer's scientific supervision. At a 
scale of 11/^ inches to a foot these exhibits portrayed typical camps of 
the Yahgan Indians of Tierra del Fuego and of the Yosemite Indians 
of California, showing the homes and activities of these people in 
their appropriate natural settings. These dioramas were temporarily 
installed, one at each end of Hall 11 in association with revised exhibits 
of artifacts from their respective cultures. Light boxes were added 
to the old wall cases and a few carefully selected specimens were in- 
stalled against backgrounds of contrasting colors. A marked improve- 
ment was apparent in these sections of the hall. 

In 1954 funds were made available to completely modernize the 
entire hall, employing new cases and artificial lighting throughout. 
There was never any question of the basic organization of exhibits. 
Mason's fundamental concept of culture areas had gained general 
acceptance. Even writers of children's books had adopted it in their 
descriptions of American Indian cultures, devoting separate chapters 
to the Indians of the Woodlands, of the Plains, of the Northwest coast, 
and others. In our new exhibits children would see the typical arti- 
facts they had read about and in the same cultural contexts. In the 
two halls available plans were made to interpret the historic cultures 
of the native peoples of the Americas, beginning with the Eskimos of 
the far north and continuing geographically southward to the Fuegians 
at the southernmost extremity of South America. The halls were 



524 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

subdivided into alcoves, each devoted to a culture, and the exhibits 
were planned to illustrate the ingenuity of the people in using the 
natural resources of their environment for food, clothing, shelter, 
weapons, household utensils, religious paraphernalia, and the produc- 
tion of arts and crafts. ( PI. 7. ) 

The majority of the life-sized groups were completely refurbished 
and reinstalled in larger cases against monochrome backgrounds and 
were dramatically lighted. A new life-sized group was developed 
around a full-scale Arapaho tipi. Six dioramas portrayed in mini- 
ature interesting aspects of Indian life. Of these the scene showing 
Lucayan Indians of the Bahamas at the moment of their discovery of 
Columbus's ships approaching their island village has become a 
favorite exhibit of many children. Like the Polar Eskimo group it 
combines ethnological detail with dramatic incident. (PI. 8.) 

Within each culture area wall-case exhibits interpreted Indian 
uses of natural resources. These exhibits employed artifacts to 
illustrate ideas and the objects were supplemented by such graphic 
devices as were needed to show their functions. Under the direc- 
tion of John E. Anglim and RoUand O. Hower, talented artists com- 
bined light, color, and design to create exhibits which would be as 
attractive as they were meaningful. 

OUR SMITHSONIAN HERITAGE 

It may seem a far cry from the small display of Indian curiosities 
exhibited in the Smithsonian Building a century ago to the Smithso- 
nian's many educational exhibits of today. However, these contrasts 
are no more remarkable than has been the continuity of the Smith- 
sonian's American Indian program over this hundred-year period. 
In reality today's displays have been more than a century in the mak- 
ing. They could not have been developed without the aid of the 
many farsighted men of the past who collected, recorded, and pre- 
served the basic ingredients of these exhibits — the artifacts themselves. 

In the American Indian halls are still displayed specimens col- 
lected by John Varden and by the Wilkes Expedition which were 
shown in the Smithsonian's first exhibits. Here, also, are artifacts 
sent to the Smithsonian by collaborators in response to Secretary 
Henry's call for assistance in the 1860's, objects collected by Army 
physicians stationed at lonely frontier posts before and during the 
Plains Indian wars, grotesque masks and a totem pole obtained by 
James Swan for the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the Arapaho 
tipi collected by Vincent Colyer for that exhibition more than 80 
years ago. After more than 50 years William H. Holmes's life-sized 
groups continue to delight and instruct visitors to the Smithsonian 
Institution. And it is especially noteworthy that the culture-area 
concept, conceived by Otis T. Mason while planning Smithsonian ex- 



AMERICAN INDIAN EXHIBITS — EWERS 525 

hibits for the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893, still provides 
the best guide to arranging exhibits on the American Indians that has 
ever been devised. 

Our heritage is rich indeed. 

REFERENCES 

Accession Book, John Varden's Washington Museum. (Original in Smithso- 
nian Archives.) 
Annual Reports of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 1858- 

1957. 
Annual Report of the United States National Museum for 1893. 1895. 
EwEES, John 0. 

1955. Problems and procedures in modernizing ethnological exhibits. Amer. 
Anthrop., n.s., vol 57, No. 1. 
GiBBS, George. 

1863. Instructions for research relative to the ethnology and philology of 
America. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 7, art. 11. 
Holmes, William H. 

1903. Classification and arrangement of the exhibits of an anthropological 
museum. Ann. Rep. U.S. Nat. Mus. for 1901. 
Mason, Otis T. 

1896. Influence of environment upon human industries or arts. Ann. Rep. 
Smithsonian Inst, for 1895. 
Peale, T. R. 

Collections of the United States South Seas Surveying and Exploring 
Expedition, 1838-42. (MS. in Div. Ethnology, U.S. National 
Museum.) 
Rhees, William J. 

1859. An account of the Smithsonian Institution, its founder, building, 
operations, etc. Spec. Publ., Smithsonian Inst. 
WissLEB, Clark. 

1914. Material cultures of the North American Indians. Amer. Anthrop., 

n.s., vol. 16. 
1917. The American Indian. 1st ed. New York. 



The Childhood Pattern of Genius 



By Harold G. McCurdy 

Department of Psychology, University of North Carolina 



Genius by any definition is rare. If, following Galton, we make 
lasting fame one of the requirements, it is very rare indeed, and we 
are reduced to studying it at a distance through biography. Now, 
biographies have their limitations; as Havelcck Ellis noted, one may 
search through them in vain for the most ordinary vital statistics. 
Above all, they cannot be expected to yield information on those 
details of early life, such as nursing and weaning and toilet training, 
to which psychoanalysis has attached so much importance. When, 
therefore, one proposes as I do here to explore the question whether 
there is some pattern of environm.ental influences operating on chil- 
dren of genius which might help to account for their later achieve- 
ment, it should be self-evident that the question is necessarily ad- 
justed to something less than microscopic precision. Not onlj' so, but, 
because the factor of heredity cannot be controlled, any answer what- 
soever must be regarded as partial and tentative and ambiguous. 
Nevertheless, there may be some profit in asking the question, and 
insofar as it is directed simply toward the discovery of uniformity 
of environmental pattern there is no inherent reason why it should 
not be answerable, provided we do not insist on minute detail. 

Table 1 presents the 20 geniuses into whose childhood this paper 
will inquire. The selection was partly deliberate, on theoretical 
grounds, and partly random, as will be explained. In Cox's monu- 
m.ental study of great geniuses [7] " the main sample consists of 282 
men drawn from the list of 1,000 which was compiled by J. McKeen 
Cattell on the principle that the amount of space allotted to them 
in biographical dictionaries could be taken as an objective measure of 
their true eminence. Though one may certainly quarrel with some of 
CattelFs results, the sifting process applied by Cox was admirable. 



^ Reprinted by permissiou from the Journal of the Elisha Mitchell Scientific Society, 
vol. 73, No. 2, November 1957 

" Numbers in brackets indicate references at the end of the text. 

527 
492520—59— — 35 



528 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

She arrived at her smaller list by requiring: (1) that the attained 
eminence should clearly depend upon notable personal achievement; 
and (2) that the biographical material available should be sufficient 
to permit a reliable estimate of early mental ability. Men born before 
1450 were eliminated. The chief task of Cox's investigation was 
to estimate the intelligence level displayed by these rigorously selected 
geniuses during childhood and youth. For this purpose the ap- 
propriate information was extracted from biographical sources 
and submitted to the judgment of three raters thoroughly experienced 
in the use of intelligence tests and the evaluation of IQ from behavior. 
Their three independent ratings, expressed as IQ's, were combined. 
Separate estimates were made for two periods of life: from birth 
to age 17, and from age 17 to age 26. As might be expected, the 
reliabilities of the estimates increased in proportion to the amount 
of biographical information, and, in general, the IQ's based on the 
more adequate material were higher. Consequently, one in search of 
illumination on the early environment of genius would naturally 
turn most hopefully to the geniuses in Cox's list who had been as- 
signed the highest childhood IQ's. This I did. From her list I chose 
as my preliminary sample the 27 men whose IQ's in childhood had 
been estimated at 160 or liigher. The final sample of 20, as given in 
table 1, was reached by dropping out those individuals for whom the 
biographical material in the University of North Carolina Library 
appeared to be inadequate.^ As will be observed, the order of listing 
in the table is from the highest childhood IQ downward. The repu- 
tation of each man is indicated in the column headed "Fame" by his 
rank number in Cox's sample, as based on Cattell. With respect to 
fame the sample appears to be a fair cross section of Cox's larger 
group; with respect to IQ, as explained, it is highly selected. One 
sees at a glance that here are individuals who did extraordinary work 
in science, law, literature, or politics, and who fully deserve to be 
called geniuses. Their biographies should be relevant to the 
proposed question. 

It should be understood from the outset that Cox did not neglect 
the problem of environment. Her biographical sketches furnish some 
very pertinent information, and she states as an important conclusion 
that, on the whole, youths who achieve eminence have superior ad- 
vantages in their early days. Though she notes exceptions, she says : 
"The average opportunity of our young geniuses for superior educa- 
tion and for elevating and inspiring social contacts was unusually 
high. . . . The extraordinary training for leadership received by 
Pitt the younger, John Quincy Adams, Niebuhr, and the Humboldt 
brothers ; the specialized instruction of Mozart, Weber, and Michael- 



5 The seven omitted were Schelling, Haller, Wolsey, Sarpi, Constant, Brougham, Bossuet. 
In order to retain Leibniz an Interlibrary loan was arranged for Gubrauer's biography. 



CHILDHOOD PATTERN OF GENIUS — McCURDY 



529 



angelo undoubtedly contributed to the rapid progress of these gi-eat 
men among the great" [7, p. 216]. The object of the present study 
is to push forward in the same direction of inquiry, but with more 
pointed attention to the social relations and their repercussions. 

In table 1, one column briefly summarizes facts concerning order 
of birth. Considerable theoretical importance is sometimes attached 
to the chronological position of a child in the family. In particular, 
Galton, who was not prone to overemphasize environment, thought 
enough of order of birth to pay some heed to it in his investigation 

Table 1. — Twenty geniuses selected from Cox's list 



Estimated 

IQln 
childhood 



Fame (rank 
in 282) 



Birth order 



Age at mar- 
riage 



J. S. Mill (1806-1873) 

Leibniz (1646-1717) 

Grotius (1583-1645) 

Goethe (1749-1832) 

Pascal (1623-1662) 

Macaulav (1800-1859)... 

Bentham (1748-1832) 

Coleridge (1772-1834) 

Voltaire (1694-1778) 

Leopardi (1798-1837) 

Chatterton (1752-1770).. 

Niebuhr (1776-1831) 

Mirabeau (1749-1791) 

J. Q. Adams (1767-1848) . 

Wieland (1733-1813) 

Tasso (1544-1595) 

Pope (1688-1744) 

Pitt (1759-1806) 

Musset (1810-1857) 

Melanchthon (1497-1560) 



190 
185 
185 
185 
180 
180 
180 
175 
170 
170 
170 
165 
165 
165 
160 
160 
160 
160 
160 
160 



103 

19 

72 

4 

35 

53 

181 

157 

2 

280 

163 

135 

30 

274 

152 

48 

50 

9 

261 

77 



1 in 9 

Only 

1 in 5 

1 in 6 

2 in 3 

1 in 9 

1 in 2 

10 in 10.- 
5 in 5 

1 in 5 

3 in 3 

2 in 2 

9(?) in 11. 

2 in 5 

1 in ? 

3 in 3 

Only 

2 in 5 

2 in 2 

1 in 5 



45 



25 
39 



23 



24 
22 
30 
32 



23 



of British scientists ; and he comments that "the elder sons have, on 
the whole, decided advantages of nurture over the younger sons. 
They are more likely to become possessed of independent means, and 
tlieref ore able to follow the pursuits that have most attraction to their 
tastes; they are treated more as companions by their parents, and 
have earlier responsibility, both of which would develop independence 
of cliaracter ; probably, also, the first-born child of families not well- 
to-do in the world would generally have more attention in liis infancy, 
more breathing-space, and better nourishment, than his younger 
brothers and sisters in their several turns" [13, p. 26]. There is an 
intuitive appeal in the argument, but Galton does not support it by 
any precise analysis of his data. "Wliat may be said about the present 
sample? First, it must be admitted that there are several ways of 
stating the facts, depending on whether one includes or excludes half- 
siblings and siblings who died at an early age. The figures given in 
the table stand for full siblings and include all births. The half- 



530 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

siblings excluded in the three cases involved (Leibniz, Coleridge, 
Pope) were children by previous wives of their fathers. The im- 
pression produced by inspection is that there may be an excess of only 
and first children among these 20 geniuses. But an analysis of the 
probabilities does not favor this view very strongly. The average 
likelihood of being born in first place in the 20 families works out 
to about one-third, and the observed frequencies deviate from the 
theoretically expected only enough to yield a chi square of 2 in sup- 
port of the hypothesis ; since this corresponds to a confidence level of 
between 0.2 and 0.1 for the one degree of freedom, one is left in 
doubt. Pascal, Niebuhr, and Adams were first sons. If we esti- 
mate in terms of first sons, a total of 13, and adjust the probabilities 
to the expectation that about half the children in multiple births 
would be girls, the chi square is 1.8, again too small to support the 
hypothesis firmly. 

Though the figures do not support a birth order hypothesis, there 
may nevertheless be something about position in the family which is 
significant. Let us look at the seven who do not rank as first-born 
children or first-born sons. Coleridge was born in his father's old age 
and was his "Benjamin"; Voltaire was so sickly during the first year 
of his life that there was daily concern over his survival, and his 
mother, an invalid, was incapable of having any more children; 
Chatterton was a posthumous child, and the previous boy in the 
family had died in infancy; Mirabeau was the first son to survive 
after the death of the first and a succession of girls ; Tasso was the 
only surviving son, his older brother having died before he was 
born ; Pitt w^as in the interesting position of being able to follow his 
father in a parliamentary career in the House of Commons, as his 
older brother could not do so because of the inherited title ; and Mus- 
set, the second of two sons, was younger than the first by a significant 
span of 6 years. When we weigh these additional facts, the general 
notion of some sort of positional effect begins to reassert itself. 

One way in which position in the family might favor the develop- 
ment of a child would be by giving it higher attentional value for the 
parents. Close examination of the biographical data leads to the 
conclusion that these 20 men of genius, whether because of their 
position in the family or not, did as children receive a high degree 
of attention from their parents, as well as from others. In several 
cases it is clear that the attention exceeded that accorded to their 
brothers and sisters. Both very decided and very positive parental 
interest was displayed toward Mill, Leibniz, Grotius, Goethe, Pascal, 
Macaulay, Bentham, Coleridge, Niebuhr, Adams, Wieland, Pope, 
Pitt, and Melanchthon. Voltaire and Musset were far from 
neglected, but the attention bestowed upon them may have lacked 
some of the intensity of focus notable in the preceding cases. If any 



CHILDHOOD PATTERN OF GENIUS — McCURDY 531 

of the children suffered comparative neglect or abuse, they would be 
Leopardi, Chatterton, and Mirabeau. Chatterton had no father from 
the time of his birth, and the fathers of Leopardi and Mirabeau were 
lacking in sympathy or worse. On the other hand, Chatterton's 
mother and sister helped him to learn to read, saw that he went to 
school, and were good enough to him that the promise he made them 
when a child to reward them with all kinds of finery when he grew 
up was fulfilled in the last year of his short life ; Leopardi was pro- 
vided with tutors and had access to his father's rich library; and 
Mirabeau, cuffed and persecuted as he finally was by his erratic father, 
was received into the world with an outburst of joy and was always 
provided for educationally, even though the arrangement may have 
been savagely disciplinary. 

Favorable parental attention may take the two forms of displays of 
affection and intellectual stimulation. There is strong evidence for 
both in most of the cases in our list. Remarkable indeed are the 
educational programs followed by Mill, Goethe, Pascal, Bentham, 
Niebuhr, Adams, Wieland, Tasso, and Pitt, under the encouragement, 
guidance, and powerful insistence of their fathers. Yet it is not the 
educational program itself which requires our notice so much as it is 
the intimate and constant association with adults which it entails. 
Not only were these boys often in the company of adults, as genuine 
companions ; they were to a significant extent cut off from the society 
of other children. The same statement can be made, on the whole, 
for others in the list whose educations proceeded less directly, or less 
strenuously under the guidance of fathers. 

Warm attachments to children outside the family circle seem to 
have been rare, and there are several cases of isolation within the 
family, too. Yet it is within the family that most of the recorded 
intimacies between these geniuses and other children developed. 
Goethe, Pascal, Niebuhr, Macaulay, Voltaire, and Mirabeau ex- 
perienced some intensity of affection for sisters ; Musset for his older 
brother. Macaulay and Voltaire remained attached to their favorite 
sisters throughout their lives, becoming devoted uncles to their sisters' 
children; Goethe's and Pascal's affection for their younger sisters 
approached passion; and Mirabeau speaks of incestuous relations 
with his. 

The reality and nature of the pattern to which I am pointing — the 
very great dominance of adults in the lives of these children, and their 
isolation from contemporaries outside the family and, sometimes, 
within — can be adequately appreciated only through a more detailed 
statement about each individual. 

Mill^ under his father's personal and unremitting tutelage, began 
hard intellectual work before he was 3. From very early he was given 
the responsibility of acting as tutor to his brothers and sisters. This 



532 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

did not increase his affection for them. In fact, he came to share 
some of his father's own antipathy toward them and toward his 
mother. He explicitly states in his autobiography that his father 
kept him apart from other boys. "He was earnestly bent upon my 
escaping not only the ordinary corrupting influence which boys exer- 
cise over boys, but the contagion of vulgar modes of thought and 
feeling; and for this he was willing that I should pay the price of in- 
feriority in the accomplishments which schoolboys in all countries 
chiefly cultivate" [21, p. 24 f ] . And again : "As I had no boy compan- 
ions, and the animal need of physical activity was satisfied by walk- 
ing, my amusements, which were mostly solitary, were in general of a 
quiet, if not a bookish turn, and gave little stimulus to any other kind 
even of mental activity than that which was already called forth by 
my studies" (p. 25). 

Leibniz^ his mother's only child, lost his father, a prominent uni- 
versity professor, when he was 6. He retained two vivid memories of 
him, both of them expressive of the high esteem in which his father 
held him. His mother, who died when he was 18, devoted the re- 
mainder of her life to caring for him. He lived at home, free from 
"the doubtful liberties, the numerous temptations, the barbarous fol- 
lies of student life" [18, p. 12]. Before he was 10 his father's care- 
fully guarded library was opened to him, and he plunged into its 
treasures eagerly. It was conceivably no small thing to Leibniz that 
his father had regarded his christening as marked by a symbolic 
movement which seemed to promise that his son, as he wrote in his 
domestic chronicle, would continue in a spiritual and burning love 
for God all his life and do wonderful deeds in honor of the Highest 
[15, p. 4]. 

Grofius was close to his father. He signed his early poems Hugei- 
anus, thus joining his own name Hugo with his father's name Janus 
or Joannes. At 8 he reacted to the death of a brother by writing his 
father consolatory Latin verses. He had competent teachers at home, 
and entered the University of L^eiden at 11; there he dwelt with a 
devoutly religious man who impressed him deeply. He was famous 
in the literary world very early, and received high praise from dis- 
tinguished men. He sought his father's advice wlien he chose a wife. 
One would infer from the limited evidence that his association from 
early childhood was primarily with adults. 

Goethe throughout his childhood was carefully and energetically 
supervised in his varied studies by his father. He associated fre- 
quently with numerous skilled and learned and eminent men in Frank- 
fort, among whom was his grandfather Textor. He enjoyed consider- 
able freedom of movement through the city, in the intervals of his 
studies, and struck up several acquaintances outside the home among 
boys and girls ; but these were certainly far outweighed by his adult 



CHILDHOOD PATTERN OF GENIUS — McCURDY 533 

contacts, and by his intimacy with his sister, who had much less 
freedom than he and who became increasingly embittered by the 
educational discipline of their father. In his autobiography he notes 
that he was not on friendly terms with a brother, 3 years younger, 
who died in childhood, and scarcely retained any memory of the three 
subsequent children who also died young. Plow close he and his sister 
were may be gaged by these words regarding the aftereffects of his 
love affair with Gretchen, at about 14: "my sister consoled me the 
more earnestly, because she secretly felt the satisfaction of having 
gotten rid of a rival: and I, too, could not but feel a quiet, Iialf- 
delicious pleasure, when she did me the justice to assure me that I was 
the only one who truly loved, understood, and esteemed her" [14, p. 
192]. 

Pascal was so precious in the eyes of his father, after his mother's 
death when he was 3, that, as the older sister tells us, the father could 
not bear the thought of leaving his education to others, and accord- 
ingly became and remained his only teaclier. At 18 Pascal's health 
broke down from ceaseless application. He was frequently in the 
company of the learned men surrounding his father. His primary 
emotional attachment was to his younger sister, Jacqueline; her re- 
ligious retirement strongly influenced his own religious development. 

Macaulay early became absorbed in books, but his studies were more 
unobtrusively guided by his father and mother and other relatives 
than in the cases preceding. He was especially attached to his mother 
in early childhood, and at home among his brothers and sisters was 
overflowingly happy and playful. A sister writes: "He hated 
strangers, and his notion of perfect happiness was to see us all work- 
ing round him while he read aloud a novel, and then to walk all to- 
gether on the Common" [30, p. 67]. He was reluctant to leave home 
for school for even a single day, and lie was acutely homesick when 
placed in a boarding school at about 12 ; there, though tolerated and 
even admired by his fellow pupils, he had little to do with them, liv- 
ing almost exclusively among books. The children at home passion- 
ately loved him. It should not be overlooked that his father was a 
deeply religious man of great force of character, energetic in religious 
and political reform movements of considerable scope. 

Bentha'in's father, ambitious to make a practical lawyer of his first 
and for 9 years his only child, kept him to a rigorous schedule of in- 
struction in everything from dancing and military drill to Greek 
from a very early age. From 7 to 12 he spent the winters at a board- 
ing school, which he did not enjoy; in the vacations at home his 
schooling, under private tutors, was much more intensive. He was 
happiest on visits to grandparents in the country, where he could 
talk to an old gardener or climb up a tree and read a novel. Too small 
and weak to win the admiration of his fellows, "he tried to be in- 



534 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

dustrious and honest and noble and dutiful, finding that such a course 
brought praise from his elders" [10, p. 20 f.]. When the death of his 
warmhearted mother desolated his f.vther and himself, Jeremy "was 
just turned twelve, and was ready for Oxford, if a frail and under- 
sized boy of twelve could be said to be ready for anything" [10, p. 22]. 

Coleridge's father, though miambitious in general and not very 
attentive to the education of his numerous other children, took special 
pride in him and endeavored from the beginning to prepare him for 
the church. Coleridge was the last of 14 children (10 by his mother) , 
and the extreme fondness of his parents aroused the hostility of the 
older boys toward him. They drove him from play and tormented 
him. On one occasion, when he was 8, he ran away from home after 
a ferocious combat with the brother whom he had displaced as baby 
of the family; he was found only after a prolonged search, and he 
remembered all his life the tears of joy on his father's face and his 
mother's ecstasy w^hen he was recovered. Death of the father, when 
he was 9, deprived him of his most valued companion. Shortly 
afterward he was sent to a charity school in London. Here he made 
a few friends, notably Lamb, but he lived a great deal in books and 
in his own imagination. 

Voltaire was born 5 years after the death in infancy of the next 
preceding child, and his own life was despaired of daily for the first 
year. His mother was an invalid ; his father was a busy lawyer and 
does not seem to have concentrated any particular attention on him, 
beyond desiring that the boy should himself be prepared for law. 
His education at home proceeded under the guidance of three dis- 
tinguished and learned men, particularly the Abbe Chateauneuf, his 
godfather. The two other surviving children were considerably older 
than he ; the brother he disliked, but he was fond of his 7-year-older 
sister, and, after his mother's death when he was 7, it was she to whom 
he was chiefly attached in the family. At 10 he was quartered in the 
best Jesuit school in France by his ambitious and wealthy father ; here 
he made the warmest and most lasting friendships in his life, but they 
were with the teachers rather than with the boys. 

Leopardi^ the oldest of five children, remained until he was 24, 
practically immured, in the house of his father, the Count, in a town 
which he despised. In Leopardi's own words : "Had no teachers except 
for the first rudiments, which he learned under tutors kept expressly in 
the house of his father. But had the use of a rich library collected by 
his father, a great lover of literature. In this library passed the chief 
portion of his life, while and as much as permitted by his health, ruined 
by these studies; which he began independently of teachers, at 10 
years of age, and continued thenceforth without intermission, making 
them his sole occupation" [29, p. 2]. His closest companion was his 
brother Carlo, a year younger; but he was reticent even with him. 



CHILDHOOD PATTERN OF GENIUS — McCURDY 535 

With the other children he liked to produce plays in which the tyrant 
(his father) was worsted by the hero (himself). At a later age he 
regarded his home as a prison from which he had to break out. 

Chatterton^ born 3 months after his talented father's death, was the 
second surviving child of his very young mother, who had borne her 
daughter 4 or 5 years earlier before her marriage was legalized. Under 
their instruction, he learned the alphabet from an old illuminated music 
manuscript of his father's, which his mother had been about to throw 
away, and learned how to read from an old blackletter Testament. He 
had been dismissed from his first school as a dullard. Later, he went 
to the uninspiring charity school which had been attended by his 
father. A note on his relations with playmates before he was 5 speaks 
of him as "presiding over his playmates as their master and they as his 
hired servants" [20, p. 22]. Already at 5 he was gi-eedy for fame, and 
asked that a cup which had been presented to him by a relative should 
have on it "an angel with a trumpet, Ho blow his name dbout^ as he said" 
[20, p. 23]. He did form friendships at school, one in particular; and 
the death of this boy plunged him into melancholy. But with none of 
these, or with his sister, was he intimate enough to share the secret of 
his Rowley poems, those impressive forgeries which seem to have been 
written under the inspiration and tutelage of the beautiful church of 
St. Mary Redcliffe rather than any human preceptor. 

Niebuhr's father, who had been a military engineer and explorer, 
took up residence after his marriage at 40 in a retired little town and 
devoted himself to his wife and family of two children. He liked to 
entertain his own and other children with stories, games, and music ; 
but he concentrated particularly on the instruction of his son, for 
whom he also provided tutors from about 4 or 5. A cultured neighbor, 
Boje, who was editor of a literary periodical, took much interest 
in the boy; and Boje's wife began his instruction in French. Her 
death when he was 10 overwhelmed him with grief and inclined him 
even more seriously to his studies. Between 14 and 18 he spent most 
of the day in hard work and general reading. When he was 16 his 
father, thinking that his attachment to home was excessive and that he 
was studying too much alone, sent him off to a school in Hamburg in 
the hope that he would become more sociable ; but he was unhappy, 
and insisted on coming back. From an early age ill health and his 
mother's anxiety contributed their share to his inclination to solitude. 

Mirdbeau^ the first surviving son of a family of the nobility, was in 
the beginning his father's pride. Later, after disfigurement by small- 
pox at 3 and displacement from the position of only son by the birth 
of a brother when he was 5, he became increasingly the object of his 
erratic father's dislike. Intense marital discord made him the more 
hateful because he resembled his mother's side of the house. He was 



536 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

unfavorably compared with the other children, and repeatedly put 
under severe disciplinarians as tutors. Eventually his father had 
him imprisoned more than once. In the face of this persecution, 
Mirabeau, helped partly by the affectionate interest of an uncle, suc- 
ceeded nevertheless in developing an extraordinarily winning manner 
in speech and personal contacts, even charming his jailers into relaxing 
their punishments. Whether or not he was inclined to solitude, it was 
forced on him by his father ; much of his learning and literary produc- 
tion took place in prisons or their equivalents. He was highly erotic, 
and may have had sexual relations with his younger sister ; for so he 
asserts. 

Adams regarded even his name, John Quincy, which was his great- 
grandfather's, as a perpetual admonition to live nobly. The Kevolu- 
tionary War and the Battle of Bunker Hill, which he witnessed, con- 
firmed a serious habit of mind from early childhood. As his father 
was absent from home a great deal, he was already as a small boy 
depended upon by his mother as if he were a man. His education 
commenced at home under a tutor, and continued in Europe in the 
company of his father and other men notable in the governmental 
service. It was not mitil he entered Harvard that he attended a regu- 
lar school for any length of time. Both his mother and his father 
tried to keep him from the corrupting influence of other boys, and it is 
evident from the nature of his life that his chief contacts were witJi 
grown men of serious and intellectual character. He read a great deal 
under the guidance of his father, whom in his earliest letters he ob- 
viously wished to please. 

Wieland was educated at home under the eyes of his father, a pastor, 
in somewhat the same severe manner as was Goethe. He studied hard 
from 3 years of age. He says of his childhood : "I was deeply in love 
with solitude and passed whole days and summer nights in the garden, 
observing and imitating the beauties of nature" [26, p. 19]. He was 
much more attached to books than to people. Prior to age 17, says 
his biographer, "We encounter not a single friend of his own age, only 
books and those who helped with them!" [26, p. 24]. He was sensi- 
tive and unsociable when aw^ay at school, and when he returned home 
he lived alone or associated only with older men. His biographer 
makes no mention of his relations with his several siblings. 

Tasso, whose old father was often compelled to be away from home, 
lived with his young mother and his sister until he was separated from 
them forever at 10, to join his father at the court of his patron prince. 
Even while he remained at home he was being strictly educated, first by 
an old priest, and then in a Jesuit school, which he loved. His mother, 
of whom he was passionately fond, died 2 years after he went to join 
his father. Of his childhood, Boulting says : "The prolonged absences 
of his father, the tears of his mother, the straitened circumstances and 
this sudden death were not healthy influences for a sensitive lad, and 



CHILDHOOD PATTERN OF GENIUS — McCURDY 537 

there was a great deal too much educational pressure put upon him. 
Bernardo was proud of Torquato's talents and ambitious as to his 
future. He forced him on and took scudi from a slender purse to pay 
for special lessons in Greek. But a cousin came to Rome from Bergamo 
to share in Torquato's studies. No bookworm was this lad, but full of 
fun and a thorough boy. Nothing could have been luckier" [3, p. 31]. 
A little later he had as his companion in the study of the graces 
(horsemanship, jousting, etc.) a boy of 8, son of Duke Guidobaldo. 
Otherwise he seems to have associated primarily with men, often men 
of great dignity and learning. 

Poj)e, the only child of his mother (there was a half-sister more than 
9 years older) , was from the earliest period a domestic idol, as Stephen 
says. His father and mother, both 46 at his birth, and a nurse, con- 
centrated their aifection upon him, which must have been all the more 
intense because he was sickly, and humpbacked like his father. "The 
religion of the family made their seclusion from the world the more 
rigid, and by consequence must have strengthened their mutual ad- 
hesiveness. Catholics were then harassed by a legislation which would 
have been condemned by any modern standard as intolerably tyran- 
nical" [28, p. 2]. Most of his education was accomplished at home, 
with some help from a family priest and his father, who corrected his 
early rhymes. From 12 he threw himself into his studies so passion- 
ately that his frail constitution threatened to break down. 

Pitt was born at the high peak of his father's career as Prime Min- 
ister of England. When the title of Earl of Chatham was conferred 
on him, this second son, then 7, exclaimed, "I am glad that I am not 
the eldest son. I want to speak in the House of Commons like papa." 
Partly because of his feeble health, the boy was brought up at home 
under the instruction of his father and a tutor. His father concen- 
trated upon developing his oratorical powers. At 14 he was sent to 
Cambridge, where he was placed in the care of a sound scholar, who 
remained his inseparable companion, and practically his only one, 
for more than 2 years. He had no social life there. He read with fa- 
cility such books as Newton's "Principia" and the obscurest of the 
Greek poets. "Through his whole boyhood, the House of Commons 
was never out of his thoughts, or out of the thoughts of his instructors" 
[17, p. 129]. 

Musset was the second son in a family devoted to literature, "an in- 
fant prodigy on whom the intelligence of his brother, 6 years his 
elder, did not fail to exercise a stimulating effect. Alfred developed 
his mind in the constant companionship of Paul much more rapidly 
than he would have in the company of children his own age" [5, p. 
12] . He was notable from early childhood for his sensitivity, charm, 
emotional ardor, dramatic power, and susceptibility to feminine 
beauty. At a very tender age he was already disappointed in love. 



538 AKNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

He went to school for a short time with his brother, but sickness and 
the hostility of the other children toward these Bonapartists soon 
led to their being tutored at home, by a young man who knew how 
to combine pleasure with instruction. 

Melanchthon always remembered the dying injunction of his 
father : "I have seen many and great changes in the world, but greater 
ones are yet to follow, in which may God lead and guide you. Fear 
God, and do right" [25, p. 6]. Before this time (his father died 
when he was 11) he was, by his father's express wishes, strictly 
educated, for a while in a local school, and then by a tutor, a con- 
scientious teacher and stern disciplinarian. Afterward he came more 
directly under the influence of the celebrated scholar Reuchlin, who 
was his relative. It was Reuchlin, impressed by the scholarship of 
the little boy, who changed his name from Schwartzerd to its Greek 
equivalent Melanchthon. Of his earlier childhood it is related that 
he often gathered his schoolfellows around him to discuss what they 
had been reading and learning; and his grandfather delighted to 
engage him in learned disputes with traveling scholars, whom he 
usually confounded. 

The brief sketches preceding tend to confirm the rule, I believe, that 
children of genius are exposed to significantly great amounts of in- 
tellectual stimulation by adults and experience very restricted con- 
tacts with other children of their age. Nor should we overlook the 
fact that books themselves, to v^'hich these children are so much 
attached, are representatives of the adult world. This is true in the 
superficial sense that they are provided by adults and, more signifi- 
cantly, may be drawn from a father's sacred library (one thinks of 
Leibniz, Leopardi, even Chatterton) ; it is true in the profounder sense 
that they are written by adults, and, in the case of most of the reading 
done by these children, for adults. Books extend the boundaries of 
the adult empire. 

There is an effect in this constant intercourse with the adult world 
which may be especially important in the development of genius. Not 
only is there an increase of knowledge, which is the usual aim of the 
instructors; there is also, in many cases, a profound excitement of 
imagination. Even Jolm Stuart Mill confesses that he did not per- 
fectly understand such grave works as the more difficult dialogs of 
Plato when he read them in Greek at 7. What, then, happens to such 
adult material pouring into the child's mind ? Mill does not elucidate 
his own case; but there is evidence in a number of the biograpliies 
before me that the dynamic processes of fantasy go to work on it and 
richly transform both what is understood and what is not. 

Much of Goethe's association with other children was simply an occa- 
sion for expressing his vivid fantasy life; he entranced them with 
stories of imaginary adventures. Musset, also, reveled in a world of 
make-believe based upon the Arabian Nights and similar literature, 



CHILDHOOD PATTERN OF GENIUS — McCURDY 539 

and bewitched his enemies by the magic power of imagination. These 
were to become poets. But Bentham, who was no poet, imagined him- 
self growing up as a hero like Fenelon's Telemachus and was stirred to 
moral fervor by sentimental novels. And two of the practical poli- 
ticians in the list, Pitt and Niebuhr, may give us some insight into the 
process. Wlien Pitt was around 13 or 14 he had written a tragedy, of 
which Macaulay has this to say: "This piece is still preserved at 
Chevening, and is in some respects highly curious. There is no love. 
The whole plot is political ; and it is remarkable that the interest, such 
as it is, turns on a contest about a regency. On one side is a faithful 
servant of the Crown, on the other an ambitious and unprincipled con- 
spirator. At length the King, who had been missing, reappears, 
resumes his power, and rewards the faithful defender of his rights. 
A reader who should judge only by the internal evidence, would have 
no hesitation in pronouncing that the play was written by some Pittite 
poetaster at the time of the rejoicings for the recovery of George the 
Third in 1789" [17, p. 68 f .] . Out of his learning Pitt had constructed 
a dream prescient of his own future career. And who can say that 
the actions of a Prime Minister are not as much the expression of a 
private drama as they are the realistic application of the sciences and 
the laws? Niebuhr, who became a practical man of business and 
politics as well as the historian of Rome, writes explicitly about his 
own childhood experience, in a letter to Jacobi in 1811 : "Our great 
seclusion from the world, in a quiet little provincial town, the prohibi- 
tion, from our earliest years, to pass beyond the house and garden, ac- 
customed me to gather the materials for the insatiable requirements of 
my cliildish fancy, not from life and nature, but from books, engrav- 
ings, and conversation. Thus, my imagination laid no hold on the 
realities around me, but absorbed into her dominions all that I read — 
and I read without limit and without aim — while the actual world was 
impenetrable to my gaze; so that I became almost incapable of 
apprehending anything which had not already been apprehended by 
another — of forming a mental picture of anything which had not 
before been shaped into a distinct conception by another. It is true 
that, in this second-hand world, I was very learned, and could even, at 
a very early age, pronounce opinions like a grownup person ; but the 
truth in me and around me was veiled from my eyes — the genuine 
truth of objective reason. Even when I grew older, and studied an- 
tiquity with intense interest, the chief use I made of my knowledge, 
for a long time, was to give fresh variety and brilliancy to my world 
of dreams" [4, p. 354] . 

My point is that fantasy is probably an important aspect of the 
development of genius, not only in those cases where the chief avenue 
to fame is through the production of works of imagination in the 
ordinary sense, but also in those where the adult accomplishment is of 

492520—59 36 



540 AJSTNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

a different sort. Instead of becoming proficient in taking and giving 
the hard knocks of social relations with his contemporaries, the child 
of genius is thrown back on the resources of his imagination, and 
through it becomes aware of his own depth, self-conscious in the fullest 
sense, and essentially independent. There is danger, however, in the 
intense cultivation of fantasy. If it does not flow over into the ordi- 
nary social relations by some channel, if it has to be dammed up as 
something socially useless, then it threatens life itself. An expression 
of what I am referring to is given in that powerful scene in the first 
part of Goethe's "Faust" where the physician-magician, tampering 
with incantations, raises a spirit of overwhelming presence and quails 
before him. Something nearer to an outright demonstration is fur- 
nished by the life of Chatterton and his suicide. 

Before he was 18 Chatterton was dead by his own hand. If we 
examine his life, we see that it breaks apart into two distinct regions : 
an outer shell of schoolboy, apprentice, pretended antiquarian, and 
writer of brittle satire ; and a core — the serious and deeply emotional 
15th-century poet Rowley, whose connection with himself he never 
publicly aclaiowledged. One must not forget that Chatterton's fan- 
tasy existence as Eowley has points of contact with his father, the 
musician schoolteacher who died before his son was born, but who, in 
a sense, presided over the boy's education through the music manu- 
script from which he learned his letters and the blackletter Testament 
in which he learned to read, and who, by his connection and the con- 
nection of his family with the magnificent church of St. Mary Red- 
cliffe, which overshadowed the place of Chatterton's birth and was his 
favorite resort from the brutalities of Bristol, might surely continue 
to hold converse with the imaginative boy. The Rowley poems fur- 
thermore are related to Chatterton's search for a pedigree. In short, 
through Rowley, Chatterton established relations with the world of 
the dead ; and since he could not admit that he himself was the author 
of the Rowley poems, but had to pretend to have found them in his role 
as antiquary, and was thus rejected as an impostor by Walpole, he 
could not through Rowley establish contact with the world of the liv- 
ing. The surface which he was able to present to the world was hard, 
brittle, violent, unreal. Yet even in his relations with the world he 
appeared to be doing the same thing he was doing through the Rowley 
fantasies, namely, seeking a father to love and protect him. He 
evidently placed great hopes in "Walpole; but he had also tried and 
been disappointed in the patronage of men of lower caliber in Bristol. 
Eventually he came to a dead end in London, where he had no friends 
even of the quality of Bristol's Catcott. Just before he committed 
suicide he was Rowley once again in the most beautiful of his poems, 
the "Balade of Charitie," which sums up his experience of the world 
and his yearning for a loving father. If it was Rowley who enabled 
Chatterton to live, it was also Rowley who opened the door of death 



CHILDHOOD PATTERN OF GENIUS — McCURDY 541 

for him and ushered him out of a world of constant bitter disappoint- 
ment into a world of kindly and Christian spirits, 

Chatterton is a supreme example of the dangers and costs of genius. 
Having no father or other appreciative adult to link him to the world, 
he was swallowed up by his imagination. But it is too often over- 
looked in the textbooks that genius in less tragic cases is generally 
a costly gift. Superficially an enviable piece of luck, it is actually a 
fatality which exacts tribute from the possessor. Extreme absorption 
in very hard work is one of the penalties, and sometimes broken health. 
Isolation from contemporaries, often increasing with the years, is 
another. Whether we should include heterosexual difficulties as 
another, I am not sure, but I have indicated some of the facts in the 
last column of table 1 and wish to consider the matter briefly. Fifty- 
five percent of our sample did not marry at all. There may be no 
special significance in this, since according to statistics for the United 
States [11] the marriage rate for the total population of males above 
15 is only about 60 percent and may have been lower in earlier times. 
On the other hand, this group, with the exception of Chatterton, 
ranges in age from 39 to 84 and should be compared with the higher 
age groups. According to the 1930 census in the United States mar- 
riage had been entered into by 86 percent of men in the age range 
from 35 to 44, and by age 60, which is about the median for our group 
of geniuses, it had been entered into by about 90 percent. I will only 
note further that some delay or reluctance or dissatisfaction attended 
the marriages of Mill, Goethe, Coleridge, Mirabeau, Wieland, and 
perhaps Melanchthon, but it would not be desirable here to go into 
greater detail because of the impossibility of making appropriate 
comparisons. It may be that for marriages both freely contracted and 
happily sustained a rate of 3 in 20 is not out of the ordinary, though I 
should be inclined to say that here, too, we have an expression of the 
costliness of genius. 

In summary, the present survey of biographical information on a 
sample of 20 men of genius suggests that the typical developmental 
pattern includes as important aspects : ( 1 ) a high degree of attention 
focused upon the child by parents and other adults, expressed in inten- 
sive educational measures and, usually, abundant love; (2) isolation 
from other children, especially outside the family; and (3) a rich 
efflorescence of fantasy, as a reaction to the two preceding conditions. 
In stating these conclusions I by no means wish to imply that original 
endowment is an insignificant variable. On the contrary. Galton's 
strong arguments on behalf of heredity appear to me to be well 
founded ; and in this particular sample the early promise of these very 
distinguished men cannot be dissociated from the unusual intellectual 
qualities evident in their parents and transmitted, one would suppose, 
genetically as well as socially to their offspring. It is upon a ground- 
work of inherited ability that I see the pattern operating. Whether 



542 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

the environmental phase of it summarized under (1) and (2) is 
actually causally important, and to what extent the environmental 
factors are related to the blossoming out of fantasy, are questions 
which could be examined experimentally, though obviously any 
thorough experiment would require both a great deal of money and a 
certain degree of audacity. It might be remarked that the mass edu- 
cation of our public school system is, in its way, a vast experiment on 
the effect of reducing all three of the above factors to minimal values, 
and should, accordingly, tend to suppress the occurrence of genius. 

REFERENCES 

1. Adams, C. F. Memoirs of John Quincy Adams, vol. I. Philadelphia. 1874. 

2. BiELSCHOwsKY, A. The life of Goethe, vol. I. New York. 1905. 

3. BouLTiNG, W. Tasso and his times. London. 1907. 

4. Bun SEN, C. C. J ; Brandis, J. ; and Loebeli,, J. W. The life and letters of 

Barthold George Niebuhr, vol. I. London. 1852. 

5. Chabpentieb, J. La vie meurtrie de Alfred de Musset. Paris. 1928. 

6. CotiRTNEY, "W. L. Life of John Stuart Mill. London. 1888. 

7. Cox, C. M. The early mental traits of three hundred geniuses. Stanford 

University Press. 1926. 

8. Elliot, H. S. R. The letters of John Stuart Mill, vol. I. London. 1910. 

9. Ellis, H. A study of British genius. Boston. 1926. 

10. Everett, C. W. The education of Jeremy Bentham. New York. 1931. 

11. FoLSOM, J. K. The family and democratic society. New York. 1943. 

12. Galton, p. Hereditary genius. New York. 1871. 

13. Galton, F. English men of science. New York. 1875. 

14. Goethe, J. W. von. The auto-biography of Goethe. Truth and poetry : from 

my own life. London. 1848. 

15. GuHBAUEB, G. E. Gottfried Wilhelm Freiherr von Leibnitz, eine Biographie, 

voLL Breslau. 1842 (?). 

16. Hanson, L. The life of S. T. Coleridge : the early years. New York. 1939. 

17. Macaulay, T. B. Life of Pitt. New York. 1859. 

18. Merz, J. T. Leibniz. New York. 1948. 

19. Mesnard, J. Pascal, I'homme et I'oeuvre. Paris. 1951. 

20. Meyebstein, E. H. W. A life of Thomas Chatterton. London. 1930. 

21. Mill, J. S. Autobiography of John Stuart Mill. New York. 1948. 

22. Montigny, L. Memoirs of Mirabeau. London. 1835. 

23. Pabton, J. Life of Voltaire, vol. I. Boston. 1881. 

24. Perier, Mme. "Vie de B. Pascal." In Pens^es de B. Pascal. Paris. 1854. 

25. Richard, J. W. Philip Melanchthon, the Protestant Preceptor of Germany, 

1497-1560. New York. 1902. 

26. Sengle, F. Wieland. Stuttgart. 1949. 

27. Stanhope, Earl. Life of the Right Honourable William Pitt, vol. I. London. 

1861. 

28. Stephen, L. Alexander Pope. New York. N.d. 

29. Thomson, J. Essays, dialogues and thoughts of Giacomo Leopardi. London. 

N.d. 

30. Trevelyan, G. O. The life and letters of Lord Macaulay, vol. I. New York. 

1876. 

31. Vallentin, a. Mirabeau. New York. 1948. 

32. Vbeeland, H. Hugo Grotius, the father of the modern science of International 

law. New York. 1917. 

33. Willert, p. F. Mirabeau. London. 1931. 



The New England Porringer: 
An Index of Custom 



By Anthony N. B. Garvan 

Head Curator of Civil History 
Smithsonian Institution 



[With 8 plates] 



Objects are but imperfect records of action. However valid their 
authenticity, their design and pattern are seldom so critical as to have 
determined the exact course of the events with which they are related. 
Thus despite the markings which a firearm may leave upon a deadly 
ball, many other weapons of like or similar design can inflict an equally 
serious wound. The angle of the shot, the distance that separated 
victim and weapon, and all other details must be ascertained from the 
words of witnesses or the careful analysis of circumstantial evidence. 
The Deringer (pi. 1, fig. 1), however incontrovertibly linked to the 
bullet by the indisputable marks of its barrel, gives no clue as to 
motive for its use, the provocation, or a host of other pertinent ques- 
tions. All these must be answered apart from the weapon. Certainly 
very few artifacts can describe a particular action. Most, like an 
assassin's firearm, become mere curiosities whose significance is buried 
in a plethora of sentiment. All the ricli detail and human significance 
of the original event become obscured by what is at best incidental. 

In 1824 the Marquis de Lafayette revisited the United States. His 
landing was recorded in the press, by correspondents, diarists, and 
artists. In England, the Clews pottery in Cobridge, Stafl'ordshire, was 
quick to take advantage of popular interest and manufactured, among 
other pieces, a handsome platter with a view of the arrival of the 
Marquis at Castle Garden (pi. 1, fig. 2). Produced in blue-and- white 
glaze with the view adapted to the curvature of the piece, it describes 
little of the event. The flags, the ships, the harbor, the buildings, have 
all become patently distorted by the many persons who have adapted 
the original view to the requirements of the platter. Moreover, the 
piece tells little but the obvious facts about English ceramic manufac- 
tures of the period which any other vessel might do equally well.^ 

1 Platter by James & Ralph Clews of Cobridge. Elloulse Baker Larsen, American his- 
torical views on Staffordshire china, p. 57. New Yorlc. 1950. 

543 



544 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 

Although the platter lacks the accidental association which the 
Deringer enjoyed, its pictorial evidence seems, when first examined, of 
very little more value to the historian. But let us suppose for a 
moment that our questions be made more subtle and somewhat indirect. 
Instead of asking the platter to perform the verbal task of the manu- 
script or the eyewitness, let us ask it to act as an index of values and 
ideas seldom expressed verbally. However inferior as a reporter, it 
contains a superb record of the English estimate of American values 
and loyalties. Moreover, since the design became popular, it is clear 
that the British estimate did not miss the mark and that in fact the 
event excited American imagination. Finally, the evidence of the 
plate and its popularity rivals the best contemporary written opinion 
because, however discerning the latter, its bias remains indestructible. 
Since, in fact, each sale of the plate measures a minutia of popular 
opinion, the design gives thereby an insight which only an exhaustive 
survey could present. Moreover, as historians are well aware. Eng- 
lishmen seldom committed any but their gravest misgivings about 
America to paper ; the platter suggests a wider range of sympathetic 
if inarticulate feeling among English manufacturers.^ 

From the 19th century to which the Booth Deringer and the platter 
belong, so many objects have survived as to make their interpretation 
a statistical as well as an analytical problem. From the late I7th 
century and early 18th century, so few Colonial artifacts remain, the 
very real danger of overweighting the available objects exists. At the 
same time, this very paucity makes the neglect of any clues given by 
authentic objects more culpable. 

One of the most common vessels of early New England silver is the 
porringer. Quite unrelated to English silver vessels of the same name, 
it most closely resembles the English bleeding bowl (pi. 2, fig. 1 ; pi. 5, 
fig. 2) , but seems to have been seldom if ever designed for that purpose.^ 
Its size varies from 4 to 6 inches in diameter with a bowl 1 to 2 inches 
deep. Handles, while not of uniform size, range from 1% to 3 inches 
from the vessel's rim to its tip. The vessel form is common in pewter 
and often listed in American inventories of the I7th and 18th cen- 
turies.* However, despite the wide variety of American Protestant 
church plate, Alfred Jones was unable to list a single silver porringer 
among their holdings. Since tankards, standing cups, English por- 
ringers, mugs, beakers, flagons, and many domestic vessels all appeared 



=" A similar exercise with the Deringer might stress that role of honor in 1826 In America 
which convinced its outstanding elite of the necessity and correctness of the personal 
firearm. 

5 A very full discussion of terminology has recently appeared which stresses the inac- 
curacy of the English use of "porringer"' and "bleeding bowl" and adapts American practice. 
The Stuart period, 1603-1714, ed. Ralph Hughes and L. G. G. Ramsey, pp. 82-83. New 
York and London. No date. 

* Suffolk County (Mass.) Probate Record, Book XXIII, p. 381, Inventory of Samuel 
Tower, June 10, 1724 ; "To Pewter vizt. Platters, plates, tankard, basons, porringers 
3£ . . . 16." 



NEW ENGLAND PORRINGER — G ARYAN 545 

on American altars or communion tables, the absence of the American 
porringer strongly suggests that it not only did not fit Protestant 
ritual but also that it was seldom used for drinking quantities of 
mildly alcoholic liquors.® 

Moreover, this comparative mdependence cannot be laid to New 
England's provincial isolation or sturdy independence. In the matter 
of silver design, constant cultural contact and interchange took place. 
The migration of silversmiths, the semipublic church collections, and 
the descent of personal property by inheritance created a constantly 
shifting and changing pool of silver forms available to the curious 
artisan. Should he wish, he might closely follow English forms as 
did Robert Sanderson in his two-handled cup of 1670-85 which he 
chose to ornament heavily with the native American turkey and a 
farmyard hen.^ Yet even in this seemingly natural choice, he had 
been anticipated by Henry Greenway of London who in 1659 placed a 
parrot and a similar turkey cock among the tulips and asters (?) of 
a nearly identical repousse caudle cup.'' 

That New England should accept and develop the American por- 
ringer, despite such a close interchange of ideas and craftsmen, while 
Englishmen largely neglected the form, argues that in New England 
these porringers had a function not indicated by their name or by 
modem usage, and that their popularity, in fact, arose from their 
intimate adaptation to Puritan concepts and customs. Moreover, the 
evolution of the New England porringer suggests that many aspects 
of its design evolved as a consequence of Puritan idealism and homo- 
geneity and that, with the decline of the Puritan theocracy, the New 
England silver porringer tended to lose its individuality and 
eventually to disappear. 

The basic form of the New England porringer is not unique. 
Small, comparatively shallow silver vessels with one or sometimes 
two handles enjoyed popularity whenever exceedingly strong or thick 
alcoholic drinks became popular. The Scottish quaich ^ and English 
wine tasters both served much the same purpose as the New England 
porringer, but at the same time differed too markedly to have served 
as its progenitors. 

In base metals, porringers likewise were common. Introduced from 
France as ecuelle or potage dishes, pewter porringers retained their 
form and domestic and medical usefulness from the mid-16th century 
until the mid-19th century (pi. 2, fig. 1). Because of the softness of 
the metal and heavy usage, surviving domestic examples are rare, but 



s E. Alfred Jones, The old silver of American churches, p. LXXII. Letchworth. 1913. 

* Index of American cultures. Historical Massachusetts, No. 14, pp. 1-2. 

•^ Parke-Bernet Galleries, "An Important Collection of Early English Silver, 1580-1820." 
Catalog 17S9, p. 37. New York. 1957. 

8 Ian Finlay, Scottish gold and silver work, pis. 46-47. London. 1956. Two handles 
designed for passing ; small size for strong drink. 



546 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195S 

the use of molds tended to maintain the popularity of anachronistic 
designs long after abandonment by fashionable silversmiths.^ 
Clearly, with so many precedents the American silver porringer can- 
not be claimed as an innovation of British or Dutch colonists. It 
represents, however, a selection from European models which gained, 
if nmnbers and care of inanuf acture are any clue, a new meaning and 
importance in the colonies. 

Few American silver porringers can be dated earlier than 1685. 
At least two of the most celebrated of these claimants have either the 
handle or monogram located in the fashion of posset pot or skillet 
covers designed to serve as dishes for hot sauces.^" In this they follow 
established, though not common, English practice." Close indeed to 
the later American porringers, these covers have straight sides, cres- 
cent piercings, and distinctive initials on the bottom or the side of the 
bowl. Initials placed here indicate that they are intended to be read 
when the vessel is placed upside down as a cover on a skillet or sauce 
pot. Any use as a vessel would be secondary to their function as a 
cover (pi. 2, fig. 2). 

The use of the true American porringer must remain somewhat 
problematic. Its single handle suggests the probable need of a spoon, 
and the comparatively shallow depth that the mixture was often 
alcoholic since without that precious ingredient a few ounces of gruel 
would give little strength, physical or spiritual. The absence of the 
second handle reduces the primary use of the vessel as a wine or 
cool-drink taster, and the absence of an insulating material in the 
handle the use of the porringer in warming or preparing mixtures 
over an open flame.^- Moreover, the large size of the American type 
precludes its design as a bleeding bowl. Wliat remains then is a vessel 
designed for tasty dishes of strengthening gruel with a substantial 
but not excessive alcoholic content.^^ 

That the rise of the American silver porringer should occur 
in the I7th century is not surprising, since in this period it found some 



• In addition to The Stuart period, pp. 82-83, a full discussion of the pewter porringer 
has appeared: Percy E. Raymond, "What is a Porringer?" Pewter Collectors Club of 
America, Bull. No. 8, pp. 5-7. January 1941. 

1" Mrs. Russel Hastings, Verifying a Hull and Sanderson porringer, Antiques, vol. 32, 
pp. llfi-118, September 1937. Edwin .T. Hipkiss, The Philip LefBngwell Spalding Col- 
lection of early American silver, pp. 13-14. Boston. 1943. 

M 

"An English posset pot with cover and handle similar to A I piece is illustrated in 
Antiques, vol. 32, p. 118, and another in G. Bernard Hughes, Small antique silverware, 
p. 79. London. 1957. 

1' Holding such vessels over an open flame would only be possible for a very short time, 
and a simple experiment refutes the traditional English view. J. H. Buck, Old plate, 
its makers and marks, p. 103. New York. 1903. 

" The alternative position of describing all porringers as bleeding bowls because some 
were so used is clearly confuted in the very catalog v,-hich gave the practice its gri>atest 
prestige. Victoria and Albert Museum, Catalogue of English silversmith's work, civil and 
domestic. No. 73. London. 1920. 



NEW ENGLAND PORRINGER — GARVAN 547 

popularity in London. Its close resemblance to the French ecuelle 
and the existence of a few porringers with covers suggest the possi- 
bility that it was introduced by Huguenot craftsmen migrating to both 
England and America.^* Certainly the porringer by Rene Grignon, 
Huguenot emigre (pi. 3, fig. 1), strongly resembles work done in 
Canada by other French silversmiths (pi. 3, fig. 2), and at the same 
time seems to have been closely followed by Jeremiah Dummer in his 

P 
porringer for unknown patrons whose initials were E A (pi. 4, fig. 1) . 
Moreover, both the Grignon porringer marked for a couple married 
in 1692 and the Dummer porringer have initials cut so as to read 
when the vessel is placed lip upward, as when used for service and 
not as a dish cover. 

At this point, the Huguenot, the English, and the American por- 
ringer seem very close in purpose, design, and ornament. All have 
initials on the open bowl side of the handle and piercings of the handle 
of tulips, crescents, and hearts contained in a vinelike silhouette. 

However, after 1690 the American silver porringer rapidly devel- 
oped along highly individual lines. In England the porringer gained 
little popularity and became restricted to the medical practice of 
cupping and bleeding. The French ecuelle continued to develop as 
a large covered two-eared soup dish elaborately decorated in the 
Rococo fashion.^^ But in America and especially in the Calvinistic 
colonies of New England and of New York the porringer, as intro- 
duced by the Huguenots or as developed from the skillet pot cover, 
represented a new and welcome addition to church plate models com- 
monly available.^ ^ That it was closely associated with the refugee 
Calvinistic Huguenots robbed it of the Papist taint which hung over 
the great hoards of pirated Spanish plate occasionally seen in Boston.^^ 

The basic chronology of American porringers rests upon the work- 
ing and death dates of their makers. The attribution of initials, while 
informative and of great interest, can only suggest the date of manu- 
facture. The following table indicates (1) the working dates of the 
silversmiths whose work is illustrated or discussed, and (2) the dates 
of those illustrated by Bigelow together with the handle types of each 
example : 



1* The best example of these, unmarked, but with a handle similar to John Coney's 
work is in the Metropolitan Museum. An elaborate cover with gadrooning and cut card 
work surmounts a 6% -inch bowl. Francis H. Bigelow, Historic silver of the colonies and 
its makers, pp. 310-311. New York. 1931. 

« Louia Carre, A guide to old French plate. New York. 1931. Illustrations unmarked. 

18 Samuel Sewall speaks of special measures taken to accommodate the Huguenots. 
S. Sewall, Diary, vol. 2, p. 262, note 407. 

" Most famous was that of William Kidd, Gillam, Bradshaw and Witherly. "Iron chest 
of plate and pearls, 40 bails of East India goods, 13 other cases, and two slaves or servants." 
February 1699-1700. Samuel Sewall, Diary, vol. 2, pp. 3-5, 7. 



548 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Maker Date Handle type 

1. John Hull c. 1644^1683 Skillet. 

Robert Sanderson c. 1630-1693 Skillet. 

Rene Grignon c. 1691-1713 Huguenot. 

DavidJesse c. 1690-1705 Puritan. 

Jeremiah Dummer c. 1665-1718 Huguenot, Puritan. 

John Coney c. 1676-1722 Puritan. 

Peter Oliver c. 1702-1712 Huguenot. 

William Jones c. 1715-1730 Puritan-Rococo transition. 

Jonathan Clarke c. 1734 Rococo. 

Samuel Edwards c. 1725-1762 Rococo. 

Rufus Greene c. 1727-1777 Chinese Chippendale. 

William Cowell, Jr c. 1733-1761 Chinese Chippendale. 

2. Peter Oliver c. 1702-1712 Huguenot. 

Jeremiah Dummer c. 1665-1718 Huguenot, Puritan. 

Samuel Vernon c. 1703-1735 Puritan. 

Andrew Tyler c. 1712-1741 Rococo. 

John Edwards c. 1691-1746 Puritan, Chinese Chippendale. 

Edward Winslow c. 1689-1753 Puritan, Rococo, 



In both lists the order of appearance of handles seems to be Skillet, 
Hugenot, Puritan, Kococo, Chinese Chippendale. In exceptionally 
long lives, like that of Edward Winslow or John Edwards, more than 
one type appears. 

Moreover, the marking of porringers suggests an erotic significance 
as the mark of the fertility of a married couple. Just as the tankard 
is closely though not exclusively associated with communion and the 
concept of election, the porringer seems to have marked another step 
in the hierarchy of the ideal Puritan life.^^ The point at which fer- 
tility was celebrated remains obscure. It seems to be marked occa- 
sionally after the birth of a single child, but much more often in 
middle adult years shortly after the birth of the last of several 
children.^^ The occasional association of spoons might imply use at 
confinement for strengthening gruels. (PL 7, fig. 1.) Since the ini- 
tials were most often those of man and wife and not of child, and 
since the dishes lacked the additional silver loop below and at right 
angles to the main handle commonly found in pap bowls, it can be 
assumed that the valuable silver porringer was like the silver tankard, 
principally a mark of status shared by man and wife and not a func- 
tional weaning appliance to be loosely handled by nurse and infant.^** 

The voids of porringer handles, while not altogether explicit in 
their iconography, represent an apparently conscious effort on the part 

"Edmund S. Morgan, The Puritan family, p. 10. Boston. 1956. Samuel Willard. A 
compleat body of divinity, p. 679. 

" Tlie conclusion is tentative and based upon published porringers and a cursory exami- 
nation of those In the Yale Gallery of Fine Arts and a comparison of makers' work dates 
and owners' life dates. 

=^This point has been largely overlooked, but of Bigelow's selection of 12 New England 
porringers between 1685-1753, 7 have been attributed to man and wife, 2 are not identified, 
3 have other attributions. Bigelow, Historic silver, pp. 305-314 ; Ramsey Traquair, The 
old silver of Quebec, pi. III. Toronto. 1940. 



NEW ENGLAND PORRINGER — GARVAN 549 

of Colonial silversmiths to create a meaningful symbolism, a sym- 
bolism which reflects the New England divergence from English 
views on church and state followed by the gradual substitution of 
Royal authority and merchant goals in the place formerly held by 
the theocratic government and ideals of the Massachusetts Bay 
Company. 

French colonial work of the period seems to have combined heart 
and scallop-shell motifs in various ways. (PL 3, fig. 2.) The heart 
as a symbol of sanctioned love and divine fervor and the scallop as 
the vehicle of Venus which carried strong and possibly direct sexual 
connotations were combined sometimes with the vine of the Lord's 
vineyard and sometimes with an escutcheon suitably initialed. Despite 
the use of the escutcheon, a typical British and Puritan device, the 
early porringer remained in part an uncovered ecuelle, French in 
feeling. ( PL 4, figs. 1 and 2. ) 

This handsome design seems to have persisted only in the brief 
career of Peter Oliver (1682-1712) (pi. 5, fig. 1). More typical of 
New England were the so-called geometric handles which might be 
more appropriately termed Puritan design. Diverging sharply from 
both London and French practice, these handles closely paralleled 
official Puritan views on love and marriage and symbolized at once 
religious concern and married love. (PL 5, fig. 2.) 

"There is, therefore, no comparison so much used in the Scriptures 
to represent the mutual love between Christ and His Church as that 
which is between a Man and his Wife.'''' ^ Or again from the New 
England Primer of 1727 : 

H My Book and Heart 
Shall never part. 

These piercings have at their base QQ, a small opening cut to 
imitate the tablets of the Decalogue required by law to hang in 
English churches as the primary symbol of the English Reformation 
and its attack on Catholic iconography.^^ The tablets especially 
suited the Puritan in New England since they combined a reference 
to the Old Testament with a reminder of the virtue of religious learn- 
ing and at the same time gave no undue concessions to the role of the 
crown in the determination of religious practice.^ They were so used 
on the title page of the popular and influential "New English Tutor." 
The other piercings are less clear. The quatrefoil occurs commonly 
in both a symmetrical and asymmetrical shape and in many different 
positions. Trefoils are less common decorative piercings. Whether 
either had a commonly understood symbolism, it is difficult to say. 

" Samuel Willard, A compleat body of divinity, p. 679. Boston. 1726. 

^ G. W. O. Addleshaw and Fredericlc Etchells, The arcliitectural setting of Anglican 
worship, p. 35. London. No date. The Eoyal Order of 1561 made oflBclal a recent custom. 

^ This last made the use of Royal Arms and symbols especially objectionable to Puritans. 
Sewall, Diary, vol. 1, p. 158 ; vol. 3, p. 159. 



550 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

Regular quatrefoils appear on communion tables where their Chris- 
tian significance and association must have been understood.^* Irregu- 
lar quatrefoils suggest knots, a well-understood symbol of marriage. 
On the other hand, many tombstone makers put on grave markers 
fully rounded bands of fruit and leaves. These fruits hang in pairs 
and have been described as pomegranates or figs. The one, the sym- 
bol of Resurrection, would be incongruous with the other elements 
of the porringer handle. The latter, a symbol of earthly prosperity, 
would fit the porringer in design and purpose. Figs would seem 
the most likely symbol since they might appropriately fit both the tre- 
foil and the quatrefoil of the Coney or Puritan porringer.^-' 

Tulips or lilies are the closest link to earlier styles and seem also 
to reflect a conscious symbolism. Their presence on a porringer as 
upon household articles suggests Christian love or even the ecstasy 
of divine revelation, a doctrine strongly emphasized by the Puritan 
concept of election. This correlation of physical love and the vision 
of divinity seemed, of course, a reasonable one borne out by the 
use of the tulip or lily on New England marriage chests. Moreover, 
this link is closely forged in the decorative motifs of Pennsylvania 
where the symbolism is made doubly apparent in poetic imagery. 
Combined with the tablets, hearts, trefoils and quatrefoils, and with 
initials most usually attributed to married couples, the porringer gave 
a very real and positive affirmation of orthodox Puritan doctrine 
which heartily applauded lusty and legitimate unions as the founda- 
tion of God's chosen people. 

. . . Now a conjugal Love is that which is adapted for conjugal Society and 
by it Persons are fitted to a cheerful Discharge of all the Duties which belong 
to them in that Relation : Nor can they be truly and sincerely discharged with- 
out it. And as this Love is that which only can make the married state truly 
Comfortable and Happy . . . and the want of it is that which makes so many 
Matches so unhappy as is too obvious among men.'^ 

The other piercings of this Puritan porringer are more controver- 
sial. Crescents have a nearly universal lunar symbolism and cer- 
tainly 17th-century poetry often refers to the moon as the 
guardian of lovers. Single circles are less clear. Often present, they 
may represent a simplified version of the flaming host often engraved 
upon English communion cups and the sun of Judgment Day common 
on tombstones, or, on the other hand, may only serve as a functional 
purpose in the design. Significantly, whatever their interpretation, 
they introduce no false note in the combination of Puritan symbols 
of love and scripture which fill the larger part of the handle. 



*» Wallace Nutting, Furniture treasury, vol. 1, pi. 811. New York. 1948. For an 
English example with grapevine and wheat(?), see Luke V. Lockwood, Colonial furniture 
in America, vol. 2, p. 169. New York. 1951. 

»3 Harriette M. Forbes, Gravestones of early New England, 1653-1800, pp. 23, 28, 29, 
122, 123. Boston. 1927. 

29 Willard, Compleat body of divinity, pp. 679-680. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Garvan 



PLATE 1 




1. Dcringcr used by John Wilkes Booth to assassinate Abraham Lincol 
Courtesy of National Park Service. 




2. Platter, "Landing of General Lai'ay^ue at Castle Garden, New York, 16 August 1824." 
Marked: Clews warranted Staffordshire. Courtesy of Henry F. DuPont Winterthur 
Museum. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Garvan 



Plate 2 




1. Pewter bleeding bowl b}- John Foster, London, after 1741. 




2. Porringer by John Hull and Robert Sanderson (c. 1655-83). Courtesy of Museunn of 

Fine Arts, Boston. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Garvan 



Plate 3 




1. Porringer by Rene Grignon after 1692. Courtesy of Mabel Brady Garvan Collection, 

Yale University Art Gallery. 




h 




2. French Canadian ecuelle, Hotel Dieu, Quebec. Courtesy of Macmillan, Toronto. 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Garvan 



Plate 4 




1. Porrin;,'er b\' Jcrcmiali Dummer (c. 1665-1718). Courtesy of Worcester Art Museum. 




2. Porringer by Jeremiah Dummer (c. 1670-80). Courtesy of Museum of Fine Arts, 

Boston. 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Garvan 



PLATE 5 




u 



I o 

■:=. ^ 
o -^ 



Oh 



Smithsonian Report, 1958. — Garvan 



Plate 6 




^} 






u > 












^S6 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Garvan 



Plate 7 





— . u 



O (71 



i Ph 



Uliui^Mmmm^ 



w'lUMm ^ 



Smithsonian Report. 1958. — Garvan 



Plate 8 







U 







::^ 



6 >H 



M "o 
3. U 



(J 



M 



Cl, 



NEW ENGLAND PORRINGER — GARY AN 551 

Makers' marks provide additional confirmation of tlie basic trend 
in piercing design. Since they are the consequence of the careful 
and exact manufacture of punches, they combined the artisan's con- 
cept of a significant outline with what he was certain would not 
offend his patrons. Significantly, the heart appears in tlie marks of 
five of the most celebrated early silversmiths — Robert Sanderson, 
John Hull, Jeremiah Dummer, John Coney, and Peter Oliver. It was 
rivaled in frequency only by the shield of John Edwards, Benjamin 
Hiller, George Hanners, Joseph Glidden, Jolin Burt, and John Coney. 
The tablet appears in the mark of Sanderson and Hull onl}^, the 
sunburst most notably in Sanderson's work. Rarest of all, a book on 
stand (?) suggesting the outline of a pulpit framed the EW of 
Edward Winslow. How to weigh the clear division between the 
earlier heart mark and the later escutcheon must remain indetermi- 
nate. Both are common in English marks, among many other forms 
almost totally unknown in New England. Both represent aspects 
of religious values strongly emphasized by Puritanism: on the one 
hand, divine love or revelation, on the other, personal acliievement. 
The gradual emergence of the latter closely paralleled the rise of 
Royal government and the decline of the theocratic party after 1690. 

The development of the iconography of the Puritan handle like- 
wise seems to follow closely the decline of Puritan prestige. 
Significantly the first element to disappear is the silhouette of the 
tablets which in one Coney piece seems to have been actually re- 
shaped into an ample tulip (pi. 6, fig. 1), and in another piece by 
David Jesse (Smithsonian) to have been altered by filing. Coinci- 
dentally, or soon thereafter, the trefoils, quatrefoils, and circles 
vanish before the onslaught of sheafs of wheat and other new forms. 
Hearts, crescents, and tulips (lilies) maintain for a time their im- 
portance, but become distorted and agitated into more violent angles 
and shapes (pi. 6, fig. 2 : pi. 7, fig. 1) . 

Significantly, these shapes no longer determine the pattern of the 
handle but must adapt themselves to the sinuous vinelike outline of 
the handle's outside edge. Wliile remaining symmetrical, the handle 
manages to suggest the movement and distortion of the Rococo. 
Mantlings added to initials mark the increased role of personal 
achievement (pi. 7, fig. 2). Meanwhile, new openings unfamiliar in 
their pattern to Puritan iconography have begun to appear. Some- 
times the vine encloses horns of plenty, at another time cockle shells. 
Gradually the vine becomes more explicit and realistic until, as in 
Chinese Chippendale furniture, it quite dominates the design. (PL 
8, figs. 1 and 2.) A significant aberration of this handle type was 
made by Joseph Richardson, Sr., in 1775, when for Thomas Paine he 



552 ANl^TLTAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 

cut a star directly in the center of the porringer handle which Paine 
gave "his esteemed friend Dr. Rush." ^^ 

The maker of the porringer shown in plate 8, figure 1, Ruf us Greene, 
died in 1777, 85 years after the Rene Grignon porringer of 1692. In 
that period, a silver form, probably borrowed from the persecuted 
Calvinistic Huguenots or from neglected English practice, had been 
modified and developed by Puritan craftsmen according to Puritan 
ideology and accepted iconography. This complete, if somewhat self- 
conscious, form had in turn yielded to the sinuous enchantments of 
the Rococo, of a rediscovered nature, and the awakening of a natural- 
istic iconography, as Puritanism itself had fallen victim to the 
Enlightenment on the one hand and to the Great Awakening on the 
other. 

The handles, then, of the porringers call attention to the role of 
the Huguenot in Boston society at the turn of the 18th century. 
The acceptance of his ecuelle as a suitable form for a gift measures 
his acceptance by Puritan orthodoxy, the appeal of his novel skill 
to Bostonians, and suggests the boredom of a homogeneous society 
with the Puritan temper. The initial purging of the French forms 
and their recombination into an acceptable Puritan formula indicate 
the strength of the orthodox party and the extraordinary extent of 
its influence. The rise of Rococo ornament more closely associated 
with natural forms and the corresponding decline of Puritan symbols 
parallel the increasing importance of materialism and of Royal 
government in the determination of taste and, by implication, of 
society itself. Such matters difficult to measure in the partisan writ- 
ings of the few sometimes find their best reflection in the overt sug- 
gestion of customary artifacts. 



^ Collectors notes, Antiques, vol. 75, p. 194, February 1959. This choice of handle in- 
dicates the maker's and possibly the donor's direct concern with the iconography of the 
voids in the porringer handle. 



INDEX 



Abbot, C. G., X 

Accessions, 12, 68, 76, 77, 78, 96, 110, 
131, 134, 141, 143, 197, 210 

Bureau of American Etlinology, 76, 

77, 78, 80 
Freer Gallery of Art, 110 
Library, 210 

National Air Museum, 131, 134 
National Collection of Fine Arts, 

96 
National Gallery of Art, 197 
National Museum, 12 
National Zoological Park, 141, 143 
River Basin Surveys, 68 
Allen, Gordon (Does natural selection 
continue to operate in modern man- 
kind?), 359 
Anderson, Clinton P., regent of the 

Institution, v, 5, 41, 126 
Anderson, Robert B., Secretary of the 
Treasury, member of the Institution, 
v, viii, 196 
Anglim, John E., vi, 36 
Appropriations, 5, 6, 50, 140, 188, 197, 
232 
Astrophysical Observatory, 6 
Bureau of American Ethnology, 6 
Canal Zone Biological Area, 6 
International Exchange Service, 6, 

188 
National Air Museum, 6 
National Collection of Fine Arts, 6 
National Gallery of Art, 6, 197, 232 
National Museum, 6 
National Zoological Park, 6, 140, 

232 
River Basin Surveys, 6, 50, 232 
Aschemeier, Charles R., 44 
Astrophysical Observatory, vii, 6, 9, 82 
Appropriation, 6 
Astrophysical Research, Division 

of, 82 
Publications, 87, 93, 221 
Radiation and Organisms, Division 

of, 90 
Report, 82 
Staff, vii 
Audit, 209, 232 

National Gallery of Art, 209 
Smithsonian private funds, 232 

B 

Backwash of the frontier. The : The im- 
pact of the Indian on American cul- 
ture (A. Irving Hallowell), 447 

Baird, Thomas P., 203, 204 



Baker, Thomas G., 36 

Bales, Richard, 208, 209 

Barker, Bert, 169 

Bartsch, Paul, ix 

Bass, William M., Ill, 53, 54, 62, 65, 

66, 70 
Bassler, R. S., ix 
Battison, E. A., vii, 31 
Bayer, F. M., vi 

Beggs, Thomas M., Director, National 
Collection of Fine Arts, viii, 95, 108, 
109 
Belin, Ferdinand Lammot, viii, 196 
Bell, Donald B., 169 
Bennett, C. F., Jr., 184 
Benson, Elizabeth, 203 
Benson, Ezra Taft, Secretary of Agri- 
culture, member of the Institution, v 
Biebighauser, Ernest E., 221 
Bio-Sciences Information Exchange, 7 
Bishop, P. W., vii, 32 
Blake, John B., vii, 32, 43 
Blaker, Mrs. Margaret C, 75 
Blanchard, Ruth E., librarian of the 

Institution, v, 11, 213, 214 
Blest, A. D., 184 
Bliss, Robert Woods, 95 
Boardman, Richard S., vi, 28, 44 
Borgogni, Judith, 36 
Bory, Bela S., vi, 44 
Bouton, Dr., 206 
Bowers, Alfred, 66 
Bowman, T. E., vi 
Boyle, W. E., vi 
Braced-up Cliff at Pueblo Bonito, The 

(Neil M.Judd), 501 
Bredin, J. Bruce, ix 
Briggs, R. E., vii 

Brooks, Overton, regent of the Institu- 
tion, V, 5 
Brown, Janice S., 213 
Brown, John Nicholas, regent of the 

Institution, v, 5, 95 
Brown, R. W., ix 
Brown, William L., vi, 37 
Bruns, Franklin R., Jr., 44 
Buchanan, Lee L., 45 
Bullen, K. E. (Earthquakes and related 
sources of evidence on the earth's 
internal structure) , 319 
Bureau of American Ethnology, vii, 6, 8, 
46, 220 
Appropriation, 6 
Archives, 75 
Collections, 76, 77, 78, 80 
Editorial work and publications, 
78, 220 

553 



554 



AJS[NUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 



Bureau of American Ethnology — Cent. 

Illustrations, 78 

Miscellaneous, 81 

Report, 46 

River Basin Surveys, 50 

Staff, vii, 80 

Systematic researches, 46 
Byrd, Mrs. Mabel A., vi, 38 

O 

Cahill, J. F., viii, 119, 122, 125 
Cairns, Huntington, viii, 196, 209 
Caldwell, Warren W., 58. 65, 69 
Campbell, Leon, Jr., 86, 89 
Campbell, William P., 203 
• Canal Zone Biological Area, viii, 6, 9, 180 
Acknowledgments, 186 
Appropriation, 6 

Buildings, equipment, and improve- 
ments, 183 
Finances, 185 

Plans and requirements, 184 
Rainfall, 182 
Report, 180 
Scientists, students, and observers, 

180 
Visitors, 181 
Cannon, Clarence, regent of the Institu- 
tion, V, 5, 232 
Canter, A. L., 169 

Carmichael, Leonard, Secretary of the 
Institution, v, viii, 37, 38, 39, 95, 127, 
142, 196 
Carriker, M. A., ix 
Cartwright, O. L., vi. 
Casey, Louis S., viii, 126 
Chace, F. A., Jr., vi 
Chancellor (Earl Warren, Chief Justice 

of the United States), v 
Chauning, James, 33 
Chapelle, Hov.ard I., vii, 30, 43 
Chapman, Car], 66 
Chase, Mrs. Agnes, ix 
Chemical elements, The abundance of 

the (HansE. Suess), 307 
Chief Justice of the United States (Earl 
Warren, Chancellor of the Institu- 
tion), V, viii, 196 
Christensen, Erwiu O., 203 
Clain-Stefanilli, Mrs. Elvira, vii, 43 
Clain-Stefanelli, Vladimir, vii, 34 
Clark, Mrs. Leila F., 11, 212 
Clark, Mrs. Margaret C, vii 
Clark, T. F., treasurer of the Institu- 
tion, V 
Clarke, Gilmore D., 95 
Clarke, J. F. Gates, vi, 25 
Clarke, Roy S., Jr., vi, 44 
Cloud, Preston, ix 
Cochran, Doris M., vi 
Collins, Henry B., Jr., vii, 47 
Collins, J. A., Chief, International 

Exchange Service, viii, 11, 195 
Compton, Arthur H., regent of the Insti- 
tution, V, 5 
Conger, P. S., vi 
Coogan, Alan H., 70 



Cooke, C. Wythe, ix 

Cooke, Hereward Lester, 203 

Cooper, G. Arthur, vi, 5, 27 

Cott, Perry B., viii, 196, 203 

Courtais, Henri G., 108 

Cowan, Richard S., vi, 24 

Cox, Donald (Rocketry), 261 

Crabill, R. E., Jr., vi, 25 

Crawford, Frederick C, x, 126 

Crist, Raymond E. (Acculturation in 

the Guajira), 481 
Cunningham, L. E., 86 
Cutress, 0. E., Jr., vi 

D 

Dale, Chester, viii, 196 

Daniels, Farrington (The sun's 
energy), 237 

Danjon, A., 87 

Darwin-Wallace centenary, The (Sir 
Gavin de Beer), 333 

Davis, Malcolm, 169, 170 

Davis, Robert J., vii, 84 

de Beer, Sir Gavin (The Darwin- 
Wallace centenary), 333 

Deetz, James J. F., 64, 65, 70 

Deiguan, H. G., vi 

DePrato, Mario, 169, 170 

Desautels, Paul E., vi, 44 

Dixon, Rear Adm. R. E., viii, 127 

Dobzhansky, Theodosius (Does natural 
selection continue to operate in mod- 
ern mankind ?) , 359 

Docent service, 41 

Donors and their gifts (see under 
Accessions ) 

Doolittle, Lt. Gen. James H., viii, 127 

Dorman, Charles G., vii, 33, 35 

Drake, C. J., ix 

Dulles, John Poster, Secretary of State, 
member of the Institution, v, viii 

Dunkle, David H., vi, IS, 28 

E 

Earthquakes and related sources of evi- 
dence on the earth's internal struc- 
ture (K. E. Bullen), 319 

Ecology of man, The (Paul B. Sears), 
375 

Eddy, William B., 36 

Edelen, Mrs. Eloise B., 78, 220 

Eisenhower, Dwight D., President of the 
United States, Presiding Officer ex- 
officio, V 

Elder, R. A., Jr., vi, 24 

Elstad, Victors., vii, 90 

Establishment, The, v, 4 

Ettinghausen, Richard, viii, 118, 119, 
120, 121, 122, 123, 124 

Evans, Clifford, Jr., vi, 23 

Evans, Dr., 206 



INDEX 



555 



Ewers, John C, vi, 42 

(A century of American Indian 
exhibits in the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution), 513 
Executive Committee of the Board of 
Regents, v, 223, 232 
Members, v, 232 
Keport, 223 

Appropriations, 232 

Assets, 227 

Audit, 232 

Cash balances, receipts, and 

disbursements, 228 
Classification of investments, 

226 
Consolidated fund, 224 
Freer Gallery of Art fund, 226 
Gifts, 229 
Parent fund, 223 
Summary of endowments, 226 
Unexpended funds and endow- 
ment, 227 
Exhibitions, 37, 103, 109, 201 

National Collection of Fine Arts, 

109 
National Gallery of Art, 201 
National Museum. 37 
Traveling, 103, 201 
Explorations and lieldwork, 22, 46, 54 
Bureau of American Ethnology, 4G 
National Museum, 22 
River Basin Surveys, 54 



F 



Farrell, Mrs. Lynne. S6 
Feidler, Ernest R., viii, 196 
Feinstein, B. R., 25 
Ferguson, Eugene S., vii, 30, 43 
Field, W. D., vi 
Finances, 5, 185, 223 

Canal Zone Biological area, 185 

{See also Appropriations) 
Finley, David E., 95 
Fireman, Edward L., vii, 85 
Fleming, Robert V., regent of the Insti- 
tution, V. 5, 232 
Folsom, Marion B., Secretary of Health. 
Education, and Welfare, member of 
the Institution, v 
Freer Gallery of Art, viii, 9, 110 

Attendance, 115 

Auditorium, 116 

Building, 115 

Changes in exhibitions. Ill 

Collections, 110 

Herzfeld Archive, 115 

Lectures, 116, 119 

Library, 112 

Publications, 113, 221 

Repairs to the collections, 11 1 

Report, 110 

Reproductions, 115 

Staff, viii 

Activities of, 117 
Fresh water for arid lands (David S. 
Jenkins), 285 



Friedmanu, Herbert, vi, 24 
Froiland, Alfred G., vii, 82 
Fugle, Eugene, 66 
Fyfe, Howard, 175 

G 

Gallagher, Bernard, 170 

Garber, Paul E., viii, 11, 127, 128, 129 

Gardner, Paul V., vii, 33, 43 

Garvan, Anthony N. B., vii, 5, 33, 43 
(The New England porringer: An 
index of custom), 543 

Gaziu, C. L., vi, 17, 27, 28 

Gazin, Mrs. Elisabeth H., 213 

Genius, The childhood pattern of 
(Harold G. McCurdy), 527 

Gettens, R. J., viii, 118, 120, 121, 122, 
123 124 

Gifts,' 141, 185, 229 

(See also under Accessions) 

Ginsberg, Isaac, ix 

Glance, Grace E., 44 

Goins, Craddock R., Jr., vii, 36 

Golden, Bernard, 65, 70 

Goodrich, Lloyd, 95 

Grabar, Oleg, x 

Graf, John E., ix, 19 

Graham, D. C, ix 

Grant, R. E., 27 

Greenewalt, Crawford H., regent of the 
Institution, v, 5 

Greenwood, Mrs. Arthur M., ix 

Griffenhagen, George B., vii, 31 

Griffith, F. O., Ill, vii 

Grimmer, J. Lear, viii, 11, 169, 170 

Guajira, Acculturation in the (Ray- 
mond E. Crist), 481 

Guest, Grace Dunham, x 

H 

Hale, Mason E., Jr., vi, 15, 24 

Hallowell, A. Irving (The backwash of 
the frontier : The impact of the In- 
dian on Americiin culture), 447 

Hancock, Walker, 95 

Haudle.v, Charles O., Jr., vi, 13, 25 

Harrington, John P., ix, 80 

Harrison, J. H., vii 

Hartle, Donald D., 63, 69 

Haskins, Caryl P., regent of the Insti- 
tution, V, 5, 232 

Hawkins, G. S., 85 

Hayes, Bartlett, 95 

Hemphill, Barbara, 75 

Henderson, Edward P., vi, 28, 85 

Herber, Elmer C, ix 

Hilger, Sister M. Inez, ix 

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., ix 

Hodge, Paul, 85 

Hood, Maj. Gen. Reuben C, Jr., viii, 127 

Hopkins, Philip S., Director, National 
Air Museum, viii, 11, 126, 139 

Howard, James H., 53, 66 

Howell, A. B., ix 

Howell, E. M., vii, 36 

Hower, R. O., vi 



556 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1958 



Hunsaker, Jerome C, regent of the In- 
stitution, V, 5 
Hurt, Wesley R., Jr., 66 
Huscher, Harold A., 54, 60, 63, 70 
Hynek, J. Allen, vii, 84, 86, 87, 89, 90 



Ide, Capt. John J., x, 126 
Indian, The impact of the, on American 
culture. The backwash of the frontier : 
( A. Irving Hallowell ) , 447 
Indian exhibits in the Smithsonian 
Institution, A century of American 
(John C. Ewers), 513 
International Exchange Service, viii, 
6, 9, 187 

Appropriation, 6. 188 
Foreign depositories of govern- 
mental documents, 189 
Foreign exchange services, 194 
Parliamentary exchange of the offi- 
cial journal, 191 
Publications sent and received, 188 
Report, 187 
Ireland, R. R., Jr., vi 
Irving, Laurence, ix, 13 
Irving, William N., 60, 64, 65, 70 



Jacchia, Luigi G., vii, 84, 85, 86, GO 

Jellison, W. L., ix 

Jenkins, David S. (Fresh water for arid 

lands), 285 
Johnson, D. H., vi 
Judd, N. M., ix 

The Braced-up Cliff at Pueblo Bon- 
ito),501 
Junior League docent service, 41 



K 



Kainen, Jacob, vii, 32 

Kavras, Mrs. B. A., 36 

Keddy, J. L., Assistant Secretary of the 
Institution, v 

Kellogg, A. Remington, Assistant Secre- 
tary of the Institution, v, vi, 10, 45 

Kendall, E. C, vii, 31 

Kenyon, Karl W. (The sea otter) , 399 

Kestner, F. B., chief, photographic lal> 
oratory. 

Kier, Porter M., vi, 28, 29, 44 

Killip, E. P., ix 

King, Earl A., 169 

King, W. J., Jr., vii, 31 

Klapthor, Mrs. Margaret B., vii, 35 

Klein, William H., vii, 90, 93 

Knight, J. B., ix 

Knipling, E. F. (Screwworm eradica- 
tion: Concepts and research leading 
to the sterile-male method), 409 

Kress, Rush H., viii, 196 

Krieger, Herbert W., ix, 44 

Krook, Max, vii, 83 



Lachner, E. A., vi 

Lato, Stephen E., 175 

Lautman, D., 86 

Lawless, Benjamin W., Jr., vi, 36 

Lea, John S., 218 

Lectures, 7, 116, 128, 129, 203 

Leonard, E. C, vi 

Lewton, F. L., ix 

Library, 10, 110, 207, 210 

Freer Gallery of Art, 110, 
National Gallery of Art, 207 
Smithsonian, 210 
Accessions, 210 
Report, 210 
Summarized statistics, 213 

Lindsay, G. Carroll, vii, 35 

Lingebach, John C, 37 

Loehr, Max, x 

Loeniug, Grover, viii, 127 

Lyon, Rowland, 108 

M 

MacDonald, Roger, 140 

MacKay, F. W., ix 

MacManus, Ruth B., 216 

Madison, Lee G., 65 

Male, W. M., viii 

Mann, W. M., x 

Manship, Paul, 95 

.Martin, Glenn J'., 108 

McCall, Francis J., vii, 34 

McCance, Ellen, 125 

McCIure, F. A., ix 

McCurdy, Harold G. (The childhood 
pattern of genius) , 527 

McElroy, Neil H., Secretary of Defense, 
member of the Institution, v 

McUhenny, Henry P., 95 

Mcintosh, Allen, ix 

McNutt, Charles H., 62, 65, 66, 70 

Meggers, Betty J., ix, 23 

Mellon, Paul, viii, 196 

Meltzer, Alan S., 83 

Members of the Institution, v 

Michelson, Mrs., 206-207 

Miller, Carl F., 49, 53, 54 

Mitchell, James P., Secretary of Labor, 
member of the Institution, v 

Modena, William G., 169 

Moh, Carl C, 92 

Mongan, Elizabeth, 203, 204 

Moore, J. P., ix 

Morrison, J. P. E., vi 

ilorton, C. v., vi, 24 

Moynihan, Martin H., Resident Natu- 
ralist, Canal Zone Biological Area, 
viii, 11, 186 

Muesebeck, C. F. W., ix 

Mulloy, William, 66 

Multhauf, Robert P., vii, 29 

Murray, Mrs. Anne W., vii, 33 

Museum of History and Technology, vi, 
3, 29, 41, 43 

Building, 3, 41, 42 
Staff, vi 



INDEX 



557 



Museum of Natural History, vi, 4, 42, 43 
Staff, vi 
Wings, 4, 42 



N 



National Air Museum, viii, 6, 9, 126 

Accessions, 134 

Advisory Board, viii, 127 

Appropriation, 6 

Assistance to Government depart- 
ments, 130 

Improvements in exhibits, 129 

Public information service, 130 

Reference material and acknowl- 
edgements, 131 

Repair, preservation, and restora- 
tion, 130 

Report, 126 

Special events, 127 

Staff, viii 
National Collection of Fine Arts, viii, 6, 
9,95 

Accessions, 96 

Appropriation, 6 

Art works lent, 98 

Barney, Alice Pike, Memorial 
Fund, 101 

Information service and staff activ- 
ities, 107 

Loans returned to the Smithsonian, 
96 

Myer, Catherine Walden, Fund, 96 

Ranger, Henry Ward, Fund, 101 

Report, 95 

Smithsonian Art Commission, 95 

Smithsonian lending collection, 100 

Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition 
Service, 103 

Special exhibitions, 109 

Withdrawals by owners, 96 
National Gallery of Art, viii, 10, 196, 
232 

Accessions, 197 

Activities, curatorial, 203 
Other, 208 

Appropriation, 6, 197, 232 

Attendance, 197 

Audit, 209 

Educational program, 205 

Exhibitions, 201 

Gifts, 197, 209 

Index of American Design, 207 

Library, 207 

Maintenance of building and 
grounds, 208 

Officials, viii, 196 

Organization, 198 

Personnel, 197 

Publications, 204 

Report, 196 

Restoration, 204 

Traveling exhibitions, 201 

Trustees, viii. 196 

Works of art lent, 200 

Works of art on loan, 199 

Works of art on loan returned, 199 



National Museum, vi, 6, 7, 12 
Appropriation, 6 
Buildings and equipment, 41 
Collections, 12 
Docent service, 41 
Exhibitions, 37 
Exploration and fieldwork, 22 
Organization and staff. Changes in, 

41 
Report, 12 
Staff, vi, 43 
National Zoological Park, viii, 6, 9, 140, 
232 

Animals in the collection on June 

30, 1958, 146 
Appropriation, 6, 168, 232 
Births and hatchings, 143 
Cooperation, 175 
Exchanges, 143 
Exhibits, 140 
Finances, 168 
Gaur, 168 
Gifts, 141 
Giraffes, 166 
Grounds, buildings, and enclosures, 

177 
Information and education, 169 
Personnel, 169 
Plans for the future, 179 
Purchases, 143 
Report, 140 

Status of the collections, 145 
Veterinarian's report, 171 
Visitors, 173 
Natui-al selection. Does [it] continue to 
operate in modern mankind? (Theo- 
dosius Dobzhansky and Gordon 
Allen), 359 
Neuman, Robert W., 58, 59, 60, 64, 65, 

71 
Newman, J. B., chief, personnel divi- 
sion, V 
Newman, M. T., vi, 23 
Nielson, George J., 84 
Nixon, Richard M., Vice President of 
the United States, member of the 
Institution, v, 5 
Norris, Ralph, 169 

O 

Oakley, Kenneth ( Tools makyth man), 

431 
Oehser, Paul H., chief, editorial and 

publications division, v, 222 
Officials of the Institution, v 
Oliver, L. L., building manager, v 
Organization and staff, changes in, 10 
Ott, John E., 29 



Paradiso, John L., 13, 25 

Parfin, Sophy, vi 

Pearce, Franklin, 17, 27 

Pearson, Mrs. Louise M., administrative 

assistant to the Secretary, v 
Peri-y, Kenneth M., vii, 31 
Perrygo, Watson M., 37 



558 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 195 8 



Peterson, Mendel L., vii, 35 
Phillips, Duncan, viii, 198 
Pleissner, Ogdeu, 95 
Pope, Aunemarie H. (Mrs. John A.), 
Chief, Smithsonian Traveling Exhibi- 
tion Service, viii, 96, 108 
Pope, John Alexander, viii, 116, 119, 121, 

122, 123, 124 
Porringer, The New England : An index 
of custom (Anthony N. B. Garvan). 
543 
President of the United States (Dwight 
D. Eisenhower, Presiding Officer ex 
officio), V 
Presiding Officer ex officio (Dwight D. 
Eisenhower, President of the United 
States), V 
Price, Derek J., 30, 44 
Price, Leonard, vii, 91 
Publications, 10, 78, 107, 113, 204, 215 
American Historical Association. 

221 
Astrophysical Observatory, 87, 221 
Bureau of American Ethnology, 78, 

220 
Daughters of the American Revolu- 
tion, 222 
Distribution, 216 
Freer Gallery of Art, 113, 221 
National Collection of Fine Arts. 

107, 221 
National Gallery of Art, 204 
National Museum, 218 
Radiation and Organisms, Division 

of, 93 
Report, 215 

River Basin Surveys, 51 
Smithsonian, 210 



Q 



Quigley, Carroll, ix 



Radiation and Organisms, Division of, 

vii, 90 
Ray, David, 211 

Reed, Theodore H., Director, National 
Zoological Park, viii, 11, 169, 170, 179 
Reeside, J. B., Jr., ix 
Regents, Board of, v, 5, 223 
Annual Meeting, 5 
Executive Committee, v, 232 
Members, v, 232 
Report, 223 
Members, v, 5 
Rehder, Harald A., vi, 15 
Research associates, collaborators, and 

fellows, ix 
Revelle, Roger (Sun, sea, and air), 251 
Rhoades, Katherine N., x 
Riesenberg, S. H., vi, 23 
Riggs, F. Behn, Jr., vii ,85 
Rinehart, John S., vii, 85, 89 



River Basin Surveys, vii, 6, 50, 232 
Accessions, 68 
Appropriation, 6, 50, 232 
Publications, 51 
Report, 50 
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr., Director, 
Bureau of American Ethnology, vii, 
11, 46, 47, 53, 81 
Rocketry (Donald Cox and Michael 

Stoiko), 261 
Rogers, Grace L., vii, 32, S3 
Rogers, William P., Attorney General 
of the United States, member of the 
Institution, v 
Roth, Rodris. C, vii, 35 
Rudd, Velva E., vi 
Russell, Rear Adm. James S., 127 

S 

Saltonstall, Leverett, regent of the 
Institution, v, 5 

Sawyer, Charles, 95 

Schaller, W. T., ix 

Scheans, Daniel J., 66 

Schilling, Gerhard F., 87, 89, 90 

Schmitt, Waldo L., ix, 25 

(Narrative of the 1958 Smithsonian- 
Bredin Caribbean Expedition), 
419 

Sehultz, L. P., vi, 26 

Schumacher, E. G., 78 

Schwartz. Benjamin, ix 

Scott, Jack, 28 

Screwwonn eradication : Concepts and 
research leading to the sterile-male 
method (E. F. Knipling), 409 

Sea otter, The (Karl W. Kenyon), 390 

Searle, Mrs. Harriet Richardson, 45 

Sears, Paul B. (The ecology of man), 
375 

Seaton, Fred A., Secretary of the In- 
terior, member of the Institution, v 

Secretary of the Institution (Leonard 
Carmichael), v, viii, 5, 37, 38, 39, 95. 
127, 142, 196 

Secretary of State, 196 

Secretary of the Treasury, 196 

Setzer, Henry W., vi, 25 

Setzler, Frank M., vi, 22, 34, 41 

Shanidar I skull. The restored (T. D. 
Stewart), 473 

Shepard, Katherine, 203, 204 

Shoemaker, C. R., ix 

Shropshire, Walter, J^-., 92, 93 

Sirlouis, J. Russell, 44 

Smith, Carlyle S., 66 

Smith, G. Hubert, 57, 58, 71 

Smith, H. Alexander, regent of the In- 
stitution, V, 5 

Smith, Lyman B., vi, 15 

Smithsonian Art Commission, 95 

Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedi- 
tion, Narrative of the 1958 (Waldo L. 
Schmitt), 419 



INDEX 



559 



Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Serv- 
ice, viii, 103 

Snodgrass, R. E., ix 

Snyder, T. E., ix 

Solecki, Ralph S., vi, 5, 12, 24, 44 

Soper, C. C, x 

Stapko, C. Gregory, 108 

Stephenson, A. L., vii 

Stephenson, Robert L., 46, 56, 61, 65, 
66, 68, 69 

Stern, Harold P., viii, 116, 119, 121, 123, 
125 

Sterne, Theodore E., vii, 83, 86 

Stevenson, J. A., ix 

Stevpart, T. Dale, vi, 12, 22, 23, 42 

(The restored Shanidar I skiiU), 
473 

Stirling, Matthew W., ix, 11, 46, SO 

Stites, Dr., 206 

Stoiko, Michael (Rocketry) , 261 

Straub, P. A., ix 

Stroman, Herbert R., 143 

Sturtevant, William C, vii, 48, 49 

Suess, Hans E. (The abundance of the 
chemical elements) , 307 

Sugiura, T., Ill 

Sullivan, Francis, 204 

Summerfield, Arthur E., Postmaster 
General of the United States, member 
of the Institution, v 

Sun, sea, and air (Roger Revelle), 251 

Sun's energy. The (Farrington Dan- 
iels), 237 

Swallen, Jason R., vi 

Swanton, John R., 80 

Switzer, George S., vi, 38 

T 
Talbert, D. G., vii 
Tavares, Ronald, 37 
Taylor, Frank A., vi, 11, 29, 42, 43 
Taylor, W. R., vi 
Taylor, W. W., Jr., ix 
Thomas, Charles, 169 
Tobin, W. J., ix 
Tools makyth man (Kenneth Oakley), 

431 
Traveling Exhibition Service. {See 

Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition 

Service) 

U 

Usilton, Mrs. Bertha, 121, 125 

V 

van Biesbroeek, George, 87 
Varsavsky, Carlos, 85 
Vaughn, Peter P., vi, 29, 44 



Visitors, 6, 115, 175, 181, 197 

Canal Zone Biological Area, 181 
Freer Gallery of Art, 115 
National Gallery of Art, 197 
National Zoological Park, 175 
Smithsonian buildings, 6 

Vogel, Robert M., vii, 32, 43 

Vorys, John M., regent of the Institu- 
tion, V, 5 

W 

Walker, Egbert H., vi, 15, 24 

WaUver, E. P., x 

Walker, John, viii, 196 

Waring, A. J., Jr., ix, 80 

Warren, Earl, Chief Justice of the 
United States, Chancellor of the 
Institution, v, viii, 5, 196 

Washburn, Wilcomb E., vii, 83, 43 

Watkins, C. Malcolm, vii, 22, 34 

Watkins, William N., vii, 30 

Wedderburn. A. J., Jr., vii 

Wedel, Waldo R., vi, 39, 62, 63 

Weeks, Sinclair, Secretary of Com- 
merce, member of the Institution, v 

Wegeuroth, Stow, 95 

Vv''eiss, Helena M., vi 

Wenley, Archibald G., Director, Freer 
Gallery of Art, viii, 5, 95, 118, 121, 
122, 123, 125 

West, Elisabeth, 121, 123 

West, Mrs. Lnor O., 123 

Wetmore, iUexander, ix, 13, 20, 27 

Wheeler, Richard P., 65, 72 

Whipple, Fred L., Director, Astrophysi- 
cal Observatory, vii, 84, 85, 90, 94 

Whitney, Charles A., vii, 83, 86 

Widder, Robert B., 36 

Widener, John C, 36 

Widman, William, 169, 170 

Wilding, A. W., chief, supply division, v 

Williams, Dan G., Jr., 11, 195 

Wilson, Mrs. Mildred S., ix 

Withrow, Mrs. Alice P., vii, 92, 93 

Withrow, Robert B., 92, 93, 94 

Wolff, John B., 91 

Wood, John, 85 

Woodbury, Robert S,, 44 

Wright, James F., 169 



Xanten, William A., Jr., 170 



Young, Mahonri M., 95 
Young, Rodney S., 7 



Z 



Zetek, James, x 



o 



