SKt $ 




*^. 



• ^* 







36th Congress, ) SENATE. \ Mis. Doc. 

1st Session. 



ANNUAL REPORT 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



SHOWING THE 



OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE 
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1859. 



WASHINGTON: 

THOMAS H. FORD, PRINTER, 

1S60. 



LETTER 



SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

COMMUNICATING 

The Animal Beport of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the 
Smithsonian Institution for the year 1859. 



June 11, 1860. — Read and ordered to lie on the table. 
June 14, 1860. — 5,000 copies ordered to be printed, 2,000 of ^vhich for the Institution. 

and 3,000 for the Senate. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, June 9, 1860. 
Sir: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit 
to the House of Representatives of the United States the Annual 
Report of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smith- 
sonian Institution for the year 1859. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretarij Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. John C. Breckinridge, 

President of the Senate of the United States. 



ANNUAL REPORT 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION 
UP TO JANUARY 1, I860, AND THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD UP TO 
APRIL 8, 1860. 



To the Senate and House of Representatives : 

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing 
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents, 
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and 
condition of the Institution, the following documents: 

1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the 
operations of the Institution during the year 1859. 

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement 
of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an 
account of the expenditures for the year 1859. 

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents up to April 8, 1860. 

4. Appendix. 
Respectfully submitted. 

R. B. TANEY, Chancellor. 
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary. 



OFFICERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



JAME8 BUCHANAN, Ex officio Presidiag'Officer of the Institution. 
ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor of the Institution. 

JOSEPH HENBY, Secretary of the Institution. 
SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary. 
W. W. SEATON, Treasurer. 
WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk. 

JAMES A. PEARCE, \ 

A. D. BACHE, > Executive Committee. 

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, ) 



REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



'JOHN C. BRECKINRIDGE, Vice President of the United States. 
ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States. 
JAMES G. BERRET, Mayor of the City of Washington. 
JAMES A. PEARCE, memher of the Senate of the United States. 
JAMES M. MASON, member of the Senate of the United States. 
STEPHEN A. DOUGLAS, memher of the Senate of the United States. 
WILLIAM H. ENGLISH, member of the House of Representatives. 
L. J. GARTRELL, member of the House of Representatives. 
BENJAMIN STANTON, member of the House of Representatives. 
GIDEON HAWLEY, citizen of New York. 

(Vacancy occasioned by the death of Hon. Richard Rush.) 

GEORGE E. BADGER, citizen of North Carolina. 
CORNELIUS C. FELTON, citizen of Massachusetts. 
ALEXANDER D. BACHE, citizen of Washington. 
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, citizen of Washington. 



MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION", 



JAMES BUCHANAN, President of the United States. 

JOHN C. BRECKINRIDGE, Vice President of the United States. 

LEWIS CASS, Secretary of State. 

HOWELL COBB, Secretary of the Treasury. 

JOHN B. FLOYD, Secretary of War. 

ISAAC TOUCEY, Secretary of the Navy. 

JOSEPH HOLT, Postmaster General. 

J. S. BLACK, Attorney General. 

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States. 

P. F. THOMAS, Commissioner of Patents. 

JAMES G. BERRET, Mayor of the City of Washington. 



HONORARY MEMBERS. 



BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, of Connecticut. 

A. B. LONGSTREET, of Mississippi. 

JACOB THOMPSON, Secretary of the Interior. 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND 
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1847.] 



INTRODUCTION. 



General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting a. 

Plan of Organization. 

1. Will of Smithson. The property is bequeathed to the United 
States of America, ' ' to found at Washington, under the name of the 
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffu- 
sion of knowledge among men." 

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government of 
the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the 
testator. 

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently 
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and 
perpetuate his name. 

4. The objects of the Institution are, first, to increase, and second, 
to diffuse knowledge among men. 

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another. 
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition, 
of new truths; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus in- 
creased, among men. 

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of 
knowledge; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention. 

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating 
and promoting the discovery of new truths; and can be most exten- 
sively diffused among men by means of the press. 

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should 
be such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of 
increasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either 
at all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country. 

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted pro- 
visionally, can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, 
or be abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds. 

10. In order to compensate, in some measure, for the loss of time 
occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution, 



S PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

a considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be 
added to the principal. 

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, 
the funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the 
construction of the building; and not only the first cost of the edifice 
should be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in 
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected 
with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently sup- 
ported by the Institution. 

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined 
by the plan of organization, and not the converse. 

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be 
benefited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary ex- 
penditure on local objects would be a perversion of the trust. 

14. Besides the foregoing considerations deduced immediately from 
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of 
the act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a library, 
a museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to 
contain them. 

SECTION I. 

Plan of Organization of the Institution in accordance with the foregoing 
deductions from the icill of Smithson. 

To Increase Knowledge. It is proposed — 

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offer- 
ing suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and 

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular 
researches, under the direction of suitable persons. 

To Diffuse Knowledge. It is proposed — 

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the 
different branches of knowledge; and 

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general 
interest. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. 

I. — By stimulating researches. 

1. Facilities afforded for the production of original memoirs on all 
tranches of knowledge. 

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes, 
in a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to Know- 
ledge. 

3. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for 
publication which does not furnish a positive addition to human 
knowledge, resting on original research; and all unverified specula- 
tions to be rejected. 

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for 
examination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in 



PKOGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 9 

the branch to which the memoir pertains; and to be accepted for 
publication only in case the report of this commission is favorable. 

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution, 
and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless 
a favorable decision be made. 

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions 
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the 
colleges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the 
remaining copies may be offered for sale; and the other carefully pre- 
served, to form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand from 
new institutions. 

- 7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs 
to be given to the public through the annual report of the Regents 
to Congress. 

II. — By appropriating a part of the income, annually, to special objects 
of research, under the direction of suitable persons. 

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended 
by counsellors of the Institution. 

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects, so that, in 
course of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share. 

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published 
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Knowledge. 

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made. 
(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the 

problem of American storms. 

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, 
magnetical, and topographical surveys,, to collect materials for the 
formation of a Physical Atlas of the United States. 

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination 
of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of light; 
chemical analyses of soils and plants; collection and publication of 
scientific facts, accumulated in the offices of government. 

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical, 
moral, and political subjects. 

(5.) Historical researches and accurate surveys of places celebrated 
in American history. 

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the 
different races of men in North America; also, explorations and accu- 
rate surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people 
of our country. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE. 

I. — By the publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the new 
discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in all 
brandies of knoivledge not strictly professional. 

1. Th$se reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally inter- 
esting, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of 



10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

the reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as 
the income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of know- 
ledge may indicate. 

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the 
different branches of knowledge. 

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publica- 
tions, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report; 
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title- 
page of the report. 

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons 
interested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it 
without purchasing the whole. 

5. These reports may be presented to Congress for partial distri- 
bution, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific 
institutions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price. 

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in 
the reports: 

I. PHYSICAL CLASS. 

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, 
and meteorology. 

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c. 

3. Agriculture. 

4. Application of science to arts. 

II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS. 

, 5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology, 
antiquities, &c. 

6. Statistics and political economy. 

7. Mental and moral philosophy. 

8. A survey of the political events of the world, penal reform, <fec. 

III. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS. 

9. Modern literature. 

10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts. 

11. Bibliography. 

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals. 

II. — By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest. 

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs 
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the 
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the 
best exposition of a given subject. 

2. The treatises should in all cases be submitted to a commission 
of competent judges previous to their publication. 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 11 

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of 
the present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in 
the table of reports. 

SECTION II. 

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of 
the Board of Regents providing for the two modes of increasing and 
diffusing knowledge. 

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated 
the formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents, 
including these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide 
the income* into two equal parts. 

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge 
by means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme 
before given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of 
a library and a collection of objects of nature and of art. 

3. These two plans are not incompatible one with another. 

4. To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required, 
consisting, 1st, of a complete collection of the transactions and pro- 
ceedings of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more 
important current periodical publications, and other works necessary 
in preparing the periodical reports. 

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of 
objects to illustrate and verify its own publications. 

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of 
experimental science. 

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men- 
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United 
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur- 
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States. 

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials, 
should be collected for rendering the Institution a centre of biblio- 
graphical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any 
work which he may require. 

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history "will increase 
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro- 
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary 
to purchase articles of this kind. 

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art casts 
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture. 

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of ex- 
pense, for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other 
similar societies. 

* The amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the treasury of 

the United States is $515,169 00 

Interest on the same to July 1, 1846, (devoted to the erection of the 

building) .' 242,129 00 

Annual income from the bequest . 30, 910 14 



12 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of 
antiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, <fcc. 

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides 
the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, 
to act as librarian. 

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to 
the Regents. He shall take charge of the building and property, 
keep a record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and 
keeper of tlfe museum, and may, with the consent of the Regents, 
employ assistants. 

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Con- 
gress, will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to 
exhibit new objects of art; distinguished individuals should also be 
invited to give lectures on subjects of general interest. 



This programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has be- 
come the settled policy of the Institution. The only material change 
is that expressed by the following resolutions, adopted January 15, 
1855, viz: 

Resolved, That the 7th resolution, passed by the Board of Regents 
on the 26th of January, 18-17, requiring an equal division of the 
income between the active operations and the museum and library, 
when the buildings are completed, be and it is hereby repealed. 

Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor- 
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the 
institution in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Regents, 
be necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic import- 
ance, and a compliance in good faith with the law. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY FOR 1859, 



To the Board of Regents: 

Gentlemen: I have the honor again to present to you the history 
of the transactions of the Smithsonian Institution for another year, 
and I am happy to be able, at the beginning of my report, to state 
that nothing has occurred since your last session to interfere with the 
successful prosecution of the several objects embraced in the plan of 
organization. 

The funds of the establishment are still in a good condition: the 
original bequest of Smithson remains in the treasury of the United 
States; the extra fund which was saved from the annual income, is 
still invested in State stocks, which have since the last meeting of the 
Board considerably increased in marketable value, and could now be 
sold for more than was paid for them. The accumulation of half a 
year's income in the treasury at the beginning of last year has enabled 
us to pay in cash for all the materials purchased and labor performed 
on account of the Institution, and has thus not only been the means of 
a saving by reduction in the cost of the operations, but also of pre- 
venting the embarrassment and anxiety which has sometimes been felt 
on account of outstanding debts, besides enabling us more readily to 
adapt the expenditures to the several items of appropriation. 

The Institution, during the past year, by its publications, exchanges, 
researches, &c, has sustained the reputation it had previously ac- 
quired, and has continued gradually to extend the sphere of its 
influence and usefulness. By its persevering efforts to carry out the 
will of the founder, it has succeeded in rendering familiar to the public 
mind in the United States the three fundamental distinctions in regard 
to knowledge, which must have an important bearing on the future 
advance of science in this country: namely, the increase of knowledge, 
the diffusion of knowledge, and the practical application of knowledge 
to useful purposes in the arts. 

It is of the highest importance to the well-being of our race that each 
of these distinctions should be recognized, and that each of the pro- 
cesses to which they relate should receive encouragement and support. 



14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

In our country, however, they have not all met with an equal share 
of attention, and at the beginning of this Institution the confusion 
of ideas on this subject was so great that in the interpretation of the 
will, even by some of our prominent and enlightened men, the diffu- 
sion of knowledge was identified with its increase; and it was con- 
tended that Smithson had used the terms as synonymous, and desired 
by the one merely to enforce the other. But that this was not the 
case may be gathered from the meaning attached to these terms by 
the class of men to which he belonged. : ' While we may truly exult, ' ' 
says one of his eminent contemporaries,* "in the awakening of the 
national intellect, Ave must remember that diffusion and advancement 
are two very different processes, and that each may exist independent 
of the other. It is very essential, therefore, when we speak of the 
diffusion or extension of science, that we do not confound these stages 
of development with discovery or advancement, since the latter may be 
as different from the former as depth is from shallowness." 

That the diffusion of knowledge has been an object of solicitude to 
the enlightened legislatures of almost every State in the Union is 
evinced by the provision which has been made for libraries, schools, 
academies, and colleges. The practical application of science to the 
useful arts has received direct encouragement from the general gov- 
ernment by the enactment of patent laws and the establishment of the 
Patent Office. The fact, however, does not appear to have been so 
constantly before the public mind that the advance of science or the 
discovery of new truths, irrespective of their immediate application, 
is also a matter of great importance, and eminently worthy of patron- 
age and support. The progress of society and the increase of the 
comfort and happiness of the human family depend as a basis on the 
degree of our knowledge of the laws by which Divine Wisdom con- 
ducts the affairs of the universe. He has created us with rational souls, 
and endowed us with faculties to comprehend in some measure the 
modes in which the operations of nature are effected; and just in 
proportion to the advance we make by patient and persevering study, 
in the knowledge of those modes or laws, are we enabled to apply 
the forces of nature to our own use, and to avert the dangers to which 
we are exposed from our ignorance of their varied influences. 

c Mr. Swainson. Cabinet Cyclopedia, 1834. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

Nearly all the great inventions which distinguish the present cen- 
tuiy are the results, immediately or remotely, of the application of 
scientific principles to practical purposes, and in most cases these 
applications have been suggested by the student of nature, whose 
primary object was the discovery of abstract truth. The statement 
cannot be too often repeated that each branch of knowledge is con- 
nected with every other, and that no light can be gained in regard to 
one which is not reflected upon all. Thus researches which at first 
sight appear the farthest removed from useful application, are in time 
found to have an important bearing on the advance of art, and conse- 
quently on the progress of society. To illustrate this position, I shall 
take the liberty of trespassing on your time with a few instances 
gleaned from the history of inventions. 

Astronomy was not studied by Kepler, Galileo, or Newton for the 
practical applications which might result from it, but to enlarge the 
bounds of knowledge, to furnish new objects of thought and contem- 
plation in regard to the universe of which we form a part; yet how 
remarkable the influence which this science, apparently so far removed 
from the sphere of our material interests, has exerted on the desti- 
nies of the world ! Without its guidance what would navigation have 
remained but a timid exploration of coasts and inlets, leaving the 
fairest portions of the earth to be the heritage of rude and idolatrous 
tribes ? The. steam-engine, in its improved form, is due to the labo- 
rious scientific researches of Black, Watt, and Robinson, and the new 
theory of heat, which is now occupying so much of the attention of 
the abstract physicist, has lately served to modify our views of this 
agent, and to develop new and important facts in regard to it which 
will tend to economize its power, and increase the means of rendering 
it more effectually the obedient slave of intelligent man. 

In the year 1739, the Rev. Dr. Clayton communicated to the Royal 
Society his discovery of what he called the "spirit of coal," which 
he confined in a bladder, and showed its burning powers as it 
issued from a puncture in the membrane. Sixty years after this Mr. 
Murdoch, of Manchester, applied this discovery to the purpose of 
illumination; and what was at first a mere object of scientific research 
has now become, from its almost universal employment, a necessity 
of civilized life. 

Early in the present century Davy published an account of a dis- 
cover} 7 he had made of the effect produced on the nervous system by 



16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the respiration of nitrous oxide, a substance due to chemical research. 
It was ascertained that the inhalation of the vapor of ether, another 
chemical product, produced a similar effect, and these facts, many 
years afterwards, were applied by Jackson and Morton, in our own 
country, for the purpose of producing insensibility to pain, and thus 
to relieve an incalculable amount of human misery, and to ameliorate 
in a measure the original curse to which our race has been subjected. 

Dr. Priestley, in the course of a laborious series of investigations 
relative to the different kinds of air, subjected, on the 1st of August, 
1774, to the heat of a burning lens (which is now, through the liber- 
ality of one of his grandsons, the property of this institution) a 
quantity of calcined mercury, and evolved from it a gas since known 
by the name of oxygen, a discovery which led to a knowledge of the 
composition of the atmosphere, and finally to the improvement of 
almost the entire circle of the chemical arts, 

About the middle of the last century Franklin devoted his sagacious 
mind to what was deemed by some of his friends a trifling pursuit — 
the study of the phenomena produced by the friction of different 
substances when rubbed together. But from this investigation he 
deduced his admirable theory of electrical induction, and the fact 
of the action of points at a distance, on which was founded the pro- 
tection of buildings from lightning, and which, with the additional 
discoveries of Volta, Oersted, and others, has given to the world the 
electrical telegraph. 

These are instances of investigations commenced without any idea 
of immediate practical utility. They exemplify discoveries made 
by men who studied science for its own sake, and received no other 
reward than the consciousness of enlarging the bounds of human 
thought, while it was left to others to gather a rich pecuniary har- 
vest from what they had so effectually sown. 

"It is the destiny of the sciences," says Fontanelle, "which must 
necessarily be in the hands of a few, that the utility of their progress 
should be invisible to the greater part of mankind, especially if those 
sciences are associated with unobtrusive pursuits. Let a greater 
facility in using our navigable waters and opening new lines of com- 
munication but once exist, simply because at present we know vastly 
better how to level the ground and construct locks and flood-gates — 
what does it amount to ? The workmen have had their labors lightened, 
but they themselves have not the least idea of the skill of the 



REPORT OF TFIE SECRETARY. 17 

geometer who directed them; they have been put in motion nearly 
as the body is by a soul of which it knows nothing; the rest of the 
world has even less perception of the genius which presided over the 
enterprise, and enjoys the success it has attained only with a species 
of ingratitude." 

But it is not alone the material advantages which the world enjoys 
from the study of abstract science on which its claims are founded. 
Were all further applications of its principles to practical purposes 
to cease, it would still be entitled to commendation and support 
on account of its more important effects upon the general mind. It 
offers unbounded fields of pleasurable, healthful, and ennobling ex- 
ercise to the restless intellect of man, expanding his powers and 
enlarging his conceptions of the wisdom, the energy, and the benefi- 
cence of the Great Ruler of the universe. 

From these considerations, then, and others of a like kind, I am fully 
justified in the assertion that this Institution has done good service 
in placing prominently before the country the importance of original 
research, and that its directors are entitled to commendation for 
having so uniformly and persistently kept in view the fact that it 
was not intended for educational or immediately practical purposes, 
but for the encouragement of the study of theoretical principles and 
the advancement of abstract knowledge. 

Smithson declares his bequest to be for the increase of knowledge 
and the diffusion of this among men, being well aware that a single new 
truth added to the general stock must affect man for good in all times 
and all places. We doubt not that when the importance of the 
abstract speculations of science is more generally and more justly 
appreciated, individuals who are favored by Providence with those 
peculiarities of mind which fit them for the advancement of science 
will be set apart as the priests or interpreters of nature, and be 
furnished liberally with the means necessary to benefit their fellow men 
by the discovery of new principles. The grand philosophical vision of 
the father of modern science, which has waited so long for its ful- 
filment, will then be realized, "by the union and co-operation of all 
in building up and perfecting" that House of Solomon, (as Bacon 
quaintly termed it,) "the end of which is the knowledge of causes 
and of the secret motions of things, and the enlarging of the bounds 
of human empire to the effecting of all things possible." 
2 



18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Publications. — The publications of the Institution are now divided 
Into three classes: the "Contributions to Knowledge," in quarto- 
form; the '-Annual Reports* 7 to Congress, and the "Miscellaneous 
Collections,'' in octavo. 

The eleventn volume of Smithsonian Contributions is nearly ready 
for distribution, and will contain a number of original memoirs, which 
are presented to the world as additions to knowledge of sufficient 
importance to warrant their publication by the funds of the Institu- 
tion. The fact, however, should be recollected that the Institution 
•does not merely publish these volumes, but, as a general rule, extends 
its assistance to the original researches of which the papers published 
contain the results, sometimes by furnishing the subjects or materials- 
of observation, and sometimes by defraying the whole or a part of 
the expenses incident to such researches. 

The first memoir contained in this volume is on North American 
Oology, by Dr. Thomas M. Brewer, of Boston, an account of which 
was given in a previous report. The text of this work was printed 
in 1857, but the preparation of the plates to accompany it not being- 
completed, it could not be included in any volume previous to the 
eleventh. Copies, however, of the paper had been presented sepa- 
rately to some of the principal naturalists of this country and Europe, 
and the work has been received with approbation as an important 
addition to the branch of natural history on which it treats. 

The second paper is on the total eclipse of the sun, September 1, 
1858, as observed near Olmos, Peru, by Lieutenant Gilliss, United 
States navy, illustrated by a plate of the appearance of the sun 
during the total obscuration. A full account of this paper is given 
in the last report of the Institution. 

The third memoir in the eleventh volume has the following title: 
*' Discussion of the Magnetic and Meteorological Observations made 
at the Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, from 1840 to 1845, 
by A. D. Bache, LL.D." Part 1. Investigation of the eleven- 
year period in the amplitude of the solar-diurnal variation, and of 
the disturbances of the magnetic declination. 

About twenty years ago the British Association organized a series 
of cotemporaneous magnetic and meteorological observations at dif- 
ferent colonial positions in the British empire, with which most of 
the civilized governments of the world co-operated. No assistance, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

however, was rendered to the enterprise in this country, except in 
the instance here referred to, in which the observations were con- 
ducted by Dr. Bache, at Philadelphia, by means of funds supplied 
by the members of the American Philosophical Society and the Topo- 
graphical Bureau of the United States, and with instruments furnished 
by Girard College. This series of observations commenced in May, 
1840, and, with short interruptions, terminated in June, 1815, thus 
furnishing a record extending over five years, for three or four 
months of which the observations were made bi-hourly, and for the 
remainder of the time hourly. A general reduction of these observa- 
tions was published in 1817, by order of Congress, in three octavo 
volumes, with an atlas of diagrams. The records, however, contained 
facts of great interest, which, owing to the laborious duties of Pro- 
fessor Bache, could not then be deduced from them, and he has since 
renewed the investigation, with the aid of Mr. Schott, and the present 
paper gives an account of the first results which have thus been 
obtained. 

To present the bearing of the interesting researches exhibited in 
this paper on the progress of science, it may be proper to state that 
the magnetic force of the earth is almost constantly disturbed, both 
in direction and intensity. 

1. It is subject to a change which appears to complete its cycle in 
a large number of years, for the determination of which it is necessary 
to know the magnetic state of various places on the globe simul- 
taneously at a given epoch, and again after the lapse of several years. 
2. It is subjected to a change which is completed in the course of a 
year; and 3d, another which runs through its course in a single day. 

Beside these regular disturbances, there is another series of varia- 
tions, large in magnitude, denominated magnetic storms, which have 
been, until lately, considered as fitful, appearing to observe no law, 
but which were manifest over a considerable part of the earth's 
surface. These, however apparently irregular as to the individual 
instances, are in all probability, as has been shown by General Sabine, 
subject to a law of more frequency of occurrence in certain years. 

The object of Professor Bache' s paper is to investigate from the 
data furnished by the Girard observations, the law of recurrence of 
the latter disturbances. Since this has not as yet been accurately 
ascertained, and every independent series of observations when pro- 
perly discussed is of great value in giving more precision to our 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

knowledge of one of the most remarkable classes of phenomena pre- 
sented in the whole course of physical science, the results of this 
discussion cannot but be received with much interest by the scientific 
world. 

As the magnetic needle, for example, may be considered as sub- 
jected at the same time to different forces, each tending to produce 
one of the variations we have mentioned, it becomes a subject of nice 
inquiry to eliminate the several effects, and to obtain the magnitude 
and period of each separately. In the case under consideration it 
was necessary to separate more especially the large apparently fitful 
variations from the regular daily ones. To effect this, the process 
proposed by Professor Peirce, of Cambridge, and founded on the 
-doctrine of probabilities, was employed as a criterion in judging as 
to the magnitude of a disturbance which should be considered as be- 
longing to the class under consideration, and it was finally concluded 
that all disturbances which exceeded 3'. 64 of an arc were abnormal, 
and accordingly all observations differing by that amount or more from 
their mean monthly values were marked. Next, a new hourly mean 
was taken, omitting the values so marked, and each observation again 
examined in reference to deviations from this new mean, and so on — 
the last mean thus obtained for each hour during each month gave 
what was considered the normal daily curve. 

From this it appears that the north end of the needle reaches its 
■greatest eastern position between 7 and 8 o'clock in the forenoon, and 
its greatest western deviation about 1 o'clock in the afternoon. 

The author next proceeds to discuss the large disturbances, and 
from these lie deduces the fact that a principal maximum of disturb- 
ances occurs in October, a smaller one in April, and the two minima, 
.nearly equal to each other, occur in the months of February and 
•June. 

The diurnal variation arising from the large disturbances presents 
one maximum and one minimum; its most prominent feature is the 
easterly deflection, which occurs about a quarter after 8 o'clock 
p. in., at which hour the maximum deflection amounts to 32" of an 
arc; the great westerly deflection takes place at a quarter past 6 
a. m., and ©n an average amounts to 14". 

These variations are compared with deductions made from similar 
observations at Toronto, and are found to be the same in kind, but 
less in magnitude. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

The whole discussion clearly indicates a law of recurrence in the 
frequency of the large disturbances, although the period over which 
the observations extend was not sufficient to determine the interval. 
The observations, however, indicate with great precision the time of 
the minimum, the rate of diminution as the disturbances diminish in 
approaching this period, and their increase as they recede from it. 
The minimum thus found, of frequency of large disturbances, occurred 
in August, 1843. 

The establishment of the elements of a law of periodicity in rela- 
tion to changes of the magnetic force which, from the time they were 
first noticed until within a few years past, were regarded as entirely 
irregular, is in its relation to terrestrial magnetism a fact of import- 
ance; but the value of this is highly increased when it is found that 
these disturbances are connected with changes in matter foreign to 
cur earth. To realize this, we must refer to a series of persevering 
observations made day by day for thirty years on the spots of the 
sun, by an astronomer named Schwabe, in an obscure town of Ger- 
many. This devotion to an apparently unfertile field of inquiry was 
finally rewarded by the discovery that the spots on the sun's disc are 
subject to a regular law of recurrence, and that they pass through the 
phases of periods of greatest and least frequency in about eleven years; 
but strange to say, it was afterwards announced by General Sabine that 
the period of recurrence of large magnetic disturbances coincides 
both in duration and its epoch of maximum with the period discovered 
by Schwabe in reference to the solar spots; that is, that at the period 
of greatest disturbances there occurs the maximum number of spots,, 
and vice versa. The investigations of Professor Bache serve to 
establish this conclusion, and to furnish additional elements for a more 
accurate comparison. From these results it is clear that the sun 
exerts an influence on the magnetism of the earth which depends on 
the existing state of its own luminous atmosphere, affording another 
example to be added to other illustrations of the same truth, that 
scientific researches, if skilfully and perseveringly continued, will 
always lead to valuable results, and often to those which could not 
have been anticipated by any previous conceptions. 

The volumes of records of the Girard observations, which present 
on casual examination immense series of tabulated figures in which 
no law or regularity is observable, when scientifically studied and 
properly interpreted, are thus found to yield truths of the highest 



22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

interest. Professor Baclie proposes to continue his inquiries and ex- 
tend his investigation to the influence of the moon and other agents 
on the magnetism of the earth. He has already finished a second 
paper on these discussions, and has a third in a state of considerable 
advancement. These Mill probably form a part of the twelfth volume 
of the Contributions. 

The eleventh volume also contains a second series of the discussions 
of the physical observations made by Dr. Kane during his last voyage 
to the Arctic regions, the first part of which, or that relating to ter- 
restrial magnetism, was published in the tenth volume of Contributions. 
This second part relates to meteorology, and was prepared for publi- 
cation in the intervals of his official duties by Chas. A. Schott, esq., 
assistant in the United States Coast Survey, under the direction of 
Prof. Bache, and at the expense of the Smithsonian funds. This 
memoir not only forms an interesting and important addition to 
meteorology, which will tend to connect the name of our lamented 
countryman with this branch of science, but also furnishes a model 
for imitation, of the method in which observations of this character 
ought to be reduced and discussed in order that they may best sub- 
serve the advancement of science. 

The following account of some of the points of the memoir and of 
the facts developed will probably be generally interesting and serve 
to illustrate its value: 

The observations were made at Van Rensselaer harbor, on the 
western coast, of Greenland, and extend over a period of two winters 
and a considerable part of two summers, during which the vessel was 
constantly frozen in the ice. 

They show in a very striking manner the constant and laborious 
occupation of the little party in their lone abode, records having 
been made at every hour of the day and night during the whole 
period. It would be out of place in this report to. give a full account 
of all the subjects discussed in this memoir, and I shall therefore 
only glance at a few of the most prominent points, referring to the 
paper itself for a full exposition of its more valuable contents. It 
consists of three parts — the first is on temperature, the second on 
winds, the third on atmospheric pressure. The first part, viz. that 
on temperature, gives the observations for every hour, from which 
are deduced the diurnal and annual variations of the thermometer, 
the influence of the different winds on the temperature, and an 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



»'!)'» 



■analysis of the recurrence of cold periods during the winter: tables 
deduced from the daily observations for ascertaining the corrections 
required to be applied to observations made only once or twice a 
day in order to obtain the mean temperature of places within the 
arctic circle; and, finally, observations to determine the diminution 
of temperature with an increase of elevation. 

Beside the corrected records of the motion of the air, the second 
part of the memoir contains the resultant direction, the average 
force, the mean velocity, the quantity, the frequency, and the dura- 
tion of the winds. The third part contains not only the record of 
the pressure, but also a comparison of the mercurial and aneroid 
barometers, the diurnal and annual variation, the regular fluctuations 
of the monthly and annual extremes of pressure. 

The expedition was supplied with thirty-six mercurial thermome- 
ters, four maximum and minimum thermometers, twenty-four spirit- 
thermometers of different sizes, including two standards and a regis- 
ter thermometer of thirty-six inches in length. A laborious series of 
the different readings of these instruments, particularly at low tem- 
peratures, was made, from which have been deduced corrections to 
be applied to the records prepared for publication. The differences 
exhibited by the spirit thermometers at low temperatures was referred 
to the unequal contraction of colored alcohol not chemically pure. 
This liquid, when exposed to a great degree of cold, appeared to 
change its condition, the coloring matter being deposited on the sides 
of the tube. The lowest temperature observed during the first 
winter, 1853-54, was, February 6, — 66°. 4; and during the second 
winter, 1854—' 55, occurred, January 8, — 65 .5. 

The highest temperature observed was July 23, 1854, +51°, giving 
an absolute difference of 117°. 4. The diurnal maximum or highest 
temperature of the day occurred in October and November, about 
one hour before noon, and in April and May, three hours after noon. 

In the months of October, November, and December there are two 
points of low temperature each day — one at 6 a. m., and the other at 
about 9 p. m. ; during the remaining months of the year there is one 
minimum during the twenty-four hours, which occurs at 1 a. m. 

It Avas a fortunate circumstance that the observations extended 
over two winters, and thus gave a more exact mean for that season. 
The warmest month is July, the coldest March; the temperature of 
December, however, does not differ much from the latter. The 



24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

highest mean monthly temperature seems to occur almost exactly in 
the middle of July, and the lowest point would probably have been 
found in February if the series had been extended over several 
winters. The mean temperature of winter, namely, of December, 
January, and February, was — 28°. 59; of spring, — 10°. 59; sum- 
mer, +33°. 38; autumn, — 4°. 03. The mean temperature for the 
whole year was — 2°.4G. The temperature was always lowest 
during calms, and rose with the springing up of a wind from any 
quarter. 

There is also a great regularity in the elevation of temperature 
during the hours of the fall of snow; on an average the sensible heat 
was increased during this period 7°. 7. In seventeen months it 
snowed during six hundred and eighty hours, and rained during sixty 
hours. 

A series of recurring periods of cold was observed, which Dr. Kane 
seemed inclined to consider as intimately connected with the phases 
of the moon, and on this point a series of elaborate investigations 
was made by Mr. Schott, from which it was found that in a period 
of six days on an average the cycle was completed, and that the 
lowest temperatures are reached about the time of full moon. Setting 
aside some small deviations in the regularity of the curves of tem- 
perature, there is not a single exception to the correspondence of the 
greatest cold near the epoch of full moon, and of least cold near the 
time of the new moon. It^should be observed, however, that since, 
from the observations made at this Institution, the waves, as it were, 
of cold air which reduce the temperature of the United States, 
frequently begin several days earlier at the extreme west, the same 
coincidence as to identity of occurrence of the maximum cold with 
any particular phase of the moon cannot be true of all points on the- 
surface of the earth, although the period of recurrence may, as in the 
case of the tides at different places, be governed by that luminary. 

A series of comparative observations at the level of the sea and at 
the top of the mast of the brig, at eighty feet elevation, was taken 
during the months of August, September, and October, from which 
is deduced a diminution of temperature of 1° for two hundred and , 
ten feet of elevation. • 

The direction of the wind was noted in the original records with 
reference to the magnetic points of the compass, and the mean results^ 



REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

determined in regard to the true north. It appears from all the 
observations that the true direction of the wind is from the eastward, 
varying in the several months northward and southward. There is 
but one exception, namely, in June; the wind then veers round to 
the westward of south. The- resulting direction for the whole year 
is almost exactly east; in winter it is E.N.E. and in summer S.E. by S. 
The greatest quantity of air which moves over the place during 
the year comes from a direction north of east. 

The predominance of calms is a circumstance quite characteristic 
of this region. The number of hours of winds recorded was 3,697, 
and those of still weather 5,063. 

The snow or rain wind is between N.N.E. and E.S.E., or from the 
direction of the Spitzbergen sea,' and also from the opposite direction 
of S.S. W., or that of the upper Baffin's bay. From the northwestern 
quarter there was hardly any precipitation. 

During the whole period there were recorded thirteen gales, with 
a duration of not less than two hours. They do not appear to be 
confined to any particular season of the year, and on the average 
continue about seven hours. 

These records are of great interest in enabling us to ascertain 
whether the great storms which pass over the United States can be 
traced into the Arctic regions. 

For observations on atmospheric pressure the expedition was pro- 
vided with a mercurial barometer and two aneroids, and from a series 
of reductions of the observations of these instruments it is concluded 
that the indications of the aneroid may generally be relied on to 
within nearly one hundredth of an inch. 

Owing to the small amplitude in the oscillations of the barometer, 
and the magnitude of occasional disturbances, the law of diurnal 
variation is apparently subject to considerable fluctuations. The 
principal maximum is reached about one o'clock p. m. ; the evening 
maximum at about ten p. m., in conformity with the general law 
deduced from observations in the northern hemisphere. The one 
p. m. minimum seems to occur about three hours earlier than is 
indicated at more southern stations. 

The average maximum height of the barometer is above the mean 
in the months of January, February, March, April, and May, and 
descends below the mean in the remaining summer and autumn months. 
The general law observed in other parts of the world, that the height 



26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

of the barometer is less in summer than in winter, is prominently 
exhibited. 

The mean height of the barometer for the whole time was 29.7T5 
inches, which is less than that for places under the tropics; and it 
should be stated that Van Rensselaer harbor is fourteen degrees 
farther north than the latitude 04° in which the height of the 
barometer is a minimum. 

The fluctuations in the height of the barometer were greater in 
winter than in summer. The greatest pressure, 30.97 inches, oc- 
curred in the morning of January 22, 1855; the lowest, 28.84 inches, 
occurred near noon of February 19, 1854. Little change was ob- 
served in the barometer during the fall of snow. 

The barometer fell during the blowing of all the winds except those 
from about north by east and southeast. 

The observations indicate that the hottest winds are from the north- 
east, one-half east, and the maximum atmospheric pressure nearly 
east. 

This memoir was referred for critical examination to Professor 
Peirce, of Cambridge, and Professor Chauvenet, of St. Louis. 

The next memoir is by Dr. John Le Conte, of Philadelphia, and is 
intended to give a catalogue of the Coleoptera or beetles known to 
inhabit the middle and eastern portions of the great central region of 
temperate North America. The province here treated of includes 
Kansas, a portion of Nebraska, and the eastern part of NeAv Mexico. 
Its eastern limit is well defined, but its other boundaries are indefinite, 
since it there fades imperceptibly into other provinces of the same great 
zoological district. The descriptions of new species are principally 
from specimens furnished through the Smithsonian Institution from 
collections made by different explorers connected with the surveys of 
the officers of the United States army. 

Before proceeding to describe the special materials used in the 
preparation of the memoir, the author gives a short sketch of the 
results already obtained in regard to the geographical distribution of 
coleopterous insects in this country, illustrated by a map on which 
the several regions are distinguished by different colors. From this 
map it appears that the whole area of the United States is divided by 
nearly meridianal lines into three or perhaps four zoological districts, 
distinguished each by numerous peculiar genera and species, which, 
with few exceptions, do not extend into the contiguous districts. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

These districts are divided into a number of provinces of unequal size, 
which are limited by differences in climate, and arc therefore some- 
times distinctly and sometimes vaguely defined. 

The mode of distribution of species in the Atlantic and Pacific 
districts is entirely different. In the Atlantic districts a large number 
of species are distributed over a great extent of country; many species 
are of rare occurrence, and in passing over a distance of several hun- 
dred miles but small variation will be found to exist. In the Pacific- 
district a small number of species are confined to a limited region of 
country. Most species occur in considerable number, and in travel- 
ling even one hundred miles it is found that the most abundant speci - 
arc replaced by others, but of a similar character. 

The object of the memoir is to give an account of what is known 
of this class of insects in Kansas, upper Texas, and Arizona, and to 
furnish means for facilitating the further exploration of the whole 
country in regard to the same animals. 

This will undoubtedly be considered a valuable addition to a branch 
of zoology which, however insignificant it may appear to the popular 
mind, is not only connected with questions of interest in relation to 
abstract science, but also with the economical resources of the 
country. 

The memoir, beside the colored map to which we have alluded, is 
illustrated by two engraved plates. 

The next paper consists of the result of magnetical and hypsomct- 
rical observations in Mexico, to which is appended notes on the 
volcano of Popocatepetl and its vicinity. 

In 1S56 Baron Yon Muller undertook an exploration of Mexico in 
reference to its natural history, and proposed to the Smithsonian 
Institution to make in its behalf a magnetic survey of the same country. 
This offer having been accepted, an appropriation was made from the 
Smithsonian fund to pay a portion of the salary of Mr. Sonntag, the 
assistant of Baron Von Muller; and the magnetic instruments which 
had been previously lent to Dr. Kane, and used by Mr. Sonntag 
himself, as one of the assistants of that lamented explorer in his last 
Arctic exploration, were furnished to the expedition for the contem- 
plated survey. Several records of the unreduced observations made 
at a number of places in Mexico, were at different times transmitted to 
the Institution previous to the return of Baron Yon Muller to Germany, 
after which nothing more was obtained; and after considerable delay 



28 ORT THE SECRETARY. 

we were informed by him that he had been robbed in Mexico,- and that 
the instruments had been captured and destroyed. Xot having re- 
ceived a final report from Baron Yon Miiller, to render the observa- 
tions which had been obtained from Mexico available to science, they 
were placed in the hands of Mr. Sonntag on his return to Washington, 
and have been reduced by him at the expense of the Institution. He 
has also appended a series of notes relative to the volcano of Popo- 
catepetl and its vicinity, and also a series of barometrical and trigo- 
nometrical measurements of heights of various places in the vicinity 
of the city of Mexico. The observations included those for the 
declination or variation, the inclination or dip, and, lastly, those for 
the relative intensity of the magnetic force. A series of observations 
lor each of these elements was made at the following places, namely, 
Vera Cruz, Potrero, Cocolapam. San Andres, Mirador, city of Mexico, 
Chalco, and Tlamacas. The average variation of the needle from the 
whole series of observations was about Sh° east; at the city of Mexico 
it was 8° 4G' east. The average dip for the "whole region was about 
42£°, and for the city of Mexico 41° 26'. 

The interesting fact is noted in the appendix that the southwestern 
wall of all the recent Mexican craters observed by the author is higher 
than the northeastern wall — a phenomenon probably due to the action 
of the trade-winds constantly impelling the ashes and cinders from 
the northeast to the southwest. The elevation of eleven different 
places was determined, including the city of Mexico and the highest 
peak of Popocatepetl. The former was 7,472.8 feet, and the latter 
17. 817. G feet. 

We regret very much the loss of the magnetic instruments, not 
only on account of the use which might be made of them in deter- 
mining the magnetic elements of different portions of the American 
continent, but also on account of the interest wdiich attaches to them 
from having been employed in the observations by Dr. Kane. 
They have, however, done good service; and although the result of 
the co-operation of Baron Yon Mtiller has not been as fortunate as we 
could have wished, still it has added something of considerable value 
to our knowledge of the terrestrial magnetism of this continent. 

Another memoir, Avhich will form a part of the 11th volume of 
"Contributions," is on the American storm of December 20, 1836, 
and the European storm of December 25 of the same year, by Pro- 
fessor Elias Loomis, of the University of New York. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29 

About twenty years ago this industrious meteorologist presented 
to the American Philosophical Society an investigation of the first of 
the above-mentioned storms, which extended from the Gulf of Mexico 
to an unknown distance to the north. The area covered by the ob- 
servations, and to which consequently the investigation was confined, 
included only the southern part of the storm, and therefore the au- 
thor regarded the results he had obtained, though of sufficient interest 
to warrant publication, as not entirely satisfactory. Having since 
obtained additional information, and adopted with success in the 
study of similar storms a method of investigation which consists in 
representing the disturbances of the atmosphere by lines and colors 
on charts, he concluded to review his former labors, and to publish 
all his results illustrated by a series of colored maps, which lie is now 
enabled to do through the provision made for this purpose by the 
Smithsonian Institution. 

The author first presents a summary of the observations of the 
barometer at each of the American stations from which information 
in regard to the indications of this instrument was derived. The 
average height of the barometer at each of the stations is given, and 
the fluctuations from this height during the storm, as well as imme- 
diately before and after it. With these data a series of lines is drawn 
on five charts, exhibiting the progress of the storm for as many suc- 
cessive periods, namely, for December 19, at S o'clock p. m.; Decern: 
ber 20, at 8 a. m. and 8 p. m.: December 21, at S a. m. and 8 p. m. 
On each chart is drawn a line indicating the places of mean pressure 
of the atmosphere, or those where the pressure is in a normal con- 
dition, also a line indicating two-tenths of an inch of mercury above 
the mean, &c. 

In examining these lines on each map, it is apparent that there 
exists a large area over which the barometer was below its mean 
height, which on the evening of the 20th of December extended 980 
miles from west to east. On the morning of December 21 it extended 
770 miles, and on the evening of the 21st it had become reduced to 
COO miles in the same direction. It is evident, also, that toward the 
north the limit of low barometer extended much beyond the map, 
and, since the lowest point was found at Quebec, it is inferred that it 
extended as far north as it did south of this point, and would, there- 
fore, be on the 21st of December at least 3,000 miles in length from 
north to south. The area, therefore, of least pressure was in the 



Oi) REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

form of an oval figure, having a length of three times its breadth, 
and, from the inspection of the several maps', it will appear that it 
travelled constantly eastward. 

A similar table of observations is given in reference to the ther- 
mometer as observed at fifty-seven places, and lines corresponding 
to the mean temperature to ten degrees above and ten degrees below, 
&c., are drawn on each of the maps. From these it appears that on 
the evening of the 19th the area of greatest temperature extended 

m 800 to 1.100 miles in an east and west direction. The centre 
of this area of high thermometer did not coincide with the centre of 
low barometer, but was uniformly somewhat to the east of it. 

On the same charts the condition of the weather at different inter- 
vals as to clearness, cloudiness, rain, &c., is represented by different 
colors, and from these it will be seen that on the evening of* the 19th 
of December rain or snow was falling over the entire region west of 
the Mississippi as far as the map extends, and that a cloud covered 
the whole of the United States except that part bordering on the 
Atlantic ocean. On the evening of the 20th the rain had reached 
Washington, and on the morning of the 21st the cloud had covered 
the whole of the eastern portion of the country, while the sky had 
cleared off as far as Cincinnati, at the same time that rain was falling 
in the whole of New England except the State of Maine. On the 
evening of the 21st the storm was confined to a small portion of the 
eastern part of the chart, while the sky over nearly the whole United 
States, with a few exceptions of spots of limited extent, was free from 
clouds. 

The direction of the wind is indicated by arrows, and its intensity 
shown by their length; and from these it is seen that during the en- 
tire period within the area of rain and snow the direction of the wind 
in the rear of the storm was from the west, northwest, or north, and 
that in the southwest part of the United States the winds were some- 
what more northerly than in the northwest part of the country. In 
front of the storm the winds generally blew from a southerly point, 
the average of which was 10° east of south, while in the south and 
northern parts of the country in front of the storm the wind was 
easterly. There was thus along a meridian line of at least 1,200 
miles in length a violent wind from a point on an average 30° north 
of west, and on the east side a strong current from a point 10° east 
of south. These two contrary winds blew with great violence for at 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31 

least forty-eight Lours, indicating' an ascending current of air and a 
tendency to rotation contrary to the motion of the hands of a watch. 

The author next proceeds to offer some suggestions as to the origin 
of the storm, which in the main agree with the exposition of the phe- 
nomena as given in the theory of Espy, namely, the upward motion 
of the air at the point of lowest barometer, the evolution of latent 
heat by the condensation of the vapor which it contains, and the 
transfer eastward of the whole disturbance by the flow of the upper 
current in that direction. He attributes the principal cause of the 
cold experienced to the upper current descending to the surface of 
the earth. 

The European storm of the 25th of December of the same vear is 
investigated in the same manner, and the results illustrated by means 
of eight separate maps, one for each day, commencing with Decem- 
ber 21, including the beginning and ending of the disturbance. It 
was at first supposed that this storm was a continuation of that of the 
20th experienced in America; the rate of progress, however, of the 
latter was such that it could not have reached Europe before the 
27th, whereas the storm of the 25th was fully organized on the 23d, 
and, indeed, its first movements can be distinctly traced in Germany 
on the 22d. The European storm evidently originated in Europe, 
and the American storm wasted itself in the Atlantic. It was, 
however, the possible connexion of these two storms that induced 
Professor Loomis to collect particularly, during a visit to Europe in 
185G— '57, records of meteorological observations for this period. The 
whole number of stations from which he obtained data was nearly 
fifty. 

It was mentioned in the last report that the Institution had con- 
cluded to publish in full detail several series of meteorological obser- 
vations made for long periods in different parts of the United States. 

The 12th volume of Contributions will contain the first of these 
series, by Professor A. Caswell, of Brown University. The observa- 
tions commence with December 1, 1831, and end with December 31, 
1859,*" including a period of a little more than twenty-eight years. 

These observations were made three times daily, embracing the 
thermometer, barometer, the direction and force of the wind, the 

s These tables have been extended to June, 18G0. 



32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

degree of cloudiness, the amount of precipitation, and, for a portion 
of the time, the psychrometer. 

In addition to these fixed and regular observations, daily and special 
notice was taken of all phenomena connected with atmospherical 
changes, with storms, the aurora. &c. The barometrical observa- 
tions are reduced to the level of the sea and the temperature of 32° 
Fahrenheit. 

The author has given a series of general summaries deduced from 
the whole period; and when a sufficient number of similar observa- 
tions for long periods are collected and published, they will be sub- 
mitted to the process of exhaustive investigation similar to those to 
which the observations of Dr. Kane have been subjected, in order to 
determine peculiar points of interest relative to the climate of the 
United States. 

We have found that the printing of papers of this character re- 
quires much time and is very expensive, since they are composed 
almost entirely of rule and figure work. We think, however, the 
value which will be attached to them will fully warrant the expendi- 
ture on account of their publication. They will afford the data for 
answering many questions which are propounded to the meteorolo- 
gist, such as the period of recurrence of storms, the connexion of the 
changes of the weather with the phases of the moon, &c. The means of 
ascertaining the state of the atmosphere over a considerable portion of 
the United States oh any day for the last quarter of a century will be 
interesting in many cases, independent of scientific considerations. 

The report of the Regents to Congress for 1858, besides an ex- 
position of the condition and operations of the Institution for that 
year, was, as usual, accompanied by an appendix containing the report 
of lectures, and other matter which has proved highly acceptable to 
a large number of intelligent persons in every part of the country. 
These reports, copies of which are especially solicited by teachers, 
besides furnishing valuable knowledge not otherwise readily attain- 
able, serve to diffuse information as to the operations of the Institu- 
tion which tends to increase the number of its friends and co-opera- 
tors, and to elevate popular conceptions in reference to science, as 
well as to increase the number of its cultivators. 

The number of copies of the report ordered to be printed at the 
last session was less than that of the preceding year, yet the supply 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33 

to the Institution was the same. Indeed it is a gratifying evidence 
of the public estimation in which the Institution is held, that Con- 
gress has been so favorably disposed, even during the depressed con- 
dition of the treasury, towards the distribution of this document. 

It was mentioned in the last Report that the Institution had made 
arrangements for the preparation of elementary treatises on the dif- 
ferent orders of insects found in North America, with a view to 
identify the species and facilitate the study of their relation and 
habits. Considerable progress has been made in this work, and sev- 
eral parts are either in the press or ready to be given to the printer. 
These treatises will afford the means of instructing the farmer in 
regard to the character of the insect enemies with which he has to 
contend, and will enable him by watching their habits, time of ap- 
pearance, and mode of propagation, to add much valuable informa- 
tion to what is already known relative to the method of guarding 
against their ravages. 

But before anything of this kind can be done systematically, we 
must be able to recognize the insects, since the same animais are 
known in different countries by different names. If, therefore, we 
would avail ourselves of the facts which have already been gathered 
by patient study in this branch of natural history, we must be assured 
of the identity of the species; and if we would make the knowledge 
which already exists in this country generally available, the insects 
must be described Avith that scientific precision which will enable 
them to be immediately recognized with certainty in every part of 
the world. 

These treatises or catalogues will be illustrated by wood-cuts, and 
published as a part of the Miscellaneous Collections of the Institu- 
tion. 

The last Report contains a series of instructions for collecting and 
preserving specimens of insects, prepared by the following gentle- 
men, viz: Dr. John L. Le Conte, of Philadelphia; Dr. B. Clemens, 
of Easton, Pa.; Dr. P. Uhler, of Baltimore; and Baron R. Osten 
Sacken, of the Russian Legation. These instructions have not only 
directed attention to the subject, but furnished the means by which 
a large number of specimens have been obtained for scientific inves- 
tigation. 

It will be recollected that it is one of the objects of the Institution 



34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

to induce as many individuals as possible, in various parts of the 
country, to devote their leisure hours to special objects of natural 
history — to point out to them the pleasures derived from studies of 
this kind systematically pursued, and the important results which 
will flow from their labors when combined with those of other per- 
sons in the same line, and also to facilitate by catalogues, descriptions, 
and correspondence, the progress of the student in the elementary 
part of his studies. In connexion with this object, circulars have 
been distributed directing special attention to different points, 
among which Ave may mention one on American grasshoppers, an 
insect to the ravages of which a large portion of the United States 
is frequently subjected, and relative to which every well authenticated 
met is of considerable interest. Another circular has been issued in 
regard to the collection of nests and eggs of birds, to furnish the 
material for a continuation of Dr. Brewer's work on Oology. 

The fact was stated in a previous report that materials had been 
collected for a new edition of a report on the libraries of this country, 
originally prepared by Professor C. C. Jewett. This work was en- 
trusted to Mr. William J. Rhees, chief clerk of this Institution, to 
be done out of the usual hours of his official duties; but the materials 
which were collected contained so much information relative to edu- 
cational and other institutions, which was thought too important to be 
omitted, that the report when completed was found to exceed the 
limits assigned by the Institution; and rather than abridge it by 
leaving out a part of the material which had cost so much labor, 
Mr. Rhees offered to publish it on his own account; and such an 
arrangement being compatible with the general policy of the Institu- 
tion, the proposition was agreed to, and the work has accordingly 
been issued under his own name and responsibility. It forms a 
volume of 700 octavo pages, and contains a large amount of very in- 
teresting and valuable matter which has cost the author a much 
greater amount of labor than can ever be repaid by even an extensive 
sale of the work. 

In this connexion we may mention that a list of the libraries, soci- 
eties, and institutions in North America, has also been prepared by 
Mr. Rhees and printed for the use of the Institution. It forms an 
octavo pamphlet of 81 pages, and is found of much value in facili- 
tating the distribution of our several classes of publications and in 
directing circulars, &c. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35 

Researches. — Mr. L. W. Meech has continued his mathematical re- 
searches in regard to the light and heat of the sun, and, since the 
date of the last Report, has succeeded in integrating some of the an- 
alytical expressions which had previously appeared likely to prove 
exceedingly troublesome, and the analysis is now sufficiently advanced 
for another publication. His next memoir will treat of the relative 
intensity of the sun's rays after passing through the air to the earth's 
surface. It will be recollected that his former memoir presented, in 
tables and curves, the intensity of the sun's rays at the exterior of 
the atmosphere. The primary formula, to be given in this memoir, 
has been demonstrated and verified, and the derived formula} are 
mostly made out for the range and other phases of the intensity of 
the light and heat. These depend on what are called elliptical func- 
tions, and are much more complicated than those of the former paper. 
Before curves can be drawn from them, the numerical values for every 
five degrees of latitude are to be computed and checked, which will 
require the labor of several months. To defray the expense of this r 
another small appropriation will be required. The success of the 
previous labors of Mr. Meech warrants this expenditure, from funds 
intended for the increase of knowledge, since the results which caa 
now be obtained from his formula will, in all probability, be consid- 
ered standard elements in the physical theory of heat. 

Dr. Wolcott Gibbs has continued his chemical researches, and a paper 
in relation to them will probably appear in the next volume of Con- 
tributions. It will present new processes for the separation of all the 
platinum metals in a state of absolute purity. These are very simple, 
and easy of execution, and not only apply to the separation, but to 
the quantitative analysis of mixtures of the different metals of this 
group in almost any proportion. The researches also involve the 
preparation and properties of a new and remarkable series of salts, 
which, it is thought, will remove the difficulties with which the sub- 
ject has hitherto been surrounded. 

It was stated in the last Report that one of the most important op- 
erations in which the Institution had been engaged during the previ- 
ous year was the construction of a map to present at one view the 
arable, forest, and sterile portions of the United States. The design 
at first was merely to exhibit the limits or boundaries of these por- 
tions of the country, and this has been faithfully executed by Dr. J. 
G. Cooper, to whom the ^york was intrusted, as far as the materials 



36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

could be gathered from all the accessible published data, the records 
of the Land Office, and other sources. The facts presented at once 
to the eye by this map are in striking accordance, as we have before 
mentioned, with the deductions from the meteorological materials 
which have been collected at this Institution, and serve to place in a 
clear point of view the connexion of climate with the natural produc- 
tions of different parts of the earth. The plan has. however, since 
been enlarged, and Dr. Cooper now proposes, with the aid of the 
Institution, to construct a map which shall give in detail the distribu- 
tion of the several kinds of trees and shrubs found in different por- 
tions of the country; and, in view of this, he has prepared an article, 
which has been published and widely distributed by the Institution, 
containing a list of the localities of the most important and useful 
trees and shrubs, as far as known, and asking additional information. 
The chief difficulty in carrying out the plan has been the want of 
definite knowledge as to the locality of different plants: for example. 
a plant is mentioned as occurring in Virginia, but this statement is 
not sufficiently precise, since this State occupies a large surface, 
on a small portion of which only the plant may be found. Facts are 
also required as to the abundance of trees in a given locality. 

The collection of the material for a map of this kind, in connexion 
with a work on the forest trees of America, still in progress by Dr. 
Asa Gray, of Cambridge, is a very important matter both in a politi- 
cal and an economical point of view, and the work might be materially 
aided, without much expense to the government, by appending a few 
additional queries to the questions propounded by the marshals who 
collect the statistics of the census. The outline map. which has al- 
ready been prepared at the expense of the Institution, has excited 
much interest, and the proposition to enlarge the plan of the work 
has been received with commendation. 

As an interesting object in regard to physical geography, and 
intimately connected with meterology and various branches of natural 
history, a commencement has been made, in connexion with the Coast 
Survey, in collecting materials for the construction of a hypso- 
metrical map of the United States. 

No part of the surface of the earth, of equal dimensions, has been 
so extensively traversed by lines of explorations for canals, railways, 
and river improvements, as the United States. The materials, how- 
ever, which are afforded by these, for constructing a map of the ele- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. o7 

vations and depressions of the surface of the country are widely scat- 
tered, and unless an effort be made to collect them will ultimately be 
lost. Previous to the connexion of the Institution with this enterprise, 
circulars were sent by the Coast Survey to engineers and directors 
of public works, in answer to which replies were received giving the 
elevation of a large number of points. Since this connexion another 
circular has been issued, to which a large additional number of an- 
swers have been received. The whole number of points heard from 
is about 9, 000. Many of the replies to the circulars have been ac- 
companied by valuable topographical information and maps, some of 
which, as testified by the contributors, were rescued from the obliv- 
ion which has been the fate of the records of many of the earlier sur- 
veys. For the exhibition of these points, in connexion with the to- 
pography of the country, it is proposed to have them plotted on a 
map consisting of two sheets, with a projection of -3-0^0 ou- ^ ne 
sheet is to show the surface east of the Rocky mountains, the lines 
of water courses, and is to be filled up from the best existing maps: the 
western sheet is to be copied from the map of the same scale, issued 
from the office of the Pacific Railroad explorations. An accurate out- 
line map of the United States on this scale will be of great import- 
ance as a base-chart on which to delineate the result of various other 
statistical inquiries which have been instituted by this establishment. 
Mr. Lewis H. Morgan, of Rochester, New 7 York, having studied for 
several years the ethnological peculiarities of the Indians of the 
North American continent, has discovered among them a system of 
relationship which he wishes to compare with the systems of con- 
sanguinity existing among the natives of other countries, and the 
Institution, at his request, in order to aid in this research, has dis- 
tributed circulars to our consuls, missionaries, and ethnologists in 
various parts of the world. The peculiar system of relationship of 
the Iroquois, one of the principal families of American Indians first 
attracted the attention of Mr. Morgan. The fundamental idea of this 
system, which is carried out with great logical rigor, is, that the bond 
of consanguinity is never suffered to lose itself in the ever diverging 
collateral lines — the degrees of relationship are never allowed to pass 
beyond that of first cousins; after that the collateral lines are merged 
in the lineal lines, so that the son of a cousin becomes a nephew, 
and the son of this nephew becomes a grandson. This principle ex- 
tends upwards as well as downwards, so that the brother of a man's 



38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

father becomes his father, and the brother of his grandfather be- 
comes also his grandfather. At first Mr. Morgan supposed this 
peculiar system to be confined to the Iroquois, but subsequent inves- 
tigation developed the fact that the same system in its complexity 
and precision is common to all the Indian tribes of North America. 
It therefore becomes an object of interest to inquire whether the 
same system exists among the natives of any other country. It is 
proper to remark that, at the request of the Institution, General 
Cass, the Secretary of State, has given to this interesting inquiry 
the official sanction of his Department, and in a letter appended to 
our circular, has commended it to all the diplomatic agents of the gov- 
ernment abroad. 

Laboratory. — During the last year the laboratory has been under 
the direction of Dr. B. F. Craig, of this city, and, as in former years, 
a considerable number of specimens of the products of different parts 
of the country have been examined. The policy adopted from the 
first in regard to examinations of this kind is to furnish a report free 
of cost to the parties asking for the information, provided it is 
of general interest and immediately connected with the advance of 
science, and can be afforded at little expense to the Institution. If, 
however, the examination is required principally to promote private 
interests, a charge is made sufficient to cover the expense of the in- 
vestigation. By the adoption of this policy, the laboratory is kept in 
operation by means of a small appropriation for chemicals and ap- 
paratus. 

It may be proper to mention that during the year Dr. Craig has 
been engaged in investigations, on his own account, in the laboratory ? 
and that Mr. J. H. Lane has made a series of experiments relative 
to different points connected with the Atlantic telegraph. 

31agnetic Observatory. — The remaining instruments necessary to 
complete the equipment of the magnetic observatory established at 
the joint expense of the Institution and the Coast Survey were re- 
ceived and put into operation in the early part of the year; but as it 
has been found that the changes in the direction and intensity of the 
elements of terrestrial magnetism at Toronto, Philadelphia, and 
Washington are almost precisely the same, it has been considered 
that more important service would be rendered to the inquiries now 
being made in regard to this branch of physics, if the instruments Avere 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39 

placed in some more distant position, and it has been determined to 
send them to the Tortngas, a group of islands within the Gulf of 
Mexico, at which the United States coast survey has also a tidal 
station. A single instrument, however, is still to be kept in opera- 
tion at the observatory to record the changes in declination and to 
•exhibit the perturbations connected with the appearance of the 
:aurora borealis. 

Exchanges. — The general system of international exchange, which has 
been the subject of so much attention heretofore, continues to increase 
in magnitude and importance. By reference to the special report on 
this subject, it will be seen that the operations have been more exten- 
sive in 1859 than during any preceding year. The facilities afforded to 
the operations of the Institution in the department of exchanges and 
of natural history by various transportation express companies, as 
referred to in the preceding reports, have been continued throughout 
the year. The steamers of the North German Lloyd have carried a 
large amount of freight for the Institution, free of charge, between 
Bremen and New York, as promised by their directors, at the in- 
stance of Mr. Schleiden, minister from Bremen, resident in Wash- 
ington. The steamer lines to California, consisting of the United 
States Mail Co., M. 0. Roberts, President; the Panama Railroad 
•Co., David Hoadley, president; and the Pacific Mail Co., W. H. 
Davidge, president, transported a large amount of material for the 
Institution up to the expiration of their mail contract in October, when 
the North Atlantic Steamship Co., I. W. Raymond, president, re- 
placed the United States Mail Co. in the line, which has since 
continued the same favors. Mr. Bartlett, of New York, has offered 
the use of his line of ships to the west coast of South America, and 
the exchanges with Chili are now carried on chiefly through his ves- 
sels. The steamer Isabel, Messrs. Mordecai & Co., of Charleston, 
agents, has transported a number of packages for the Institution be- 
tween Charleston and Key "West, free of charge, and Messrs. Russell, 
Major & Waddel, army contractors of transportation to Utah, have also 
rendered valuable service in this line. The Adams Express Co., through 
Mr. Shoemaker, the superintendent of its southern division, has also 
exhibited liberality in reducing its charges greatly on heavy freights, 
and in carrying small parcels free of cost. It is difficult to esti- 
mate the value to the Institution of all these services. They are 
interesting as exhibiting a high appreciation of the mission and 
operations of the Institution, at the same time that they disclose a 



40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

spirit of liberality as gratifying as it is beneficial. It is believed that 
an amount of at least $1,500 has been saved by these free freights dur- 
ing the year, a sum which in effect may be considered as having been 
added to the income of the Institution, and thereby correspondingly 
increasing its means of usefulness. Acknowledgments are due to a 
number of persons in the United States who have assisted without 
charge in distributing the volumes of Smithsonian Contributions, viz: 
Hickling, Swan & Brewer, of Boston; D. Appleton & Co., New York; 
J. B. Lippincott & Co., Philadelphia; Russell <fe Jones, Charleston; 
Robert Clarke & Co., Cincinnati; and Bloomfield, Steele & Co., in New 
Orleans. Messrs. J. W. Raymond and Mr. W. H. Wickham, of New 
York, and Mr. A. B. Forbes, of San Francisco, agents of the California 
lines referred to above, have rendered services of a similar character. 
It is gratifying to be able to repeat the statement made in previous 
reports, that all Smithsonian packages are allowed to pass free of 
duty and without examination at the custom-houses of all the civil- 
ized countries with which the Institution is in correspondence. 

Library. — During the past year the plan adopted in regard to the 
increase of the library has been constantly kept in view, namely, to 
procure as perfect and extensive a series as possible of the transac- 
tions and proceedings of all the learned societies which now exist or 
have existed in different parts of the world. The library, in this 
respect, is now perhaps the first in the United States, and has in- 
creased, since the date of the last Report, not only by the addition of 
the current publications but by a number of new series and of volumes 
to complete sets hitherto imperfect. 

The catalogue of the serial publications of foreign learned societies,. 
State governments, universities, public libraries, and private parties, 
contained in the library, mentioned in the last report, has been pub- 
lished. It forms a book of 259 octavo pages and includes all the 
collections of the kind above mentioned, down to the middle of the- 
year 1859. Copies of this have been sent to all the foreign societies, 
with a request that deficient series of volumes or parts of volumes 
"be supplied, and that any works of the same kind which are not to 
he found in the catalogue be furnished from duplicates at the disposal 
of any of the establishments with which the Institution is in cor- 
respondence. 

The distribution of this catalogue to the principal institutions of 
this country and abroad will not only facilitate the completion of the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41 

design of forming as perfect a collection us possible of transactions, 
but will also render the library more generally useful to the cultiva- 
tors of science in the United States. But the most important means 
of facilitating the use of a special library of this class of Works will 
be that of the publication of the classified index of all the physical 
] tapers contained in the transactions, now in progress at the expense 
and under the direction of the Royal Society of London. This 
index is confined to papers relating to astronomy, mathematics, and 
general physics, and even with this restriction will include about 
250,000 titles. 

Professor J. Victor Cams, of Leipsic, informs us that during the 
last two years he has been collecting materials towards a general 
catalogue of zoological literature, from 1750 up to the present day, 
including not only all the separately published works, books, and 
pamphlets, but also and especially all the papers, notices, and articles 
contained in periodicals, the number of which is increasing every 
year. The titles and references will be arranged systematically, not 
according to the alphabet of authors, but within* the classes and 
groups according to the alphabet of the genera, so that at a glance 
the whole literature of a particular genus may be found. The 
author calls for aid in obtaining information as to American zoological 
papers contained in periodicals difficult of access, and any one who 
can assist in this desirable object would confer a favor by forwarding 
to him, through the Institution, information bearing on this subject. 

To assist in the same general plan of facilitating the acquisition of a 
knowledge of what has been done in different branches of science, 
the Institution has authorized the preparation of a bibliography of 
American botany, by Mr. Thurber, of New York, under the direction 
of Dr. Torrey. 

Since the date of the last Report, the act amendatory of the law 
relating to the disposition of books intended for copyright has gone 
into operation. This act merely requires that one copy of every 
article intended to be secured to the author by copyright is to be 
deposited with the clerk of the district court from whom the certifi- 
cate is obtained, and repeals the requirement that a copy should be 
presented to the library of Congress and to that of the Smithsonian 
Institution. All the books which have heretofore been deposited 
with the district clerks, and those which may be obtained in future, 
are to be arranged in the Patent Office, where they will form an 



42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

extensive collection, the support and preservation of which,. however 
interesting to the bibliographer, are not in accordance with the gen- 
eral objects of the Smithsonian Institution, although as the means of 
securing evidence of title they are in strict conformity with the 
design of the Patent Office. 

Few, comparatively, of the books which were received by the In- 
stitution under the operation of the copyright law were of any 
scientific value, and by far the greater number, consisting of ele- 
mentary school books and publications designed especially for children, 
were entirely foreign to the plan of the library, and yet they have cost 
the Institution for postage, certificates, entries, care, &c, several thou- 
sand dollars. It now becomes a matter of consideration as to their 
disposition, and petitions have been received from the Washington 
Library and that of the Young Men's Christian Association, of this 
city, that they may be placed in their charge. Without expressing 
any opinion as to the propriety of complying with these requests, I 
beg to submit these propositions to the Board. 

The operation of the former law of copyright illustrates the neces- 
sity of caution, on the part of the Institution, in receiving miscel- 
laneous donations into a special collection without careful discrimi- 
nation, particularly if the gift is coupled with the condition that 
the articles are to be perpetually preserved. Without care in 
this respect a large amount of trash must inevitably accumulate, 
which will interfere with the extension of the collection in the 
desired direction. 

Among the special donations to the library are a series of expensive 
illustrated works from the Duke of Northumberland, privately printed 
by him as materials for the history of the county which bears his 
name. They include a survey of the Roman wall which was built across 
the north of England, a description of coins of the Roman families, 
some of which were found in that locality, and an account of some 
ancient castles which possess historical interest. 

Another portion of the great work of Lepsius on Egypt has been 
presented by the King of Prussia, and valuable donations in the way 
of completing our transactions have been received from different 
societies. 

The purchases for the library have been principally in the way of 
completing such transactions and of supplying such additional series 
as we have failed to obtain through our exchanges. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43 

The library now contains a very large collection of the catalogues 
and reports of different public institutions in this country, which have 
been classified and arranged in a separate apartment so as to be 
readily accessible for statistical inquiries; and we trust that this 
collection will continually be enlarged by additions of the current 
reports, particularly those of all institutions which receive the Smith- 
sonian publications. 

Meteorology. — The arrangement between the Patent Office and this 
Institution in relation the collection of meteorological statistics still 
continues. The amount appropriated, however, by the former has 
been less than in previous years. The observers have very much in- 
creased in number, and are now divided into three classes — the first 
making records with a full set of instruments, the second with a 
thermometer and rain gage, and the third without instruments; all, 
however, reporting the state of the sky, the direction of the wind, 
beginning and ending of storms, and casual phenomena. All the 
observations which have been taken since 1854 have been reduced, 
and are now in the hands of the Commissioner of Patents to be pre- 
sented to Congress as an Appendix to his Agricultural Report. It is 
presumed they will be ordered to be printed since they form an in- 
teresting part of the agricultural statistics called for by the Depart- 
ment of the Interior. 

The several systems of observations made in different parts of the 
American continent have been continued and extended during the 
past year. Those under the direction of the Surgeon General of the 
United States have been made to include the new military posts of 
the army, and a series of investigations of much interest has been 
prosecuted in California by Lieut. R. S. Williamson, of the topo- 
graphical corps, relative to the diurnal changes, the diminution of 
temperature depending upon elevation, and the extent of simultaneous 
barometrical fluctuations. 

Observations have also been made by the following surveying and 
exploring parties, sent out under different departments of the gov- 
ernment, viz: 

Under the Interior Department: 

The Wagon Road Expedition from South Pass to California, under 
command of F. W. Lander. 

The survey of the boundary between Texas and New Mexico, 
John H. Clark, commissioner. 



44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Under the State Department: 

The northwestern boundary survey, Archibald Campbell, commis- 
sioner. 

Under the War Department: 

Explorations in Utah, by Captain J. H. Simpson, U. S. A. 

Explorations of the head waters of the Missouri and Yellowstone, 
by Captain W. F. Raynolds, U. S. A. 

The Wagon Road Expedition from Walla-Walla to Fort Benton, 
Lieutenant John Mullan, U. S. A. 

Exploration of San Juan and Upper Colorado, by Capt. J. N. Ma- 
comb, U. S. Top. Engs. 

Observations for determining the rise and fall of the lake surface, 
by Capt. A. W. Whipple, U. S. Top. Engs. 

Survey of the northern and northwestern lakes,, by Capt. G. G. 
Meade, U. S. Top. Engs. 

State of Texas. Geological survey of the State, B. F. Shumard, 
State geologist. 

In addition to the regular observations, the following were re- 
ceived by the Institution during the year 1859: 

From Dr. S. P. Hildreth, Marietta, Ohio, observations for forty- 
two years, from 1818 to 1859. inclusive, on the barometer, thermom- 
eter, and amount of rain, with remarks on the weather. 

From Professor A. Caswell, Brown University, Providence, Rhode 
Island, observations for twenty-eight years, from 1832 to 1859 inclusive, 
on barometer, thermometer, winds, rain, and remarks on the weather. 

From Dr. Nathan D. Smith, near Washington, Arkansas, observa- 
tions for twenty years, from 1840 to 1859, inclusive, on thermometer, 
rain, and remarks on the weather. 

From Hiram A. Cutting, Lunenburg, Vermont, abstracts of ther- 
mometer observations, from 1848 to 185S, inclusive. 

From Henry Connelly, Rigolet, Esquimaux bay, Labrador, observa- 
tions on barometer and thermometer, from November, 1857, to May, 
1859, inclusive. 

From Abram Van Doren, Falmouth, Virginia, psychrometrical ob- 
servations at Mount Langton, Bermuda, from November, 1847, to 
May, 1848, and from November, 1848, to March, 1850, inclusive. 

From Dr. John F. Posey, Savannah, Georgia, hourly barometrical 
and thermometrical observations during half the day for about ten 
days in each month, from May, 1858, to September, 1859, inclusive. 



RETORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45 

From Queen's College, Kingston, Canada West, summary of ob- 
servations for 1858. 

The observations from Captain George G. Meade, noted on the 
opposite page, consist of fifty-eight sheets, made with full sets of 
instruments, on the northern and northwestern lakes, from June, 
1858, to November, 1859, inclusive. The continuation of these will 
be of much value in regard to the climate of this region. Those from 
Captain A. W. Whipple were made at Oswego harbor, Detroit river, 
St. Clair flats, and Lake George, of St. Mary's river, for the purpose 
of determining the rise and fall of the lake surface, from the year 
1854 to 1859, inclusive. 

Between four and five thousand newspaper notices of the weather 
of 1859 have been cut out and preserved. Besides the papers re- 
ceived by the Institution, a large number of exchange papers are 
obtained from the office of the Evening Star. These two sources 
together furnish the means, either by original or copied articles, of 
obtaining popular notices of the principal changes of weather and 
meteorological phenomena in nearly all parts of the country. The 
method of preserving the scraps is to paste them on sheets arranged, 
not by the date of the paper, but by that of the occurrence noted. 
By this arrangement all notices of any storm, hot or cold terms, 
aurora, earthquake, or any other phenomenon, are brought together, 
no matter how widely apart may be the place of publication. It 
would be an acceptable donation if all readers, when they meet with 
any meteorological scrap worthy of preservation, would send the 
paper containing it to the Institution, or the article cut out, with the 
name, date, and place of publication of the paper plainly marked on 
the slip. Without these marks it would be sometimes impossible 
to identify either time or locality. The preferable mode is to send 
the entire paper. 

A general distribution of blanks is made twice a year. In this 
distribution twelve blanks are sent to each observer, one for each 
month, to be retained for his own use, and one to be returned to the 
Institution. 

As the registers come from all parts of the country, and arrive at 
different times, a number are received every day, sometimes as many 
as thirty or forty. A book is kept containing the names of all the 
observers, with their place of observation; and when the registers 
are received, an entry of each one is made in this book, so that, by 
inspection, it can be seen at any time for what months registers have 



46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

been received from each observer. A memorandum is also made of 
deficiencies, omissions, instruments used, discontinuance, change of 
address, or such other items as may be necessary for reference or to 
show the character of the observations. The date of the reception 
is marked in red ink on each register, and they are placed on 
shelves, those for each month being kept together. With the re- 
gisters, letters are often received asking for information on meteor- 
ological and other subjects. These embrace a very wide range of 
inquiry, and, with the other letters received, make large demands on 
the time of the secretary. When a number of registers have accu- 
mulated, they are sent to Professor Coffin, at Easton, Pennsylvania, 
who, with his corps of assistants, makes the reductions and prepares 
them for publication. 

Early in March, when a sufficient time is supposed to have elapsed 
to allow all, or nearly all, the registers for the preceding year 
to be received by due course of mail, an examination of the record 
is made, and a notice is sent to each observer, Avhose register for 
any month may not have reached us, informing him of the deficiency, 
and requesting that, if possible, it may be supplied. 

It sometimes happens that through loss in the mail or other causes 
the blanks fail to reach some of the observers, and their stock, there- 
fore, becomes exhausted before the time for the semi-annual distri- 
bution. In such cases, as soon as the Institution is informed of the 
fact, a new supply is forwarded. 

Three forms of blanks are now distributed, corresponding to the 
three classes of observers: First, a large blank, marked No. 1, which 
contains columns for the records of the barometer, its observed 
height, attached thermometer, and height reduced to the freezing 
point; of the thermometer in the open air; the psychrometer, or 
wet and dry bulb thermometer; the depth of each rain and snow, 
with the time of beginning and ending; the direction and force of 
winds; the kind, amount, and motion of clouds; and also for the force 
of vapor and relative humidity of the atmosphere as deduced from 
the observations with the wet and dry bulb thermometers. 

Second, a blank half the size of the former, marked No. 2, and 

containing all the columns which are on the first blank, except those 

for the barometer and psychrometer, and the deductions from them. 

Third, a blank the same size as the second, marked No. 3, and 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47 

containing columns for such observations only as may be made without 
any instruments, viz: the amount, kind, and motion of clouds; the 
time of beginning and ending of rain and snow, the direction and 
force of wind by estimation, and general remarks on the weather. 
On the reverse of all the blanks is a place for remarks on casual 
phenomena, as tornadoes, auroras, meteors, &c. 

The importance of such meteorological records as may be kept with- 
out instruments seems to be much underrated, and many persons have 
declined to make or continue observations unless supplied with full 
•sets of instruments, assigning as a reason that such records can be of 
no value. But a little reflection will show that these observations 
may furnish interesting and important information. If kept daily 
and in all parts of the country and sent to the Institution, they would, 
without the aid of any other record, enable an investigator to deter- 
mine the direction and rate of motion of every storm, hurricane, 
tornado, and thunder shower in the United States, and also the time 
and place of their origin and termination when these occurred within 
the limits of the observers. 

They would enable him to mark out with accurate lines the districts 
most subject to these atmospheric disturbances, and those free from 
them or only partially visited, and also the portions of the year at 
which they are most or least frequent. They would enable him to 
ascertain the number, extent, and principal phenomena of all the 
auroras, earthquakes, and meteors; the occurrence of the first, last, 
and severe frosts, the comparative duration of clear and cloudy 
weather, and the prevailing winds, both surface and upper current. 
If to ascertain these points in the meteorology of every part of 
North America is important, then the keeping such records as may be 
made without instruments ought not to be omitted. While there are 
persons in every neighborhood in this country who could faith- 
fully and accurately fill these blanks, the number who can obtain 
instruments and properly observe them must be comparatively limited. 

Frequent applications are made to the Institution offering to record 
meteorological observations for a reasonable pecuniary compensation. 
But the policy originally adopted, on account of the want of means, 
of declining to pay observers, has been uniformly adhered to. To 
depart from this policy, while it might here and there secure an addi- 
tional observer, would involve difficulties of discrimination altogether 
disproportionate to the advantage gained. While, however, no 



48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

pecuniary compensation is made to observers, the facilities exten ed 
to them, besides the reports and other documents occasionally dis- 
tributed, though not expected to be a remuneration for the time and 
labor devoted to the subject, are still of some value. An inducement 
also exists in the pleasure to be derived from the study of the changes 
of the phenomena of nature, besides the consciousness of co-operating 
with many others in a system intended to advance an important branch 
of science. 

Although the information derived from the system of observations? 
under the immediate direction of the Institution, is exceedingly'* 
valuable in many points, it is to be regretted that changes in the 
observers are so frequent. The value in determining the great ques- 
tion as to the periodicity of the weather and its average conditions 
as to heat, moisture, cloudiness, occurrence of frosts, &c, other things 
being the same, depend upon the length of time the series of observa- 
tions have been continued, and results which may be relied upon 
as the element of insurance against failure of crops and disasters by 
storms are valuable strictly in proportion to the number of years 
embraced in the observations. 

The reason why meteorology is not further advanced is not on 
account of the want of observations, but of extended series at a 
number of properly chosen places. From observations of this kind 
it is found that much of the apparent irregularity and caprice of the 
weather is due to our limited vision, and that by extending the records 
and properly studying them, many phenomena which are apparently 
fitful and exempt from all law will be reduced to order and periodicity. 

According to Mr. Glaisher's investigations of the records made at 
the Royal Observatory for a long series of years, there is a rotation 
in the character of the weather at London about every fifteen years, 
the seasons growing warmer and warmer until they reach a maximum 
of temperature, and then gradually colder until they come to the 
lowest point, when they begin a new cycle of temperature. A series 
of meteorological tables may appear to the casual observer a mere 
mass of dull, uninteresting figures, yet a little study will enable us, 
says a popular writer of the day, to read in them the past history of 
"rich harvests, prosperous commerce, good health, plenty, and con- 
tentment; or, perhaps, the gloomier side of the picture, scanty crops 
and high prices, stagnant trade and social irritation, prevalent diseases 
and busy death;" and, it might be added, a still greater interest is 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49 

inspired by the prospect they afford, that in the course of time they 
will not only reflect the past but foreshow the future, and enable us 
by their timely monitions to avail ourselves of the benignity, or 
guard against the ravage of the coming day. 

During the year 1859 a remarkable exhibition of the Aurora 
Borealis occurred, and special efforts have been made to collect all 
the reliable observations which could be obtained in regard to this 
phenomenon. The materials thus accumulated have been arranged 
and will be published in order to render them generally accessible. 
The occurrence of the Aurora, as is well known from the observa- 
tions of Arago and others, is attended with a remarkable disturbance 
of the magnetic needle; and since the latter, as has been shown in 
the account of the paper of Dr. Bache, is connected with the spots 
on the sun, it would follow that the Aurora, although apparently of 
electrical origin, is connected with influences entirely exterior to our 
planet, and hence precise information as to its appearance over so 
wide an area as that in which it was exhibited about the beginning 
of September last, must be specially acceptable to the student of 
terrestrial physics. 

Two remarkable meteors have appeared during the last year, one 
of which exploded near the boundary between New York and Mas- 
sachusetts, and the other apparently descended to the earth either in 
Delaware bay or in the ocean in its vicinity. All the facts collected 
in regard to these mysterious visitants of our atmosphere have been 
referred to scientific gentlemen for critical examination, the results 
of which will be published either by the Institution or in the Ameri- 
can Journal of Science. 

The reduction of the current observations is continued by Professor 
Coffin, who is also engaged, with the assistance of the Institution, in 
the investigation of the winds of the southern hemisphere and in the 
extension of his previous researches in regard to those in the northern 
hemisphere. 

The office duties of distributing the blanks; arranging the meteoro- 
logical material and returns received from- observers; of superintend- 
ing the observations made at the Institution, and in assisting in the 
Smithsonian publications relative to meteorology, are assigned to Mr. 
William Q. Force, of Washington, and to his industry, ingenuity, and 
efficiency the system owes many improvements. 
4 



50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Museum. — During the year 1859 the labelling and repairing the 
specimens received from the Patent Office, and setting up and classi- 
fying new specimens collected by the Institution, or deposited by dif- 
ferent government explorations, have been uninterruptedly continued 
under the immediate direction of Professor Baird. 

The extensive series of corals collected during the United States 
exploring expedition have been arranged and labelled by Professor- 
Dana, of New Haven, by whom they were originally described, and 
now constitute an interesting and attractive part of the general mu- 
seum. We have also employed a distinguished conchologist, Mr. P. 
P. Carpenter, of Warrington, England, to classify and label the ex- 
tensive collection of shells, and have been favored in this work with 
the co-operation of the principal gentlemen most distinguished in 
this country for their original investigations in this branch of natural 
history. Mr. Isaac Lea, of Philadelphia, assisted by Dr. Foreman, 
has named the Unionida?; Mr. Binney, of New Jersey, the Helicidas; 
Mr. Stimpson, the shells of the eastern coast of the United States; 
and Dr. Gould has identified the new species of the exploring expe- 
dition, and rendered aid in the classification of the collection gene- 
rally. Assistance has also been rendered by Mr. J. G. Anthony, Mr. 
James Lewis, Dr. Newcomb. and Mr. Lapham. 

A taxidermist has been constantly engaged in going over the col- 
lection. He has mounted several hundred new specimens of birds, 
and set up a considerable number of large quadrupeds. 

According to the statement of Professor Baird, the number of en- 
tries in the record books, of additions to the museum, in the line of 
zoology, during the year 1859, amounts to 11,691, and the whole 
number of records in all the books is 37,197; but, as explained in 
previous reports, this number is far from exhibiting the aggregate of 
specimens catalogued; each entry frequently includes all the speci- 
mens of any one species received at one time from one locality, and, 
in some cases, embraces several hundred individual objects. It will 
not be too high if we estimate five specimens on the average to each 
entry, and we shall then have 185,985 as the aggregate of these ob- 
jects now in the museum. In addition to the foregoing, there is a 
large collection of specimens in ethnology, botany, mineralogy, and 
geology. 

The object of the Institution in obtaining so large a number of du- 
plicates is, that they may be distributed for the advancement of 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51 

knowledge to persons who may be engaged in original investigations 
in natural history, to museums for the completion of their lists, and 
also to colleges for the purposes of education. 

As it is not a part of the policy of the Institution to form a general 
collection like that of the British museum, which can only be the 
work of the general government, but to assist in advancing and 
diffusing a knowledge of the natural history of North America, we 
have been anxious to distribute the duplicates in such a manner as 
to render them subservient to the objects in view, and it is hoped 
that we shall begin the work of distribution within the present year. 
As usual, a number of young gentlemen have availed themselves of 
the facilities offered by the library and collections of the Institution to 
prosecute their researches in different branches of natural history; 
and in some cases, in which such confidence seemed fully justified, 
series of specimens have been intrusted for examination to indi- 
viduals at a distance. Although the primary object of the Institu- 
tion is not educational, yet the museum is arranged with especial 
reference to the study of the elements of different branches of science; 
and the distribution of the extra specimens will furnish the means of 
diffusing a knowledge of natural history more generally throughout 
the country. 

Explorations. — A number of expeditions sent out by the general 
government have been furnished with instructions, and in some cases 
with apparatus for the collection of objects of natural history, and 
several explorations have been undertaken by individuals under the 
immediate auspices of the Institution. I need only mention in this 
place that conducted by Mr. Robert Kennicott in the regions of the 
Hudson's Bay territory and in Russian America. This young gentle- 
man is assisted by the Smithsonian Institution, the University of 
Michigan, the Audubon Club and Academy of Sciences of ChicagO' ? 
and a number of liberal-minded persons interested in natural history. 
His labors have been greatly facilitated by the cordial co-operation 
of Sir George Simpson, governor, and the other officers of the Hud- 
son's Bay Company, to whom we are also indebted for valuable dona- 
tions of specimens and records of meteorological observations. 

For a detailed account of the explorations and the museum, I refer 
to the report of Professor Baird hereto appended. 



52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Lectures. — The following lectures were delivered during the winter 
of 1859-'60: 

Six lectures by Professor Samuel W. Johnson, of Yale College, on 
Agricultural Chemistry: 

1. The Plant, its Structure and Composition. 

2. The Atmosphere and Water in their relation to Vegetable 
Growth. 

3. The Soil, as related to Agricultural Productions. 

4. The Improvement of the Soil by Tillage, Drainage, Amendments, 
and Fertilizers. 

5. The Conversion of Vegetable into Animal Produce. 

6. Systems of Farm Practice Viewed in the Light of Agricultural 
Science; Rotation of Crops; Exhaustion and Maintenance of Agricul- 
tural Resources. 

Three lectures by Philip P. Carpenter, esq., of England: 

1. Shells of the Gulf of California. 

2. The Cuttle Fish Tribe, their Forms and Habits in the Ancient 
and Existing Seas; including the Paper and Pearly Nautilus, &c. 

3. Crawling Shells. 

One lecture by Professor Henry Coppee, of the University of 
Pennsylvania, on Coincidences in the Conquests of Mexico. 

Four lectures by Professor Benjamin Peirce, of Harvard College, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts : 

Two on The Diversities in Mathematical Powers of Different Races 
.and Nationalities ; 

Two on Comets. 

'Three lectures by Dr. Benjamin A. Gould, of Cambridge, Massa- 
'cliusetts, on Chance, Probability, Accident, 

Three lectures by Professor A. T. Bledsoe, of the University of 
Virginia, on The Social Destiny of Man. 

Three lectures by the Rt. Rev. M. J. Spaulding, Bishop of Louis- 
ville, Kentucky, on The Elements and History of Modern Civilization. 

One lecture by William Gilpin, esq., of Missouri, on The Charac- 
teristics and Physical Geography of the Western Portion of North 
America. 

Five lectures by T. Sterry Hunt, F. R. S., of the Geological Survey 
of Canada: 

1. On Chemical and Physical Geology; Introduction of Geological 
Agencies. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53 

2. Chemistry of the Earth's Crust. 

3. Life in its Geological Relations. 

4. Geology of the Metals. Mineral Springs, Metamorphism. 

5. Igneous Rocks, Volcanoes, Mountain Chains. 

The interest is still kept up in the lectures, although they occasion- 
ally called forth criticisms on account of the character of particular 
courses, which, while they are received with much interest by one 
class of hearers, are not in accordance with the taste of those whose 
pursuits or reading lie in an opposite direction. 

While a large number of persons regularly attend the lectures for 
the sake of the advantage to be derived from them, others, and par- 
ticularly young persons, attend as a mere pastime, or assemble in the 
lecture room as a convenient place of resort, and by their whispering 
annoy those who sit near them. Frequent complaints have been 
made on this account, and it has been suggested that it might be 
well to try, as an experiment, a plan similar to that adopted at the 
Lowell Institute, in which, as in the case of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, free lectures are given to a promiscuous audience. To secure 
proper order, and to prevent the interruption of the speaker by per- 
sons arriving after the lecturer has commenced, a series of numbered 
tickets may be distributed at the commencement of the season, and 
the names of the persons who receive them entered in a book, oppo- 
site the number of the ticket; and in addition to this, the doors may 
be closed a few minutes after the lecture commences. 

Respectfully submitted. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 

Secretary. 

January, 1860. 



54 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY- 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, December 31, 1859. 

Sir: I have the honor herewith to present a report, for 1859, of the 
operations you have intrusted to my charge, namely, those which 
relate to the printing, the exchanges, and to the collections of natural 
history. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, 
Assistant Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Prof. Joseph Henry, LL.D. 

Sewetary Smithsonian Institution. 



PUBLICATIONS. 



The publications of the Institution during the past year have been 
as follows : 

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the 
Institution for the year 1858. One volume, 8vo., pp. 448. 

An account of the Total Eclipse of the Sun on September 7. 1858. 
as observed near Olmos, Peru. By Lieutenant J. M. G-illiss, United 
States navy. 4to. pp. 24, and one plate. 

Catalogue of Publications of Societies and of other Periodical 
Works in the Library of the. Smithsonian Institution. July 1, 1858. 
Part 1. Foreign works. 8vo. pp. 2G0. 

Appendix to the Catalogue of Described Diptera of North America. 
By Baron R. Osten Sacken. 8vo. pp. 4. 

Directions for Collecting, Preserving, and Transporting Specimens 
of Natural History, prepared for the use of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. Third edition. 8vo. pp. 40. 

Discussion of the Magnetic and Meteorological Observations made 
at the Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841,1842, 
1843, 1844, and 1845. Part 1. Investigations of the Eleven-Year 
Period in the Amplitude of the Solar-diurnal Variation, and of the 
Disturbances of the Magnetic Declination. By A. D. Bache, LL.D. 
Pages 22. Quarto. 

Meteorological Observations in the Arctic Seas. By Elisha Kent 
Kane, M. D., United States navy. Made during the second Grinnell 
expedition in search of Sir John Franklin, in 1853, 1854, and 1855, 
at Van Rensselaer harbor, and other points on the west coast of 
Greenland. Reduced and discussed by Charles A. Schott, assistant 
United States Coast Survey. Pages 120. Quarto. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 55 

The Coleoptera of Kansas and Eastern New Mexico. By John L. 
Leconte, M. D. Pages 6Q, and three plates. Quarto. 

Observations on Terrestrial Magnetism in Mexico, conducted under 
the direction of Baron Von Miiller, with notes and illustrations of the 
volcano Popocatapetl and its vicinity. By August Sonntag. Pages 
"92, and one plate. Quarto. 

Observations on Certain Storms in Europe and America, in De- 
cember, 1836. By Elias Loomis, LL.D., professor of natural phi- 
losophy in the University of the city of New York. Pages 28, and 
thirteen plates. Quarto. 

In addition to the preceding publications, the following are in an 
advanced stage of printing, and will be ready for distribution in a 
short time : 

Catalogue of the Described Lepidoptera of North America. By 
Rev. Dr. John G. Morris. Octavo. 

Check Lists of the Shells — land, fresh water, and marine — of North 
America. Octavo. 

Meteorological Observations made at Providence, Rhode Island. 
By Prof. A. Caswell. Quarto. 

Meteorological Observations made near Washington, Arkansas. By 
Dr. Nathan D. Smith. , Quarto. 

New Edition of the List of Foreign Institutions in Correspondence 
with the Smithsonian Institution. Octavo. 

Circular in reference to the collection of facts relating to the grass- 
liopper tribes of North America. Octavo. 

Circular in reference to the collecting of nests and eggs of North 
American birds. Octavo. 

Circular in reference to the collecting of North American shells. 
Octavo. 

EXCHANGES. 

As in previous years, a continuous increase and expansion of ope- 
rations has taken place in this department. The annexed tables will 
give a better account of their magnitude than any general remarks 
on the subject. It will be sufficient to say that the number of insti- 
tutions and individuals in the United States availing themselves of 
the Smithsonian facilities now embraces nearly all those publishing 
works of a scientific and literary character. 

The expenses of the system of exchanges conducted by the Insti- 
tution have, of course, increased with the expansion of operations, 
and but for the free facilities so generously accorded by various par- 
ties would have arisen to such an amount as to render it necessary to 
call on each of the institutions benefited for a share of the cost. 
This has not yet been done, except in the case of the United States 
Coast Survey, which has greatly exceeded all the rest in the bulk of 
its transmissions; but it may soon be required from other parties. 

The thanks of the Smithsonian Institution for free freights of pack- 
Ages containing exchanges and specimens of natural history are espe- 
cially due to the following companies: 



56 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

The North German Lloyd steamers, running between Bremen and 
New York, of which Messrs. Gelpcke, Keutgen, and Reichelt, 84 
Broadway, are agents. This line has carried 250 cubic feet for the 
Institution at a single trip, without charge. 

The California steamer line, consisting of the Pacific Mail Steam- 
ship Company, between San Francisco and Panama, (as well as 
between San Francisco and the ports of Oregon and Washington 
Territory,) of which Mr. W. A. Davidge is president; the Panama 
Railroad Company, David Hoadley, president; from Aspinwall to New 
York the line at first consisted of the United States Mail Steamship 
Company, M. 0. Roberts, president, up to the 5th of October last, 
when it was replaced in the route by the North Atlantic Steamship 
Company, I. W. Raymond, president. The agents of this line, Mr. W.. 
H. Wickham, at New York, and Mr. A. B. Forbes, assisted by Mr. 
Samuel Hubbard, at San Francisco, have also been very zealous in 
their attentions to the interests of the Institution. 

Messrs. Adams & Co., through the superintendent of the southern 
division, Mr. S. M. Shoemaker, of Baltimore, and the Washington 
agent, Mr. A. J. Falls, have very materially aided the Institution by 
a reduction of freights on heavy goods, and their remission entirely 
on small packages. This has also been done by Messrs. Wells, Fargo 
& Co. in California. 

The line of sailing vessels between New York and the west coast 
of South America, belonging to Mr. Bartlett, 110 Wall street, has- 
continued to carry our Chilean exchanges free of charge. 

To Mr. Edward Cunard, of New York, the Institution is indebted 
for the offer to carry a specified amount of freight from New York to 
Liverpool by his steamers, free of charge — a privilege which has al- 
ready, in part, been made use of. 

The Isabel steamer, running between Charleston, Key West, and 
Havana, has also continued to carry packages free of charge, through 
the liberality of the agents, Messrs. Mordccai & Co., of Charleston. 

Messrs. Russell & Jones, contractors of army transportation to 
Utah, and through Kansas and Nebraska, have also kindly extended 
the facilities of their line to the Institution. 

Considering the large amount of freight which some of the above- 
mentioned lines transport annually for the Smithsonian Institution, it 
will readily be understood how much they have assisted in carrying 
out its objects, as, with a fixed income, the expenses of the ex- 
changes and natural history operations conducted by the Institution 
would be entirely beyond its present means. 



Receipt of boohs, dec, by exchange, in 1859. 

Volumes — Octavo G59 

Quarto 303 

Folio 60 

1,022 

Parts of volumes and pamphlets: 

Octavo 1, 696 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



57 



Quarto 756 

Folio 88 

2,540 

Maps and charts 40 

Total 3,602 



Being an increase over the year 1858 of 1,062 volumes and parts 
of volumes. The number of separate donations amounted to 1,252. 

It will be remembered that this does not include the volumes pur- 
chased for the current researches and operations of the Institution, 
or for the completion of such series of transactions and periodicals as 
could not otherwise be obtained. 



B. 

Showing the statistics of foreign exchanges of the Smithsonian Institution 

in 1859. 



Agent and country. 


to 

© 
CQ 

W 

© 

-o 

O 

to 

O 


GO 

© 

to 

ci 

"o 
03 

Ck 

© 

CQ 
O 


to 

© 

O 

o 

to 

O 


a 

to 

© -u 

O e2 

© x> 

J= © 

n 


to 
eu 

H . 

© to 

«- 9 

O 5 

, o 

txj a 
•53 — 


1. Dr. Felix Fllgel, Leipsic — 


12 
5 
12 
38 
33 
31 
294 
12 


43 
22 
36 

112 
90 
87 

878 
43 








































































Total 


437 


1,311 


32 


440 


13,327 






2. H. Bossange, Paris — 


'105 

55 
3 
6 


333 
174 

8 
19 








Italy _ 
































Total 


169 


534 


15 


228 


5,753 






3. Henry Stevens, London — 


151 


670 
















Total 


151 


670 

— 


25 


346 


9,200 








68 


220 


10 


40 


1,200 






Grand total ............ 


825 


2,735 


82 


1,054 


29,480 







58 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



The great increase in the number and bulk of packages of books 
sent abroad during the period reported on is owing to several causes. 
Among these may be mentioned the fact that the table embraces the 
statistics of three different transmissions, rendered necessary by the 
accumulation of materials in the Smithsonian building. A large pro- 
portion of the works sent consisted of such publications of the 
United States government as the Pacific Railroad Report, the Mexi- 
can Boundary Report, the Report on Commercial Relations, the Coast 
Survey Report, &c. 

Of the Pacific Railroad Report alone, over one hundred sets were 
sent, in behalf of the War Department, to the principal public libra- 
ries and societies in Europe, and more than three hundred copies of 
the Coast Survey Report to similar institutions. The Patent Office 
exchanges with parties in Europe also occupied a very large bulk. 



Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from parties in America 
for foreign distribution in 1859. 



Albany, N. Y — 

Professor J. Hall...... . 

Boston — 

American Academy of Arts and Sciences 

Society of Natural History 

CanAridge, Mass. — 

American Association for the Advancement of Science 

Professor Gray . 

Charleston, S. C. — 

Elliott Society of Natural History 

Columbia, Mo. — 

Professor Swallow 

Columbus, Ohio — 

State Agricultural Society 

Des Moines, Iowa — 

State of Iowa 

Georgetown, D. C. — 

College . 

New Haven, Conn. — 

American Journal of Science . . 

American Oriental Society.. 

Professor J. D. Dana 

Yale College 

Little Rock, Ark. — 

State of Arkansas 

New York — 

New York Lyceum of Natural History 

Philadelphia — 

Academy of Natural Sciences 

American Philosophical Society 

Isaac Lea . 

Dr. Joseph Leidy 

W. Sharswood 

Providence, R. I. — 

State of Rhode Island 



Number of 
packages. 



08 

77 
40 

64 

15 

27 

17 

100 

193 

■ 6 

12 
19 

20 
2 

800 

74 

325 

132 

134 

30 

30 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 
C — Continued. 



59 



St. Louis, Mo. — 

Academy of Sciences 

Dr. B. F. Shumard 

Dr. George Engelniann 

Dr. Wizlizenus . 

Washington, D. C. — 

United States Patent Office 
United States Coast Survey 

Secretary of War 

lieutenant G. K. Warren . 

Miscellaneous 

Total 



Number of 
packages. 



148 

15 

90 

3 

1,344 

598 

245 

40 

633 



5,337 



D. 



Addressed 'packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe 
for distribution in America in 1859. 



Albany, N. Y. — 

Albany Institute _ 

Dudley Observatory 

New York State Library 

New York State Agricultural Society 

New York State Medical Society 

Professor James Hall 

Amherst, Mass. — 

Amherst College 

Ann Arbor, Mich. — 

Observatory 

Annapolis, Md. — 

United States Naval School 

Atlanta, Ga. — 

Medical College 

University of Georgia 

Baltimore, Md. — 

Maryland Historical Society 

Bloomington, Ind. — 

Indiana University 

Boston, Mass. — 

American Academy of Arts and Sciences 

American Statistical Association 

Boston Society of Natural History 

Bowditch Library 

Historical Society ... .. 

Prison Dicipline Society . 

Public Library 

State Library of Massachusetts 

Brunswick, Me. — 

Bowdoin College . 



Number of 
packages. 



2 
44 

18 



15 



64 

10 

43 

4 

2 

2 

21 

4 



60 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 
D — Continued. 



Burlington, Vt. — 

University of Vermont 

Cambridge, Mass. — 

American Association for the Advancement of Science 

Cambridge Astronomical Journal 

Cambridge Observatory 

Library of Harvard College 

Professor L. Agassiz ...... . 

Professor Asa Gray 

Professor B. Peirce . . . . . 

Charlottesville, Va. — 

University of Virginia 

Charleston, S. C — 

Eliott Society of Natural History 

Public Library 

Society Library . ........ 

Cincinnati, Ohio — 

Mercantile Library . 

Observatory 

Public Library 

Columbia, Mo. — 

Professor G. C. Swallow 

Columbia, S. C— 

South Carolina College 

Columbus, Ohio — 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture 

Chapel Hill, N. C — 

University of North Carolina 

Chicago, 111. — 

Mechanics' Institute 

Detroit, Mich. — 

Michigan State Agricultural Society 

Eastern, Pa. — 

Lafayette College . 

Frankfort, Ky. — 

Geological Survey of Kentucky 

Gambler, Ohio — 

Kenyon College ... . 

Georgetown, D. C. — 

Georgetown College 

Hanover, N. H. — 

Dartmouth College ....... 

Harrisburg, Pa. — 

State Library -. 

Hartford, Ct.— 

Toung Men's Institute . . 

Jacksonville, III. — 

Illinois College . 

Madison, Wis.— 

Wisconsin State Agricultural Society . 

Historical Society of W isconsin 

Milledgeville, Ga. — 

Oglethorpe University 

Montreal, Canada — 

Natural History Society ._ . 

Natchez, Miss. — 

Public Library 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 
D — Continued. 



61 



New Brunsivick, N. J- — 

Professor George H. Cook 

New Harmony, lnd. — 

Dr. D. D.Owen 

New Haven, Ct. — 

American Journal of Science 

American Oriental Society 

Professor J. D. Dana 

Professor Silliman 

Yale College - 

Ntwark, Del. — 

Delaware College 

New Orleans, La. — 

New Orleans Academy of Natural Science 

University of Louisiana -■ 

Newport, R. I. — 

Redwood Library . -. - • 

Neic York — 

American Ethnological Society - — 

American Geographical and Statistical Society 

American Institute --- — 

Astor Library .- 

Mercantile Library Association — 

New York Lyceum of Natural History 

Oregon city, 0. — 

University of Oregon 

Philadalphia, Pa. — 

Academy of Natural Sciences -- 

American Pbilosophical Society 

Central High School of Philadelphia 

Franklin Institute - - - 

Historical Society of Pennsylvania 

Pennsylvania Institute for the Blind 

Philadelphia College of Pharmacy 

Philadelphia Library Company. 

University of Pennsylvania 

Wagner Free Institute 

Isaac Lea 

Dr. John Leconte 

Dr. Joseph Leidy - ■ 

William Sharwood 

Princeton, N. J. — 

College of New Jersey 

Providence, R. 1 — 

Brown University 

Richmond, Va. — 

State Library 

Rochester, N. Y. — 

University — - 

San Francisco, C'al. — 

California Academy of Natural Sciences 

Geological Survey of California 

Savannah, Ga. — 

Georgia Historical Society 

St. Louis, Mo. — 

St. Louis Academy of Science 

University - 

Dr. B. F. Shumard 

Dr. Georsre Eugelmann 



Number of 
packages. 



10 



41 

25 
17 



31 

2 



7 
37 
8 
3 
7 
29 

1 

105 

G7 

6 

17 

1 



11 

1 
10 
16 

5 
19 
13 



23 
1 



70 

11 



C2 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 
D — Continued. 



Number of 
packages. 



Santiago, Chile — 

University of Chile 

Observatory 

Springfield, 111. — 

Illinois State Agricultural Society. .. 

Tallahassee, Fla. — 

Public Library ... 

Toronto, Canada — 

Canadian Institute 

Tuscaloosa, Ala. — 

University of Alabama 

Washington, D. C. — 

President of the United States 

United States Patent Office 

Ordnance Bureau 

Light-house Board 

United States Coast Survey. 

Professor Bache 

National Observatory 

Lieutenant Maury 

Secretary of War 

Commissioner of Indian Affairs 

Surgeon General 

Congress Li brary 

Lieutenant J. M. Gilliss 

National Institute 

Waterville, Me. — 

Waterville College 

Worcester, Mass. — 

American Antiquaiian Society 

Individuals not mentioned above. 

Miscellaneous societies, &c. , not mentioned 

Total 



1 

72 
3 
11 
3 
U 
27 
54 

O 

1 
3 

15 

31 

3 



6 

246 

76 



1,933 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 63 

MUSEUM. 

ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 

Extensive as were the additions to the museum in 1858, (exclusive 
of those transferred from the Patent Office,) those of 1859 have ex- 
ceeded them in magnitude and extent. The number of separate do- 
nations amounted to 301, (127 in 1858,) embracing nearly 500 different 
packages. A detailed list of these donations will be found at the end 
of this report, to which I would refer, and I will proceed here to 
mention more in detail such of the collections received as from their 
importance appear to require it. 

As heretofore, most of the large collections were received from 
officers in charge of parties under different departments of the gov- 
ernment. Although the number of these parties has not been as 
great as in some other years, the results attained by them are in no 
way inferior in importance. 

EXPLORATIONS UNDER THE WAR DEPARTMENT. 

1. Construction of wagon road from Walla- Walla, Oregon, to Fort 
Benton, under Lieutenant John Mullan, U. S. A. — This expedition, 
with Dr. Mullan as medical officer, went to California in the springs 
by steamer, and thence to Walla- Walla, the starting point. Supplies 
were sent up the Missouri by the steamers of the American Fur 
Company of St. Louis, one of which made the first trip through to 
Fort Benton. The supplies were accompanied by Mr. John Pear- 
sail, an assistant of Lieutenant Mullan, who made large collections of 
nests, eggs, birds, insects, and fossils. Collections were also made 
by Lieutenant Mullan, between Walla- Walla and his winter camp, 
near Fort Owen, not far from the Bitter Root valley, where he was 
established at the last advices. 

2. Exploration of the Upper Missouri and Yellowstone, under Cap- 
tain J. W. Raynolds, U. S. A. — This expedition, accompanied by Dr. 
Hayden as geologist and naturalist, went up the Missouri in the steam- 
boat of the Fur Company, in June last, and disembarked at Fort 
Pierre. From this starting point they proceeded across to the Yel- 
lowstone, at Fort Sarpy, and thence, after various lateral explora- 
tions, to their winter quarters on Deer creek, at the crossing of the 
Platte, about 100 miles west of Fort Laramie, and in the immediate 
vicinity of the Upper Platte Indian agency, in charge of Major Twiss. 
During the winter, excursions have been made in different directions 
for the purpose of geological explorations, and large collections se- 
cured in all departments of natural history. The collections received 
in Washington from Captain Raynolds consist mainly of the zoolo- 
gical series gathered up to the arrival of his party at Fort Sarpy, and 
embrace specimens of birds, eggs, insects, &c. 



64 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

3. Exploration of the San Juan river and Upper Colorado, under 
Captain J. N. Macomb, U. S. A. — This party, accompanied by Dr. 
Newberry as geologist and naturalist, did not get into the field until 
a late period in the summer, and returned before winter to the east. 
The principal results of the expedition, independently of interesting 
geographical discoveries, are to be found in the department of geology, 
in which Dr. Newberry was enabled to extend his observations made 
while on the Colorado expedition under Lieut. Ives. Among other 
fossils, Dr. Newberry obtained remains of a new genus and species 
of extinct lizard, larger than any formerly found in North America. 

4. Explorations with the army in Utah, under Captain Simpson, 
U. S. A. — This party, under Captain Simpson, accompanied by Mr. 
Charles S. McCarthy as collector, left Fort Leavenworth for Camp 
Floyd, in May, 1858, reaching its destination in September. From 
this time until March, 1859, the party was occupied in making roads 
between Camp Floyd and Fort Bridger, and in marking reservations. 
From May to August, 1859, Captain Simpson explored two wagon 
road routes between Camp Floyd and Genoa, in Carson valley, which 
shorten very much the distance from Salt Lake City to California. 

As much of this region had never been before traversed by scien- 
tific men, the results were very interesting, consisting of several new 
and peculiar forms of fishes, as also of reptiles, insects, &c. Many 
rare birds, with their eggs, were also procured. 

The party left Camp Floyd for Leavenworth in August, by way of 
the Timpanogos, the Uintah mountains and the valley of the Green 
river. 

In addition to large zoological collections made by Mr. McCarthy, 
Mr. Engelmann, the geologist of the expedition, made some important 
geological discoveries, and brought in many fossils and plants. 

UNDER THE STATE DEPARTMENT. 

5. Survey of the northwest boundary : Archibald Campbell, esq., com- 
missioner. — This expedition, with Dr. Kennerlyas the surgeon and nat- 
uralist, and Mr. George Gibbs as geologist, has already been referred 
to in previous reports. These gentlemen have continued to make 
large collections during the year, those received filling twelve boxes. 
The specimens gathered about the Chiloweyuck depot proved parti- 
cularly interesting, from including a new salmon, Anodonta, and other 
species of animals. The collections also embrace skins and skulls of 
the Aploceras montanus, or Rocky mountain goat, the only ones known 
in American collections; also of Lagomys princeps, or little chief hare, 
and skins of Lagopv.s leucurus, the white-tailed ptarmigan, and of the 
black-throated diver. Colymbus arcticus, in adult summer dress. 

UNDER THE NAVY DEPARTMENT. 

6. Exploration of the Parana and its tributaries, under Captain 
T. J. Page, U. S. N. — This survey, in continuation of that prosecuted 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. G5 

by Captain Page several years ago, is accompanied by Mr. Christopher 
Wood as taxidermist, and has already sent home quite a large collec- 
tion of birds, embracing several rare and perhaps new species. 

UNDER THE INTERIOR DEPARTMENT. 

7. Wagon road from El Paso to Fort Yuma, under Colonel Leeclt. — 
This expedition returned to Washington in 1858, but the collections 
did not arrive until early in 1859. These were made by Dr. S. Hayes, 
and consisted chiefly of a large and valuable herbarium, embracing 
several new species of plants. 

8. Wagon road from the South Pass to California, under Colonel F. W. 
Lander. — This party passed so rapidly over the country as to be unable 
to do much in the collecting of specimens of natural history. Mr. 
James A. Snyder, who had charge of this department, among other 
duties, succeeded in obtaining specimens, both in skin and in alcohol, 
of the very rare Lagomys princeps, or "coney'' of the Mormons, 
These were captured in the Wahsatch mountains, to which, according 
to Colonel Lander, they appear to be chiefly confined. 

IN CONNEXION WITH THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

9. Exploration of the vicinity of Fort Tejon and of Cape St. Lucas, 
by Mr. John Xantus. — Among the very important researches in the 
natural history of America, the explorations of Mr. John Xantus de- 
serve particular mention. In previous reports, the collections made 
by Mr. Xantus at Fort Tejon have been referred to. During a resi- 
dence there of about sixteen months, from the summer of 1857 to the 
autumn of 1858, although constantly occupied with official duties, he 
has exhausted the natural history of the vicinity of the fort in the 
most thorough manner. All departments are fully represented in his 
collections, which filled thirty-five boxes ; the birds alone embracing 
nearly 2,000 specimens and 144 species. 

Professor Bache, the Superintendent of the United States Coast Sur- 
vey, having determined to establish a tidal station at Cape St. Lucas, 
Lower California, Mr. Xantus was placed in charge, and reached the 
Cape in April last. He has since that time made, in the intervals of 
his official duties, and forwarded to Washington, collections which vie 
in thoroughness with those of Fort Tejon, and exceed them in number 
of species, embracing as they do the marine as well as the fresh water 
and land forms. Of 42 species of birds first received from him, 8 are 
new; of crustaceans, there are over 100 species, many of them new; 
while in all other departments the collections have been proportion- 
ately great. 

The results obtained at Cape St. Lucas by Mr. Xantus add another 
to the many benefits to natural history as well as to physical science 
rendered incidentally by the operations of the United States Coirt 
Survey, as shown previously in the important collections of Lieutenant 
Trowbridge, Mr. Wiirdemann, Mr. Cassidv, Mr. Wayne and others. 
5 



66 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

10. Explorations of the Hudson' s Bay Territory, by Mr. Robert Ken- 
nicott. — Mr. Kennicott, under the patronage of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, and by the assistance of the University of Michigan at Ann 
Arbor, the Audubon Club of Chicago, the Chicago Academy of Sci- 
ences, and a number of gentlemen interested in the natural history of 
the Arctic regions, has been during the past year engaged in an ex- 
ploration of the north, which promises results of no ordinary import- 
ance. His labors have been greatly facilitated by the cordial co- 
operation of Sir George Simpson, governor of the territory, and the 
officers of the service, especially of Mr. Barnston, of Michipicoten, 
and Mr. B. R. Ross, of Fort Simpson. Mr. Kennicott left in May for 
Lake Superior, via Toronto and Collingwood. From Fort William, on 
Lake Superior, he was conveyed to Norway House in the Company's 
boats, and thence towards Fort Simpson, on the Mackenzie. At the 
latest advices, of July 29, he had reached Methy or La Loche Portage, 
and, in company with Mr. Ross, it was his expectation to proceed in a 
few days to Fort Simpson, there to winter. He intends in the spring 
to go to Great Slave or Bear Lake to collect eggs, and hopes to re- 
main long enough in the north to spend another spring and summer 
on the Youkon of Russian America, and another on the shores of the 
Arctic ocean, north of Great Bear Lake. 

A small portion only of the collections made by Mr. Kennicott have 
yet reached Washington; those gathered between Norway House and 
Portage La Loche having arrived at Pembina too late to come down 
this year. Among the specimens received, however, is a fine skin of 
the rare Lams Sabini, or the fork-tailed gull, shot on Lake Winnipeg. 

Mr. Kennicott was accompanied to Lake Winnipeg by Mr. Charles 
A. Hubbard, of Milwaukie, who returned home in the fall, by way of 
Fort Garry and Pembina, from whom the Institution received a val- 
uable collection of eggs, and through him, from Mr. Donald Gunn, a 
number of birds and of specimens in alcohol. 

11. Explorations on the Saskatchewan, by Captain BlaMston, B. A. — 
The Institution has also received some interesting collections made on 
the Saskatchewan, by Captain Thomas Blakiston, R. A., through the 
Royal Artillery Institution at Woolwich, London. These consist of 
eggs and skins of birds, several of the former of which are rare and 
new to our museum. 

Dr. Rae, the celebrated Arctic traveller, presented to the Institution 
specimens of Spermophilvs parryi from Repulse bay, latitude 5G° 30 ; 
north, thus supplying an important addition to the collection of North 
American mammals. 

12. Various other points on the west coast. — Other collections of in- 
terest consist of nests, eggs, and skins of birds, and of other animals 
from Fort Umpqua, sent by Dr. Vollum; of skeletons of the sea otter, 
by Mr. R. W. Dunbar; of specimens in alcohol, by Mr. Alexander Tay- 
lor; and of eggs, by Dr. C. A. Canfield. 

13. Explorations of Fort Crook, by John Eeilner, esq. — Mr. Feilner 
during the past year has made large collections of birds and mam- 
mals at Fort Crook, rivalling those of Mr. Xantus at Fort Tejon. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. G7 

Among them are good specimens of such rare birds as Picus loilliam- 
soni, albolarvatus, thyroideus, &c. 

14. Exploration in the Rocky mountain region. — In addition to the 
government collections of Captain Simpson and Captain Macomb, Dr. 
Anderson, U. S. A., has continued to send a number of rare birds from 
Cantonment Burgwin. Dr. Irwin, U. S. A., at Fort Buchanan, has also 
made large collections for the Institution, none of which, however, 
have yet been received except one box of birds. Dr. George Suckley, 
U. S. A., while accompanying a detachment of troops from Leaven- 
worth to Camp Floyd, made some interesting collections, including the 
eggs of the Rocky mountain plover. Several rare animals have also 
been received from Colonel Vaughan, Indian agent for the* Blackfeet, 
near Fort Benton 

Dr. Brewer, U. S. A., presented to the collection, through Captain J. 
H. Simpson, some rare reptiles and shells from southern Utah. 

15. -Explorations in and near Florida. — Dr. H. Bryant and Mr. Wil- 
liam Cooper spent the winter in the Bahamas chiefly in and about 
Nassau, and made rich collections of animals, series of which were pre- 
sented by them to the Institution. 

Dr. J. G. Cooper visited Key West in March, and thence proceeded 1 
to Cape Florida, where he spent two months, and another month or* 
Indian River and the St. John's. In addition to extensive zoological 
collections, Dr. Cooper paid particular attention to the trees of Florida, 
and succeeded in obtaining several West Indian and tropical species 
not previously known to occur in the United States. 

A large number of marine animals in alcohol, and of birds and their 
eggs, were collected at the Tortugas for the Institution by Captain. 
Woodbury, U. S. A., and by Dr. Whitehurst. 

Dr. Bean, of Micanopy, Florida, has also furnished a collection of 
the eggs, reptiles, and fishes of the State. Among the first are the 
only eggs of the glossy ibis,- Ibis ordii, yet detected within our limits. 

In connexion with Florida explorations, with which he was so closely 
associated, it is my painful duty to mention the death, during the past 
year, of Mr. Gustavus Wurdemann, a tidal observer of the United 
States Coast Survey, and for many years an active correspondent of 
the Smithsonian Institution. Occupied with the important scientific 
duties incident to his place in the Coast Survey, Mr. Wurdemann yet 
found time for attention to natural history; and at his different stations, 
of St, Joseph's islands, Texas; Calcasieu,* Louisiana; Fort Morgan, 
Alabama; and Key West, Tortugas, Indian Key, Key Biscayne, Char- 
lotte Harbor, &c, Florida, made collections which have proved of the 
greatest service in supplying information concerning the zoology of 
the Gulf region. Independently of the many new and little known 
Crustacea, shells, and other marine animals collected by Mr. Wurde- 
mann, he succeeded in adding several species of birds to the fauna 
of the United States; among others, Larus cucullatus, Certhiola fla- 
veola, Quisoalus baritus, Gorvus Amerieanus car. /loridanus, Ardea 
Wurdemanni, &c. 

16. Miscellaneous localities. — A collection of eggs and birds of Il- 
linois was received from Mr. Tolman; of insects and reptiles of 



68 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

Kansas, from Mr. H. Brandt; and of eggs, reptiles, and shells, from 
St. Charles's College, Louisiana. Mr. Theodore Gill, during a vist 
to Newfoundland, obtained a collection of fishes and invertebrates for 
the Institution. Mr. Willis, of Halifax, has also furnished valuable 
collections of eggs and shells. For a statement of many other im- 
portant additions to the Smithsonian Museum from private sources, I 
beg leave to refer to the list hereunto appended. 

17. Other 2>arts of the world. — A series of skins of the tropic-birds, 
and of eggs of birds breeding on the Bermudas, has proved of 
much interest for comparison with North American. These were 
presented by Chief Justice Darrell: a collection of fishes and reptiles 
from Nicaragua, presented by Dr. H. C. Caldwell, United States 
navy, embraced several species new to the Smithsonian collection. 
Mr. McLeannan, of the Panama Railroad Co., has presented to the 
Institution many species of birds taken on the Isthmus not before 
in the museum. Captain Dow, of the same company, has also sup- 
plied a pair of living curassows. 

18. Miscellaneous collections. — One of the most important additions 
to the museum during the year has been made by Mr. William Stimp- 
son, embracing, among other specimens, the whole of his collection 
of shells of the Atlantic coast, including the types of his "shells of 
New England," and the "marine invertebrates of Grand Marian." 
A large portion of the collection consists of specimens in alcohol, of 
many species, the animals of which are almost entirely unknown 
elsewhere. 

With this collection and that of the exploring expedition, and 
other parties from the west coast, the Smithsonian Institution has 
within its walls the best single collection extant of the marine shells 
of North America. 

Dr. Jan has presented, on the part of the Museo Civico, Milan, of 
which he is director, a large number of species of snakes, for the most 
part types of his great work on serpents. 

From the zoological museum of the University of Copenhagen, 
Dr. J. J. Steenstrup, director, the Institution has received types of 
various species of radiates, Crustacea, <fcc, described by C. F. 
Liltken, Dr. H. Kroyer and others. 

WORK DONE IN CONNEXION WITH THE COLLECTIONS. 

Much progress has been made during the year in putting the speci- 
mens already exhibited in the museum in order, in adding additional 
ones, and in properly labelling and arranging the whole. So much, 
however, is required to be done, that it is not to be wondered at if 
the amount actually accomplished is not at first fully realized by the 
visitor. The taxidermist has completed the change of stands of all 
the mammals and of the North American birds on the south side of 
the hall, and is now engaged on the exotic birds. He has also 
mounted several hundred birds, chiefly from fresh specimens, for 
the purpose of exhibiting deficient species of more special interest. 

A considerable number of large quadrupeds have also been 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



69 



mounted and put in place — such as two grizzly bears, a cinnamon 
bear, an antelope, a pair of mule deer, several wolves, &c. 

The labor of cataloguing, entering, and arranging the collections 
has also been diligently continued during the year, as shown by the 
accompanying table. Much assistance in this has been derived from 
the voluntary services of Mr. Robert Kennicott, Mr. E. Coues, Mr. 
Prentice, Mr. A. J. Falls, and others. 

Table exhibiting the entries in the record boohs of the Smithsonian Museum 
in 1859, in continuation of previous years. 





185!. 


1852. 


1853. 


1854. 


1855. 


1856. 


1857. 


1858. 


1859. 






114 


198 


351 
4,353 ; 


1,200 
4,425 


2,046 

5,855 

106 

155 

3,060 


3,200 

8,756 

239 

613 

3,340 


3,226 
11,390 
4,370 
1,136 
3,413 
1,032 
939 


3,750 






15,913 










4,616 










1,740 




911 


1,074 


1,190 


1,275 


2,050 


3,650 




2,525 
939 


















J 








2,000 








i 








1.100 

















171 


















793 




















Total 


911 


1,188 


1,388 


4,979 


7,075 


11,222 


16,158 


25,506 


37,197 







The actual number of entries during the year amounts to 11,691, 
being the difference between the aggregates of 1858 and 1859, and 
2,343 more than the entries of 1858. As explained in previous re- 
ports, these numbers are far from exhibiting the aggregate of speci- 
mens catalogued, except in the case of mammals, birds, and osteolo- 
gical preparations. 

Each entry generally includes all specimens of the same species re- 
ceived at one time from a given locality, and may embrace hundreds 
of individual objects. Thus in the oological catalogue, one number 
covers 242 eggs of the white ibis, Ibis alba, received from Dr. Bean. 
In a similar manner one entry of shells may embrace hundreds or 
even thousands of specimens. It will not be too high an estimate, 
probably far below it, to assume 5 specimens as the average to each 
number, making 185,985 as the aggregate of objects entered on 
the record books. 

At the present time there remain to be catalogued as many, proba- 
bly, as 10,000 jars of fishes and other alcoholic specimens, independ- 
ently of the entire series of the Crustacea, radiates, &c, collected by the 
North Pacific andBehring Straits Expedition; the fishes of the Wilkes 
Exploring Expedition, in the hands of Professor Agassiz, embracing 
over a thousand species; the skins of the birds of the same expedition; 
and the shells, radiates, &c; many thousand series of fossils, vegeta- 
ble and animal, both vertebrate and invertebrate; all the insects. 



70 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

worms, microscopical preparations, &c. ; a large portion of the eth- 
nological collections, the entire herbarium, &c, amounting, in all 
probability, to 100,000 numbers. 

The series of skins and eggs of North American birds has been 
entirely rearranged during the year to accommodate the large increase 
both of the species and the specimens. This has only been done ap- 
proximately in regard to the mammals, as the additions have been so 
great, since their first arrangement in 1857, as to require a study of 
the entire class in order properly to determine their names. 

The corals have all been arranged and fully labelled by Professor 
J. D. Dana during the year, and now constitute a highly interesting 
and important feature of the public collection. 

During the. year the services of Mr. P. P. Carpenter, the well 
known conchologist. having been secured, he is now at work upon the 
arrangement and labelling the shells, the whole labor of which will 
probably be completed in I860. The co-operation of all the Ameri- 
can conchologists, known as original investigators, has also been ob- 
tained, and the objects of their especial attention submitted to them 
for determination ; the Unionidce to Mr. Lea, assisted by Dr. E. 
Foreman; the Helicidce to Mr. Binne'y; the east-coast shells to Mr. 
Stimpson; the west-coast to Mr. Carpenter himself: while Dr. Gould 
has identified the new species of the exploring expedition, and ren- 
dered aid in the criticism of the collection generally. Much assist- 
ance has also been rendered by Mr. J. G. Anthony, Mr. James Lewis, 
Dr. Newcomb, Mr. Lapham, and other gentlemen, who have made 
conchology a speciality. 

In the proposed method of arrangement of the shells, the types of 
descriptions, and a good representative of each species in different 
ages and varieties, will be cemented to square plates of, glass; the se- 
ries, illustrating geographical distribution, being kept in trays. 

A specimen of each species of North American shell will be ex- 
hibited on the glass plates in table cases, lined on the bottom with 
black paper; but of exotic shells there will only be table surface 
enough for a type of each genus. The other portions of the series 
will be kept in drawers below the tables. It is also proposed, for the 
more ready appreciation of points connected with geographical dis- 
tribution, to keep in separate series the shells of northern China, 
Japan, and the North Pacific; the boreal shells of the west coast as 
far south as San Diego; the marine shells from San Diego to Panama; 
the marine shells of the west coast of South America; the marine shells of 
the Atlantic coast to Fernandina, Florida; the marine shells of Florida, 
the West Indies, and the Gulf of Mexico; and the different American 
land and fresh water species. The shells of the rest of the world, with 
a few exceptions, will probably be arranged in one systematic series. 

As stated in the last report, a large portion of the collections in 
charge of the Smithsonian Institution are in the hands of various 
eminent naturalists for determination. Professor Agassiz and Mr. J. 
C. Brevoort have different portions of the series of fishes; Mr. Bar- 
nard, certain Echini; Professor Agassiz, the turtles; Mr. Cassin the 
South American birds; Mr. Lyman, the Ophwridce; Mr. Putnam, the 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 71 

Etheostomoids; Drs. Torrey and Gray, the exploring expedition plants, 
<fcc. None of the collections, stated last year to be out of the build- 
ing, have yet been returned. 

Much progress has been made upon the descriptive works on North 
American Diplera, by Dr. Loewand Baron Osten Sacken; on Neuroptera, 
by Dr. Hagen; on Hymenoptera, by Mr. De Saussure; on Coleoptera, by 
Dr. Leconte; on Hemiptera, by Mr. Uhler: and on Lepidoptera, by Dr. 
Morris, based, to a greater or less extent, on specimens supplied by the 
Smithsonian Institution. It is hoped that nearly all these works will be 
submitted to the Institution during 1860; and their publication can- 
not fail to give an impetus to the study of entomology, so important 
in its application to the interests of agriculture. In this connexion it 
may be proper to state that a circular has been drawn up by Mr. 
Uhler, and published by the Institution, embodying numerous queries, 
having for their object the eliciting such information respecting 
the habits and history of the grasshopper tribes of North America as 
may serve as a basis of operations in restraining their ravages. 

A circular intended to secure contributions of shells from different 
localities in North America, and a new edition of the circular in ref- 
erence to North American eggs, have also been prepared for distribu- 
tion. 

PRESENT CONDITION OF THE COLLECTIONS. 

In the last report I presented a list of all the great collections 
constituting the bulk of the museum of the Smithsonian Institution, 
and the additions since then are enumerated in the following pages.* 

'-- For convenience of reference, it may be well to continue the enumeration here from 
page 55 of the report for 1858 : 

50. Collections made in Kansas, Nebraska, and Utah, by Captain J. H. Simpson, U. S. A. 

51. Collections made on the South Pass wagon-road route, under F. W. Lander, esq. 

52. Collections made on the El Paso and Fort Yuma wagon-road route, by J. B. Leech, esq. 

53. Collections made on the wagon-road route from Walla-Walla to Fort Benton, by 
Lieutenant John Muilan, U. S. A. 

54. Collections made during an exploration of the Upper Missouri and Yellowstone, by 
•Captain J. W. Raynolds, U. S. A. 

55 Collections made during the exploration of the San Juan and Upper Colorado, by 
Captain J. N. Macomb, U. S. A. 

56. Collection made in an exploration of Cape St. Luc is, Lower California, by John 
Xantus, esq. 

57. Collections made at Fort Crook, by John Feilner. esq. 

58. Collections made in the Arctic regions, by Robert Kennicott, esq. 

59. Collections made in Illinois, by J. W. Tolman, esq. 

60. Collections made in Central Florida, by Dr. J. B. Bean. 

61. Collections made in-Kansas, Nebraska, and Utah, by Dr. Suckley, U. S. A. 

62. Collections made in the Bahamas, by Mr. William Cooper. 

63. Collections made in the Bahamas, by Dr. H. Bryant. 

64. Collections made in South Florida, by Dr. J. G. Cooper. 

65. Collections made in the Tortugas, by Captain H. Gr. Wright, U. S. A. 

66. Collections made in the Tortugas, by Captain D. P. Woodbury, U. S. A. 

67. Collections made in the Tortugas, by Dr. Whitehurst. 

68. Collections made in Louisiana, by the professors and students of St. Charles College 

69. Collections made on the Isthmus of Panama, by James McLeannan, esq. 

70. Collections made in the West Indies and in Newfoundland, by Theodore Gill. 

71. Collections from the Saskatchawan, by Captain John Blakiston, R. A. 

72. Collections inade by Commodore Perry on the Japan expedition. 



72 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

The more prominent results of additions to the museum during the 
current year are to be seen in the approach to completion of the series 
of North American mammals and birds by the reception of such rare 
species as Lagomys princeps, Aploceros montanus, &c. Specimens of 
the musk ox, barren ground bear, and reindeer, with other species, 
collected by Mr. B. R. Ross for the Institution, were detained at Pem- 
bina with Mr. Kennieott's collections, having reached that point too 
late in the season to come through to St. Paul. 

Among the species of birds added in 1859 may be mentioned Phaeton 
JJavirostris, Puffinus obscurus, Xema sabini, Rosthramus sociabilis, Vireo 
altiloquus, Sula personata, Tetrao richardsonii, Lagopus leucurus, and 
adult Colymbus arcticus and Podiceps arcticus, in summer dress, with 
the numerous novelties from Cape St. Lucas sent by Mr. Xantus. 

The series of South American birds has been largely increased in 
number of species. Many very rare North American eggs have been 
added to the collection. The other specimens received, with the 
exception of Mr. Stimpson's Atlantic coast shells, have served to fill 
up slight gaps in species or localities, rather than to bring any to a 
condition of completeness. 

LIST OP DONATIONS TO THE MUSEUM DURING 1859. 

Abbott, William. — Skins of birds from Florida. 

Adams, Alvin. — Bark of giant tree of California (Sequoia gigantea.) 

Adams, Alvin, William M. Patterson, Dr. Nichols, Dr. Emmerson, Dr. 
Emmerton, Dr. ThorndyJce, Dr. Shrady, Dr. Robinson, ami Dr. 
Hells. — Stalactite from the "Gothic Chapel' 7 of the Mammoth 
Cave. 

Aihurst, J. — Skins of birds from Central America, eggs of European 
and American birds, bats in alcohol from the West Indies. 

Amherst College. — Eggs of Massachusetts birds. 

Anderson, Dr. W. W., United States army. — Skins of birds and mam- 
mals from Rocky mountains. 

Andrews, Professor E. B. — Fishes and reptiles in alcohol, Ohio. 

Arnold, Benjamin. — Indian relics from Rhode Island. 

Ashmcad, Samuel. — Set of marine algae of United States coast. 

Ashton, T. B. — Box of birds' eggs from New York. 

Audubon Naturalists Club of Chicago. — Mounted specimen of Grus 
americana, or whooping crane. 

Ay res, Dr. — Birds' eggs of California. 

Baird,S. F. — Skin of Arctomys monax, New York. 

Baird, William M. — Eggs of birds of New Jersey. 

Baker, E. B. — Alcoholic collections, skins of birds, and egg of 
Pandion ? Charlotte Harbor, Florida. 

Barnston, George. — Skins of fishes, birds' eggs, &c, specimens in al- 
cohol, from Lake Superior. 

Beadle, Delos W. — Fifteen bottles alcoholic collections, Canada. 

Bean, Jr. J. B. — Eggs of birds; reptiles, fishes, &c, from Florida. 

Bedford, Alexander. — Fossils, Michigan. 

Bellman, C. — Reptiles, fishes, &c, from Mississippi. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 73 

Benners, Henry. — Specimens in alcohol from Tortugas. 

Bertlioud. Dr. E. L. — Fossils from Kansas and Isthmus of Panama. 

Blake, TV. P. — Minerals, and eggs of birds from Georgia. 

Blanc, Rev. A. — Es;gs of birds of Louisiana and other zoological col- 

lections. 
Bloomfeld, Captain R. N. — Box of "coca" leaves. 
Bossard, P. — Box of shells from Ohio. 

Boston Society of Natural History. — Series of plants collected in Cali- 
fornia, by E. Samuels. 
Brackett, George E. — Skin of star-nosed mole. 
Brandt, H. — Box of insects, reptiles, and mammals, Kansas. 
Braver, Dr. T. J/.— Eggs of fifty-seven species of European birds. 
Brewster, Hiss L. — Nests, eggs of birds from Massachusetts. 
Brouni, Dr. George C. — Skins of Pityopliis mclanoleucus, New Jersey; 

eggs of birds. 
Brugger, Samuel. — Nests and eggs of birds, and mammals, Centre 

county, Pennsylvania. 
Bryant, Dr. H. — Fishes, skins of birds, and eggs from the Bahamas. 
Caldwell, Dr. H. C, United States navy. — Birds and alcoholic collec- 
tions from Nicaragua. 
Campbell, A. — Nine boxes natural history collections from northwest 
boundary survey, near Puget's Sound, collected by Dr. Kennerly, 
and one collected by George Gibbs. 
Canfield, Dr. C. A. — Collection of eggs of Californian birds. 
Carleton, Major J. H, United States army. — Shells from the Colorado 

desert. 
Carter, B. F. — Shells from Texas. 
Catley, H. — Lepidopterous insects from Oregon. 
Churchill, R. C. — Eggs and birds from Maryland. 
Clark, J. H. — Coal from Rabbit-ear Creek, Texas. 
Clark, William. — Centipede; Van Buren, Arkansas. 
Clark, TV. P. — Box of eggs and can of fishes from Ohio. 
Cope, E. D. — Type specimens of Desmognathus ochrophea, Pennsylva- 
nia. 
Copenhagen Zoological Museum. — Type specimens of marine inverte- 
brates of North Seas and West Indies. 
Cooper, TV. — Fifty-nine species of shells of Bahamas, &c, collection 
of Bahama fishes; shells and echinoderms of the Atlantic coast 
of the United States. 
Cooper, Dr. J. G. — Specimens of woods, reptiles in alcohol, and eggs 

of Pipiry flycatcher from Florida. 
Corey, 0. TV. — Box of fossil crinoids from Indiana. 
Craig, Dr., United States army. — Skin of black wolf of Washington 

Territory. 
Curley, Professor. — Gordius or hair worm in alcohol. 
Danker, Henry A. — Nests and skins of birds from New York. 
Davis, William A. — Fossils; Illinois. 
Darrell, Chief Justice. — Skins and eggs of Bermuda birds; reptiles in 

alcohol. 
Dawson, Professor J. TV. — Fossil Pupa veiusta from Nova Scotia. 



74 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

Day, Mrs. Thomas W. — Collection of eggs from California.. 

Diggs, Captain. — Skin of otter, Washington Territory. 

Dorsey, William. — Minerals from Chile. 

Dow, Captain J. 31. — Alcoholic specimens, Nicaragua; and silver ore 
from San Salvador; two living Curassows, Central America. 

Drexler, C. — Mounted birds and fishes. 

Dunbar. R. TV. — Skeleton of sea otter; specimens of woods and In- 
dian curiosities, coast of Oregon. 

Dunham, Ed. — Mounted specimens of curlew and grayback snipe. 

Duval, Alfred. — Seeds, silk cotton, minerals, &c. ; Payta, Peru. 

Eastman, S. C. — Eggs of birds from Labrador. 

Edwards, W. A. — Eggs of frigate pelican, echini and Crustacea, Cen- 
tral America. 

Edwards, Amory. — Brazilian ' ' coal. 

Falls, A. J. — Fresh birds, Washington. 

Fisher, Dr. G. J. — Eggs of hawks from New York. 

Flint, C. L. — Nest of golden crowned thrush. 

Force, Colonel P. — Hornets' nest; Washington. 

Gantt, Dr. W. H. — Nests and eggs of birds from Texas. 

Gardiner, Copt. J. W., United States army. — Skin and skeleton of 
Fisher (Mustela pennantii ;) Indian nets, Fort Crook, California. 

Gary, Jacob S. — Fossil wood, Ohio. 

Gerhardt, A. — Skins and eggs of birds from Georgia, with alcoholic 
specimens. 

Gibbs, George. — Seeds of Coniferae; Puget's Sound. 

Gibbes, Professor L. R. — Box of fresh shrips. 

Gill, Tlieo. — Birds, reptiles, fishes, &c, of Trinidad and Newfound- 
land. 

Gilliss, Lieutenant J. 31., United States navy. — Eye of Loligo, from a 
grave at Areca, Peru; Etheostoma from Washington. 

Gilpin, Dr. — Mammals and reptiles in alcohol from Nova Scotia. 

Glover, T. — Living sandhill crane (Grus canadensis) with zoological 
collections in alcohol, Florida. 

Godfrey, Mrs. A. D. — Skin of snow goose from Puget's Sound. 

Gordon, Dr. FT. JS T . — Skin of young cinnamon bear {Ursus America- 
nus,) Illinois. 

Goss, B. F. — Eggs of birds and skins of mammals from Kansas. 

Grayson, A. J. — Two boxes of skins and eggs of birds, and bottle of 
reptiles from California. 

Chinn, Donald. — Skins of birds and mammals from North Red River. 

Hall, Dr. J. — Living Anolis carolinensis, Alabama. 

Hampton, W. C. — Seeds of Australian plants. 

Harvey, Prof. W. H — Collection of Australian marine algae. 

Hayden, Dr. F. V. — (See Captain Raynolds.) 

Hayes, Dr. S. — Mezquite gum and alcoholic collections; dried plants 
Western Texas, New Mexico, and California; skins of birds; 
Scalops latimanus in alcohol, &c, Fort Belknap, Texas. 

Hayes, Dr. S. — (See Colonel Leech.) 

Hoy, Dr. P. R. — Skins of rare birds of Wisconsin. 

Raymond, Dr. R. —Nests aud eggs of birds of Indiana. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. (0 

Hepburn, J. — Skins and eggs of California birds. 

ffine, D. — Cannel coal, Ohio. 

Hinman, W. 31. — Package of plants from Laramie Peak. 

Holden, W. — Thirty-six species of Univalve shells from Ohio. 

Hoopes, B. A. — Reptiles and mammals in alcohol, Lake Superior. 

Hopkins, Prof. Wm. — Birds' eggs, New York. 

Hopkins, Arch. — Birds' eggs, Massachusetts. 

Hubbard. Chas. A. — Skins and eggs of birds from the Red River of 

the North. 
Hunter, Dr, C. L. — Arvicola pinetorum from North Carolina. 
Interior Department. — fSee Colonel Leech.) 
Irwin, Dr., U. S. A. — Box of birds from New Mexico. 
Jan, Dr. C. — Type series of exotic serpents from the Museo Civico, 

Milan. 
Jardine, Sir W. — Skin of Plectrophanes lapponica from Arctic America. 
Jenkins, J. H. — Shells of Washington Territory. 
Johns, Dr., U. S. A. — Fragments of Mastodon remains from Scott's 

■ Bluffs. 
Kellogg, F. — Tertiary shells from Texas. 
Kennedy, J. 31. — Four specimens of birds from New Mexico. 
Kenncrbj, Dr. — Seeds of Thuya gigantea, Washington Territory. 

also A. Campbell. 
Kennicott, R. — Zoological collections made between Lake Superior 

and Lake Winnipeg. 
King, Dr. W. S., JJ. S. A. — Skin of Spermophile and Mexican weasel 

from Texas. 
Holder, W. — Lead ores from Union mines. Austinville. Virginia. 
Krider, John. — Eggs of fish hawk. 
Kulni, Dr. L. de B. — Skull of bears, shells, insects, etc.. Washington 

Territory. 
Latchford, Thomas. — Fossil bones from Laurel Factory. 
Lawrence, Geo. N.-^— Skins of birds from the Atlantic coast. 
Leech, Colonel. — Collections of plants made by Dr. Hayes on the El 

Paso wagon road expedition in Texas, New Mexico, and California. 
Libhart, J. J. — Box of birds' eggs, Pennsylvania. 
Loomis, Miss 31. — Fossil seeds from Burlington, Vermont. 
Luther, Dr. S. 31. — Shells and birds' eggs of Ohio. 
McCarthy. Charles S. — See Captain J. H. Simpson. 
MeCoicn, Captain J. P., JJ. S. A. — Box of Kansas birds. 
McCurdy, Dr. Samuel. — Skins of harlequin duck, Washington Terri- 
tory. 
McCurdy, S. B. — Curiously marked wood. 
Mel lvalue, J. H. — Eggs of birds. 
McKee, Dr. J. Cooper. U. S. A. — Skins of mammals and birds. Fort 

Defiance. 
McLain, William 31. — Birds and eggs from Maryland; fish hook used 

by the natives of the Sandwich Islands. 
McLeannan, James. — Sixty species birds from Isthmus of Panama. 
31c Williams. Dr. — Skins of blue grosbeak and yellow-billed cuckoo. 
MaUet, Prof. J. W. — Fossils from Alabama. 



76 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

Martin, T. S. — Skins of birds of California. 

"Merrill, Lieut., U. S. A. — Box fossils from Green Bay, Wisconsin. 

Moore, Miss J. — Living hawk moth from near Washington. 

Moore, Dr. George F. — Birds' nests and eggs from North Carolina. 

Morris, Rev. Dr. John G. — Box European eggs. 

Midlan, Lt. John, U. S. A. — Three boxes zoological and geological 

collections made by John Pearsall on the Upper Missouri. 
Nichols, Dr. C. H. — Armadillo from Paraguay. 
Nimn, R. J. — Can of Crustacea from Georgia. 
D' Oca, R. Monies. — Mammals; reptiles of Mexico. 
Odell, B. F. — Living rattlesnake from Iowa. 
Packard, A. S. — Reptiles and mammals in alcohol; eggs of birds from 

Maine. 
Page, Captain, T. J., U. S. N. — Sixty species of birds from Paraguay. 
Paine, Charles S. — Box of birds' eggs from Vermont. 
Paine, H. 31. — Eggs of birds from New York. 
Poey, Prof. F. — Lucifuga subterranea, a new blind fish of Cuba. 
Pearsall, John. — See Lieutenant Mullan. 
Pena, Don F. cle. — Box of "coca" leaves. 
Peters, B. — Skin of Cotton rat, (Sigmodon hispidum,) Georgia. 
Peters, T. 31. — Ferns,. ( ' Trichomanes, J from Alabama. 
Piers, Dr., Royal navy. — Skin of Thalassidroma f areata from Barclay 

sound, northwest coast. 
Plummer, Captain J. B., U. 8. A. — Skins of birds, reptiles and fossils 

from Texas. 
Porter, Prof. T. C. — Bottle of fishes, (Rhinichthys ,) Pennsylvania. 
Posted, J. P. — Specimens of Unio spinosus from Georgia. 
Prentiss, D. IF. — Skin of Sorex from near Washington. 
Putnam, F. W. — Nest and eggs of birds, Massachusetts. 
Bae, Dr. — Skins of Spermophilus parryi, Repulse bay, latitude 56° 

30' N. 
Raymond, C. — Birds and other animals, Peru. 
Raynolds, Captain TV. F., U. S. A.— Zoological collections made in 

the Upper Missouri region by Dr. F. V. Hayden. 
Reid, Peter. — Eggs of Hawk. 
Richard, J. H. — Mounted European birds. 
Roanoke Library Association. — Fossil bone from the green sand of 

North Carolina. 
Robinson, E. S. — Nests and eggs from Mississippi. 
St. Louis Academy of Science. — Serpent in alcohol, (Celuta vermis,) 

supposed to have been found in a block of stone. 
Samuels, E. — Mounted microscopical preparations. 
Sdater, P. L. — Mexican and Central American birds. 
Simpson, Captain J. H., U. S. A. — Zoological collections made in 

Utah by Charles S. McCarthy. 
Simpson, Dr., U. S. A— Mounted snow owl, Rhode Island. 
Smith, A. C., 31. D.— Can of fishes from Ohio. 
Smith, J. W. — Boring and other shells from Puget's Sound. 
Sowthwick, Dr. — Skins of Sciurus abertii, Fort Union, New Mexico. 
Sptmce, Mrs. David. — Collection of eggs from California. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 77 

Steele, Judge. — File fish in alcohol from Florida. 

Stimpson, William. — Type series of marine 'invertebrates of Atlantic 

coast. 
Stockton, Natural History Society. — Nests and eggs of California 

birds. 
Buckley, Dr. George. — Harpoon used by Indians in catching whales on 
northwest coast, with other Indian curiosities. Zoological speci- 
mens from Kansas. 
Swift, Dr., U. S. A. — Skin and skull of bighorn and horns of elk 

from Rocky mountains. 
Taylor, A. S. — Box of crustaceans and shells, with other zoological 

collections from California; skull of grizzly bear. 
Tolman, J. W. — Two boxes birds' eggs from Illinois. 
Trash, Dr. — Crustaceans of California. 
Trembley, Dr. J. B. — Shells and eggs from Ohio. 
Tuley, Colonel James. — Fresh skin of elk. 
Tully. Bernard. — Stalactites from Weir's Cave. 
Vagnier, Thomas. — Nests and eggs of birds from Indiana. 
Van Bokkelen, Lieutenant J. J. — Skin of puffin, Washington Territory. 
Vaughan, Colonel A. J. — Foetal beaver and fossil coral; skulls of mam- 
mals and skins of birds from Upper Missouri. 
Vickary, N. — Nests and skins of birds from Massachusetts. 
Vialleton, Rev. F. and Rev. A. Blanc. — Collections of shells, eggs, in- 
sects, and reptiles from Louisiana. 
Folium, Dr. E. — Box of zoological specimens in alcohol, skins of ani- 
mals, and birds' eggs from the coast of Oregon. 
Vortisch, Rev. L. — Aboriginal stone hammer of greenstone, Germany. 
Walsh, Benjamin D. — Skin of bat and nest of humming bird from 

Illinois. 
Walton, Hon. E. P., 31. C. — Spawn of conch from Buzzard bay, 

Massachusetts. 
Warren, Lieutenant J. R., U. S. A. — Box of Indian curiosities, 

(deposited.) 
Waugh, A. Toivnscnd. — Box insects, Maryland. 
Weeks, W. — Bottle of fishes from Connecticut river. 
Welch, George. — Eggs of birds of Massachusetts. 
White, Lieutenant J. W., and officers of the " Jeff. Davis." — Zoological 

collections, chiefly invertebrates, from Puget's Sound. 
Whitehurst, Dr. D. W. — Eggs of birds and specimens in alcohol from 

Tortugas. 
Williams, E. C. — Large plank cut from redwood tree, (Sequoia sem- 

pervirens,) Cape Mendocino, California. 
Willis, J. R. — Nests and eggs of birds from Nova Scotia, 
Wilson, Dr. L. N. — Skins of carrion crow, (Cathartes atratus;) white 

ibis, &c, and dried grasses from Georgia. 
Wolcott, F. 77.— Box of "vegetable eggs." 
Wood, Dr. W. — Birds' eggs from Connecticut. 

Woodbury, Captain I). P., U. S. A. — Fishes and marine invertebrates 
in alcohol; skins and eggs of birds, and dried corals from Tortugas. 



78 REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

Wright, Charles. — Minerals and fossil radiates from Cuba. ■ 

Wiirdemann, G. — Twelve skins of birds, Florida. 

Xantus, John. — Twenty boxes of natural history collections from Fort 
Tejon, California. 

Unknown. — Box of coal; Indian remains from Scioto river; larvae of 
Telephorus? from the surface of snow in Oneida county, New 
York; package auriferous earth from Pike's Peak. 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS 



FOR THE YEAR 1859. 



BRITISH AMERICA. 



Name of observer. 



Station. 



Baker, J. C. 



fe 



Connelly, Henry 

Craigie, Dr. W 

Delany, Edward M. J. 

Gunn, Donald 



Hall, Dr Archibald... 
Hartt, Chas. Fred'k... 

Hensley, Rev. J. M 

Magnetic Observatory. 
Mackenzie, J 

Ross, Bernard R 



Royal Engineers 

Small wood, Dr.Charlcs. 



Stanbridge, Canada East, (P. 0. 

Saxe's Mills, Vt.) 

Rigolet, Labrador 

Hamilton, Canada West 

Colonial Building, St. John's, 

Newfoundland. 
Red River Settlement, Hud- 
son's Bay Territory. 

Montreal, Canada East 

Acadia College, Wolfvilie,Nova 

Scotia. 
King's College, Windsor, Nova 

Scotia. 

Toronto. Canada West 

Moose Factory, Hudson's Bay 

Territory. 
Fort Simpson, Hudson's Bay 

Territory. 

Halifax, Nova Scotia 

St. Martin, Isle Jesus, Can. E. 



o ' 
45 08 



43 15 

47 35 



50 06 



45 30 
45 06 



44 59 



43 39 
51 15 



61 51 



44 39 

45 32 



o ' 
73 00 



79 57 
52 41 

97 00 

73 36 
64 25 

64 07 

79 21 

80 45 

121 25 

63 37 

73 36 



ALABAMA. 



Feet. 



*A signifies Barometer, Thermometer, Psychrometer, and Rain Gage. 
B " Barometer. 
T " Thermometer. 
R " Kain Gage. 
N " Mo instrument. 



170 

853 



57 
95 



200 
108 



8 
118 



B.T. 
B. T. 
B.T.E. 

T. R. 

A. 

A. 

A. 

A. 
B.T. 

T. 

A. 
A. 



Name of observer. 


Station. 


County. 




3 

"3d 
p 

o 


Height. 


o 

a 

a 

CJQ 


Alison, H. L., M. D 

Cobbs, Rev. R. A . 

Foster, William L 

Hurt, Ashley D 


Carlowville .. 
Union Town. 
Montgomery. 


Dallas 

Montgomery. 
Lawrence 

Dallas j 

Mobile 

Montgomery . 

Sumter 

Dallas 

Greene 


O ' 

32 10 
32 30 
32 22 
34 32 
32 25 
32 24 
30 30 


O i 

87 15 
87 31 

86 31 

87 25 

86 51 

87 06 

88 30 


Feet. 

400 

643 

200 

188 


T. R. 

8T. 
N. 
A. 


Jennings, Dr. S. K -] 

Nicholson, Rev. J. J 

Shepherd, Rev. J. Avery. 
Smith, Rev. Stephen U.. 
Troy, Matthew, M.D... 

Waller, Robert B 


Selrna \ 

Orville \ 

Mobile 

Montgomery . 
Livingston... 

Jahaba 

Havana 

Greensboro' . . 


r.p.R. 

i.p.r. 

B.T. 

r. r. 


32 30 
32 19 
32 50 
32 40 


88 16 
87 16 
87 46 
87 34 


180 

500 
350 


T. P. 

T. 

r. ii. 

A. 



80 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

ARKANSAS. 



Name of observer. 



Barlow, Dennis . 

Blackwell, W. H 

Coulter, B. F 

Davies, James T 

Featherston, Geo. W 

Finley, P. F 

Flippin, W. B 

Graham, Paul 

Martin, G.Alex., M. D.. 

Reynolds, J 

Smith, Dr. N. D 

Weast, J. W 

Younger, Arinistead 



Station. 



Arkadelphia . 
Perryville. .. 
Brownsville. . 
Gainesville .. 

Waldron 

Spring Hill .. 
Yellville .... 
Bentonville . 
Jacksonport.. 
Spring Hill .. 
Washington., 
Yellville .... 
Buck Horn.. 



County. 



Clark. .. 

Perry. ... 

Prairie 

Greene 

Scott 

Hempstead .. 

Marion 

Benton 

Jackson 

Hempstead .. 
Hempstead .. 

Marion 

Independence. 



34 08 

35 05 
34 50 



34 53 
33 30 
36 30 
36 23 

35 56 
33 30 

33 44 

36 30 

34 30 



CD 
3 

'So 
a 


-^* 


o 


tsO 


£ 


w 


O ' 


Feet. 


93 00 




93 16 




92 00 




90 00 


500 


94 00 




93 40 




93 00 


1,000 


94 10 


1,790 


91 16 




93 40 




93 41 




93 00 


1,000 


92 00 


650 



CALIFORNIA. 



c Ayres, W. O. , M. D San Francisco. 

*Belcher, W. C Marysville 

Boucher, Wesley K Mokelumne 

Hill. 

Canfield, Colbert A., M.D.j Monterey 

Frombes, Prof. Oliver S..|Santa Clara.. 

Gordon, Robert Auburn 

Gould, Lewis A Santa Clara.. 

-Logan, Thos. M., M. D. Sacramento .. 

Randall, Robert B : Crescent City. 

Slaven, James Honcut 



San Francisco, 

Yuba 

Calaveras 

Monterey 

Santa Clara.. 

Placer. 

Santa Clara.. 
Sacramento .. 
Del Norte. .. 
Yuba 



37 48 


122 27 


130 


39 29 


121 30 


80 


38 18 


120 28 


1,502 


36 36 


121 54 


40 


37 18 


122 00 


1C0 


38 54 


121 12 


1,176 


37 20 


122 00 


9S 


38 35 


121 28 


41 


41 45 


124 11 


12 


39 25 


121 30 





DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 


Smithsonian Institution. 


Washington . 


Washington . 


38 53 


77 01 


60 


A. 


CONNECTICUT. 



Harrison, Benj. F Wallingford.. New Haven.. 

Hunt, Rev. Daniel Pomfret Windham ... 

Johnston, Prof. John — Middletowri.. Middlesex 

Eankin, James ^Saybrook Middlesex .. 

Yeomans, William H — iColumbia [Tolland. 



41 27 


72 50 


133 


41 52 


72 23 


587 


41 32 


72 39 


175 


41 18 


72 20 


10 


41 40 


72 42 





DACOTAH. 



Norvell, Freeman... 



Greenwood 



42 52 



98 24 



1,900 



*The names of these observers were accidentally omitted in the list for 1858. 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

DELAWARE. 



81 











ID 














-z 












<U 














'C 






fl 


Name of observer. 


Station. 


County. 


3 


M 


^ 


a 










O 


.d 


s 








4h 




bC 


l-H 








fc 


£ 


Hei 


I— 1 








' 


O ' 






Mauld, Dr. D. W 


Georgetown.. 










R. 











FLORIDA. 





Warrington.. 


Escambia 


30 


21 


87 16 


9 


A. 


Bailey, James B 


Gainesville .. 


Alachua 


29 


35 


82 2G 


184 


T.R. 


Baldwin, A. S.,M.D 


Jacksonville . 




30 


15 


82 00 


14 


A. 


Bean , Dr. James B 


Mieanopy 




29 


35 


82 31 


78 


A. 




Key West 

Tallahassee .. 




24 
30 


33 
29 


81 28 
84 07 


16 ;B. T.R. 


Gibbon, Lardner 


It. 




LakeCitv ... 


Columbia 


30 


12 


82 37 


174 T.R. 


Mauran,P. B , M. D 


St. Augustine 


St. John's 


29 


48 


81 35 


8 B.T.R. 


Steele, Judfce Aug 


Atsena Otie .. 


Levy 


29 


08 


S3 04 


17 ! B.T.R. 


Whitner, Benj. F 


Tallahassee .. 


Leon 


30 


24 


84 17 


70 T. 



GEORGIA. 



Anderson, Jas., M. D 

Arnold, Mrs. J. T 

Camp, Benj . F 

Doughty, Dr. Wm.H... 

Easter, Prof. John D 

Gibson, R. T 

Grant, W.T., M D 

Pendleton, E. M., M. D. 
Posey, John F., M. D... 

Stanford, Col. John R 

Van Buren, Jarvis 

Wstmoreland.J.G., M.D. 



Thomaston , 
Zebulon. ... 
Covington .. 

Augusta 

Athens 

Savannah . . 
{Thomson . . . 

Sparta 

jSavannah . . 
IClarksville.. 
IClarksville . 
Atlanta 



Upson 

. Pike 

. ,Newton 

Richmond . . 

Olarke 

Chatham 

Columbia 

Hancock 

.Chatham ... 

. : Habersham . 

.Habersham . 

.Fulton 



32 50 

33 07 
33 40 
33 27 
33 58 

32 02 

33 26 

33 17 

32 05 

34 40 
34 35 

33 45 



84 30 
84 26 
84 00 
81 33 
83 35 

81 01 

82 28 

83 09 
81 07 



83 31 

84 31 



750 



763 
152 

«50 

18 



550 
42 



1,632 
1,050 



A. 

T. 
1ST. 
A. 
A. 

r. r. 

B.T.R. 

T.R. 

A. 

N. 

r. p. 

B.T.R. 



ILLINOIS. 



Aldrich, Verry [Tiskilwa Bureau. 

Allison, Jesse jBloomington. ! McLean 

Babcock, Andrew J (Aurora Kane 

Babcock, E (Riley (McHenr 

Bacon, E. E Willow Creek, i Lee. 



Ballou, N. E.,M. D (Sandwich. .. 

Bassett, George R (Woodstock . 

Bowman, Dr. E. H lEdgingtou.. 

Brendel, Fred'k, M.D..| Peoria 

Brookes, Samuel 'Chicago 

Cantril, Joshua E jWaynesville 

Capen, E Batavia 



De Kalb 

McHenry . ..; 
Rock Island..)" 

Peoria 

Cook 

De Witt 

Kane 



Cobleigh, N. E Lebanon St. Clair. 



41 15 

40 30 

41 41 

42 11 
41 45 

41 31 

42 18 

41 25 
40 43 

42 Oft 

40 16 

41 52 
38 37 



89 66 

89 00 
88 17 
88 20 
88 56 | 
88 30 I 

88 30 

90 46 i 

89 30 j 
87 30 
89 07 
8S 20 i 
89 56 



550 



650 

760 

1,040 

575 

686 
460 



636 



N. 
N. 

T. R. 

r. r. 
r. 

r. r. 
r. r. 
r. r. 
r.p.R. 
r. 
r.R. 

B T. 
B. T.R. 



82 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

ILLINOIS— Continued. 



Name of observer. 



Station. 



County. 



I Carthage 



Bell, Mrs. E.M.A.... 
Wallace, Sam'l Jacob. 

Collier, Prof. Geo. H UVheaton. ... 

Eldredge, Rev.William V.| Newton 

Ellsworth, Lewis JNaperville.-. 

Ellsworth, Milton S Naperville ... 

Grant, John Manchester . . 

Haeuser, Emil Galena 

Harris, J. O., M. D jottawa 

James, John, M. D Upper Alton. 

Little, J. Thomas jDixon 

Mead, S. B.,M. D Augusta 

Mead, Dr. Thompson — Batavia 

Newcomb, John B Elgin 



Pekin 

Marengo ... 
Evanston . . 
Ottawa 



Riblet, J.H 

Rogers, 0. P. & J. S... 

Smith, Chas. E 

Smith, Geo. 0.,M.D.. 

Swain, John, M. D 'West Urbana 

Thomas, Mrs. Win. S ...Carbon Cliff., 

Titze, Henry A West Salem., 

Tolman, James W Winnebago 

| D^pot 



Hancock 

DuPage 

Jasper 

Du Page 

Du Page 

Scott 

Jo. Daviess .. 

La Salle 

Madison 

Lee 

Hancock 

Kane . . 

Kane 

Tazewell 

McHenry . . . 

Cook 

La Salle 

Champaign .. 
Rock Island . . 
Edwards 

Winnebago . , 



41 49 



41 4(1 
41 4(3 
39 33 



41 20 

39 00 

41 45 

40 12 

41 52 

42 00 
40 36 

42 14 
42 10 
40 57 

40 09 

41 32 
38 30 

42 17 



S8 06 



88 11 
88 11 
90 34 



88 47 

89 36 
89 31 
91 45 
88 20 

88 15 

89 45 
88 38 
87 30 

87 55 

88 17 

90 29 

88 90 

89 11 



INDIANA. 



Anderson, H. H 

Austin, W. W. 

Bartlett, Isaac 

Bullock, J. T 

Chappellsmith, John 

Haines, John 

Larabee, Win. H 

Martin, Dr. Alex. 

Menifield, Geo. C 

Moore, Joseph 

Smith, Hamilton, jr 

Sutton, George, M. D . 

Turner, A. P — 

Yagnier, Prof. Thos. 

Webb, Miss G 



LRockville 

Richmond 

JLogansport .. 
Shelby ville .. 
NewHarmony 

Richmond 

Green Castle- 
New Albany . 
Mishawaka .. 

Richmond 

Cannelton 

Aurora 

Patoka 

Notre Dame . 
South Bend.. 



Parke 

Wayne 

Cass 

Shelby 

Posey 

Wayne 

Putnam 

Floyd 

St. Joseph .. 

Wayne 

Perry 

Dearborn 

Gibson 

St. Joseph .. 
St. Joseph. . 



36 fO 

39 47 

40 45 
39 00 

38 08 

39 52 
39 30 

38 17 

41 37 

39 47 

37 57 



87 00 
84 47 

86 13 

87 00 
87 50 

84 59 
86 47 

85 45 

86 02 
84 47 
86 42 



41 40 
41 45 



87 10 
S6 20 



* Abov»Iow watfr mark at Quincy. 
t Above Lake Michigan. 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

IOWA. 



S3 



Name of observer. 



Station. 



County. 



Deal, Dexter Grove Hill... 

Beenian, Carlisle D Rossville 

Corse, John M Burlington .. 

Doyle, L. H Waterloo 

Finley, H. S Davenport . . . 

Fory, John C Bellevue 

Goss, William K Border Plains 

Horr, Asa, M. D Dubuque 

Lyons 

Fairfield 

Pleasant Plain 
Fort Madison 

Fayette 

Plum Spring. 

Muscatine 

Fairfield . 

Forest ville 



Hudson, A. T.,M.D 

MeBeth, Miss Sue 

McConnel, Townsend 

McCready, Daniel 

MeKenzie, John M 

Odell, Rev. Benj. F 

Parvin, Theodore S. 

Shaffer, J. M.,M. D 

Sheldon, Daniel .- 



Bremer ' 

Allamakee 

Des Moines . . 
Black Hawk . 

!COtt 

Jackson 

Webster 

Dubuque 

Clinton 

Jefferson .... 

Jefferson 

Lee 

Fayette 

Delaware 

Muscatine 

Jefferson 

Delaware 



o ' 

42 45 

43 10 
40 53 



42 


30 


41 


30 


42 


15 


42 


05 


42 


30 


41 


50 


41 


01 


41 


07 


40 


37 


42 


51 


42 


40 


41 


25 


41 


01 


42 


40 



87 15 
91 20 

91 10 

92 31 
90 38 
92 25 
94 00 
90 52 

90 10 

91 57 
94 54 
91 28 
91 51 

91 21 

92 02 
91 57 
91 50 



W 



Feet, 
T. 

1,400 It. r. 

-486 JT.R.o 
N. 



555 |N. 

'T.R. 

|B.T.R. 

! 666 A. 
401 R. 
N. 
T.R. 



940 
950 



1,000 



T.R. 
T. 
T. 

586 iA. 



940 



KANSAS. 



Berthoud, E. L 

Brown, G. W 

Clarkson, Rev. David 

Collier, D. C 

Drummond, Rev. J. H.. 

Ellis, Dr. Wm. T 

Fish, Lucian 

Goodnow, Isaac T 

Goss, B. F 

McCarty, H. D 

Millar, John H 

Preston, Rev. N. 

Wattles, John O j 

Wattles, Celestia ) 



Leavenworth 

Lawrence 

Fort Riley . . . 
Denver City . 
Celestville. .. 
Lecompton .. 
Burlingame.. 
Manhattan .. 
Neosho Falls. 
Leavenworth 

Wyandot 

Manhattan .. 



Leavenworth 

Douglas 

Riley 

Arapahos 

Lykins 

Douglas 

Shawnee 

Riley 

Woodson 

Leavenworth . 

Wyandot 

Rilev 



Moneka j Lin n 



39 19 

38 58 

39 00 



94 50 

95 12 

96 30 



38 40 

39 03 



39 13 

38 03 

39 20 
39 08 
39 13 

38 30 



95 16 
95 10 



96 45 

95 31 

94 33 

94 31 

96 45 

95 00 



809 

800 

1,300 



R. 

NT.P 

N. 

T. 

N. 

T. 

T.R. 

T. E. 

T.R. 

A. 

T.R. 

N. 

T.R. 



760 
1,000 



1,342 

707 



KENTUCKY 



Beatty.O 

Lunemann, John H... 
Miles, Thos. H.,S. J.. 
Mattison, Andrew 


1 


Danville 

Bardstown 

Paducah 

Paris 

Millersburg.. 


Bovle 

Nelson 

Mt . Cracken . 

Bourbon 

Bourbon 


37 

37 

37 
38 

38 


40 

52 

0~0 
16 
40 


84 

85 

%7 
84 
84 


30 

18 

21 
07 
27 


950 


B.T.R. 

A. 
N. 


Ray, L. G., M. D - 


800 
8#4 


BT R 


Savage, Rev. G.S., M. 
Walker, Mrs. Mary A 


D. 

[ 

,1 


B.T.R. 


Barbage, Joshua C 

Williams, Rev. S. R. 
Young, Mrs. Lawrence 


Hardinsburg . 

Louisville 

Lexington 

Louisville 


Breckenridge. 

Jefferson 

Fayette 

Jefferson 


37 

38 
38 
38 


40 
03 
06 
07 


86 

85 
S4 
85 


15 
30 
18 

24 


500 
452 

570 


N. 
A. 
A. 



* Above low water in the Mississippi, 



84 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

LOUISIANA. 



Name of observer. 


Station. 


County. 


CD 


6 

'5c 
a 


-*i 


o5 

a 

S 








ci 




CJ3 


t-i 








fc 


& 


a 










O ' 


O ' 


Feet. 




Jackson, A. W., M. D... 


Falls River .- 


Point Coupee 


30 20 


91 31 




N. 


Kilpatrick, A. R., M. D. 


Trinity 


Concordia 


31 30 


91 46 


108 


T.R. 


Swasey, Col. C. B 


Independence 


Livingston .. 


30 30 


90 33 


50 


N. 


Taylor, Lewes B 


New Orleans. 


Orleans 


29 58 


90 07 




A. 



MAINE. 



Adams, John W 

Bickford, Calvin 

Brackett, G. Emerson... 
Brown, E. E., and others. 

Buller, E. A 

Dana, W. D 

Gardiner, R H 

Guptill, G. W 

Johnson, Warren 

Lord, W. G. 

Moore, Asa P 

Nichols, Charles L 

Parker, J. D. 

Van Blarcorn, James 

Verrill, G. W., jr 

"West, Silas 

Wilbur, Benj. F 

Willis, Henry 

Wyman, A. H 



Portland 

Warren 

Belfast 

Hartland 

Freedom 

North Perry.. 

Gardiner 

Cornishville . 

Topsham 

Limington 

Lisbon . 

Newcastle 

Bangor 

Steuben 

Vassalboro'.. 

Norway 

Cornish 

Dexter 

Portland 

N'th Belgrade 



Cumberland . 

Lincoln 

Waldo 

Somerset 

Waldo 

Washington . 

Kennebec 

York 

Sagadahoc 

York 

Androscoggin 

Lincoln 

Penobscot 

Washington . 

Kennebec 

Oxford 

York 

Penobscot 

Cumberland . 
Kennebec 



43 


39 


44 


00 


44 


23 


45 


00 


44 


30 


45 


00 


44 


40 


43 


40 


44 


00 


43 


40 


44 


00 


44 


07 


44 


48 


44 


44 


44 


28 


44 


10 


43 


40 


44 


55 


43 


39 


44 


30 



70 00 


180 


70 29 




69 08 





69 30 


200 


70 30 




67 06 


100 


69 46 


90 


70 44 


800 


70 00 


100 


70 45 


500 


70 04 


130 


69 35 


88 


68 47 




67 50 


50 


69 47 




70 35 





70 44 


784 


69 32 


700 


70 15 


87 


70 00 





MAR YL AND. 



Baer, Miss H. M 

Bell, Jacob E 

Goodman, Win. R 

Hanshew, Henry E 

Lowndes, Benj. O 

Mayer, Prof. Alfred M .. 
McWilliams, Dr. Alex'r. 
Stephenson, Rev. Jas... 
Sutton, Rev. A 



Sykesville 

Leitersburg .. 

Annapolis 

Frederick 

Bladensburg . 
Baltimore. .. 
Leonardtown . 

St. Inigoes 

Chestertown . 



Carroll. 

Washington.. 
Anne Arundel 

Frederick 

Prince George. 

Baltimore 

St. Mary's 

St. Mary's 

Kent 



39 23 
39 35 

38 59 

39 24 

38 57 

39 18 
3S 17 

38 10 

39 12 




MASSACHUSETTS. 







Suffolk 


42 20 


71 03 




B.T. 


Alcott, William P ] 
















Williamstown 


Berkshire 


42 43 


73 13 


725 


B.T.R. 


Morley, John H. .. J 















METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

MASSACHUSETTS— Continued. 



35 



Name of observer. 




Bacon, William 

Brewer, Francis A 

Collier, Alfred 

Davis, Rev. Emerson 

Fallon, John 

Felt, Charles W 

Hanna, George B._ 

Parsons, Benj'n W.. 

Harvard Coll. Observatory 

Mack, A. W 

Metcalf, Jno. G., II. D.. 

Mitchell, Hon. Wm 

Rodman, Samuel 

Prentiss, Dr. Henry C... 

Snell, Prof. E. S 

Tin-ell, N. Q, , M. D 

Whitcomb, L. F._ 



Richmond iBerkskire. 

Springfield iHampden . 

South Groton.lMiddlesex 

Westfield Hampden . 

Lawrence Essex 



Bridgewater . 

Cambridge... 

Dan vers 

Mendon. 

Nantucket 

New Bedford. 
Worcester . .. 

Amherst 

Weymouth... 
Florida 



Plymouth . 

Middlesex 

! Essex 



Worcester . 
'Nantucket. 

Bristol 

Worcester . 
Hampshire 
Norfolk. .. 
Berkshire.. 



a 

03 


longitude. 


5?5 


£ 


O ' 


O ' 


42 23 


73 20 


42 06 


72 36 


42 30 




42 06 


72 48 


42 42 


71 11 


42 00 


71 00 


42 23 


71 07 


42 35 


71 03 


42 06 


71 33 


41 17 


70 06 


41 39 


70 56 


42 16 


71 48 


42 22 


72 34 


42 10 


71 00 


42 40 


73 10 



M 



Feet. 
1,190 



300 
180 
133 

150 

80 



T.E. 

N. 

T. 

A. 

A. 

A. 

A. 

B.T. 

T.E. 

A. 

A. 



30 

90 
537 JA. 
267 A. 
150 IB.T.E. 
2.000 JN. 



MICHIGAN 



Abbe, Cleveland 

Allen, James, jr 

Blaker, Dr. G. H, jr. .. 

Bowlsby, Geo. W 

Campbell, Wm. M.,M.D. 

Coffin, Matthew 

Crosby, J. B 

Holmes, J. C 

Pitcher, Dr. Zena ) 

Horton, L. S j 

Streng, L. H 

Webb, MissG 

Whelpley, Miss H. I 

Woodard, C. S 



Lansing 

Port Huron.. 
Marquette. .. 

Monroe 

Battle Creek . 

Otsego 

New Buffalo.. 
Lansing 



Detroit 

Grand Rapids. 

Ypsilanti 

Monroe 

Ypsilanti .... 



Ingham - . 
St. Clair.. 
Marquette 

Monroe 

Calhoun.. 
Allegan . _ 

Berrien 

Ingham . . , 

Wayne. ... 



Kent 

Washtenaw 
Monroe . ... 
Washtenaw. 



42 


44 


42 


58 


46 


32 


41 


56 


42 


20 


42 


28 


41 


45 


42 


44 


42 


24 


43 


00 


41 


45 


41 


56 


n 


15 



80 00 

82 24 
87 41 

83 30 

85 10 
S5 42 

86 46 

84 15 

82 58 

86 00 
86 20 

83 23 
83 47 



850 IN. 
606 T. 
630 JA. 
584 IB.T.R. 
825 JB.T.R. 
662 IN. 
661 JB.T.R. 
750 iB.T.R. 

597 A. 



680 
600 



T.E. 

N. 



590 jT. E. 
751 |A. 



MINNESOTA. 



Clark, Thomas Beaver Bay.. 

Garrison, O. E.. Princeton 

Hibbord, A. A Burlington .. 

Riggs, Eev. S. E IPajutazee 

Smith, A. C j Forest City... 

Thickstun, T. F Chatfield 

Wieland, Henry Beaver Bay .. 



Lake.... 
Benton.. 

Lake 

Brown .. 
Muker .. 
Fillmore 
Lake 



47 12 
45 50 

47 01 
45 00 
45 45 



47 11 



91 19 

93 45 

92 30 

94 00 
96 00 



91 25 



657 !A. 
T. E. 

645 ,T. E. 

IT. E. 

T. E. 

-325 T. E. 

850 |T. P. 



* Above La Crosse. 



86 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

MISSISSIPPI. 



Name of observer. 



Cribbs, J. R 

Johnston, Wm. M 



Station. 



County. 



Westville Simpson - 

M. D. Hernando . . . De Soto . 

Lull, James S - Columbus ... Lowndes 

McCary, Robert Natchez Adams.. 

Moore, Prof. Albert [Grenada ' Yalobusha. . . 

Paulding 



Robinson, Rev. E. S. - 



} Prairie Line 



> 'Jasper 



S3 


d 

■c 

"So 

c 
o 


fe 


£ 


O ' 


O ' 


32 00 


90 00 


34 45 


90 15 


33 30 


88 29 


31 34 


91 25 


33 45 


90 00 


32 20 


89 20 






Feet. 






T. 


-70 


A. 


227 


A. 


2G4 B.T.R 


In. 




A. 



MISSOURI. 



Bailey, S. S |Dundee 

Bowles, S. B., M. D (Greenfield ... 

Byrns, Robert, M. D. ...Kirksville... 

Campbell, John [Carrollton ... 

Christian, John Harrisonville . 

Conkling, Thos. J i Trenton 

Dalton, O. D Greenville ... 

Dodson, B. D. [Toronto 

Englemann, George St. Louis 

Fendler, Augustus St. Louis 

Finley, R. W j Richmond ... 

Force, Nathan P Farmington.. 

Hamaker, Marion F j Warrenton . . . 

Hanan, B. P Luray 



Heaston, D. J. Bethany 

Horner, W. H Hornersviile . 

Huffaker, S. J. Carrollton . . . 

Kiger, W. B Emerson 

Lingow, B. G. jWaynesville . 

Lumpkin, Wm. M j'fuscumbia. _. 

Mallinckroot, Conrad Augustus 

Maxey, W. F j Paris 

Myers, J. H 'Kirksville ... 

Sutherland, Norris Boonville 

Tidswell, Mary Alice Warrenton.. 

Vankirk, W. J Bolivar. ... 

Vogel, Chas 'Rhineland . . 

Weatherford, John M. ..Lancaster 

Weber, Philip Hermann ., 

Wells, Wm. Stockton .. 

Wilson, Joseph A Lexington , 

Wyriok, M. L Cassville .. 



Franklin 

Dade 

Adair 

Carroll 

Cass 

Grundy 

Wayne 

Camden 

St. Louis 

St. Louis 

Ray 

St. Francis... 

Warren 

Clark 

Harrison 

Dunklin 

Carroll 

Marion 

Pulaski . 

Miller 

St. Charles... 

j Monroe 

j Adair 

jCoopcr 

Warren 

Polk 

Montgomery 

.[Schuyler 

. gasconade . . 

.Cedar 

.Lafayette 

.Barry 



38 30 
37 22 



39 30 



40 li 



37 54 

38 37 

38 37 

39 16 

37 48 

38 45 

40 28 
40 15 

36 03 

39 30 

40 00 

37 4 5 

38 30 

38 30 

39 30 

40 38 
3S 55 
3S 37 

37 29 

38 42 
40 30 

35 40 

39 36 
39 15 

36 41 



91 10 
93 41 



93 31 



97 00 



536 
1,800 



92 30 
90 16 

90 16 
94 30 

91 25 
91 11 

91 57 
94 00 

90 00 

93 31 

92 00 
92 13 

91 59 

90 46 

92 00 
92 50 
92 30 

91 16 

92 45 

91 41 

92 45 
91 27 

93 48 
93 45 
93 57 



481 

470 





N. 




T. 




R. 




N. 




N. 




N. 




V 




N". 


600 


N\ 


780 


T. 


700 


T. 


1,000 


N 




N T . 


825 


T. 




N". 


300 


T. 




N. 


598 


N. 


SOO 


T. 




N. 


3,000 


r. 



* Above low water mark at Memphis 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

NEBRASKA. 



87 



Name of observer. 



Bowen, Anna M. J... 

Byers, William N 

Evans, John 

Hamilton, Rev. Win. 

Mason, Edgar E 

Miller, Ch. H 

Rain, John G 

Smith, Charles B 

Twiss, Major Thos. S. 



White, Bela. 



Station. 




Elkhorn City. Douglas . 

Omaha j Douglas. 

Fontanelle ..Dodge .. 

Bellevue [Sarpy . . 

Nebraska City .Otoe 

S. Pass Wagon Road Exped'n 

Omaha [Douglas 

Brownville _. [Nemaha 

Deer Creek . J P. O Fort La- 

! ramie. 
Kenosha [Cass 




Feet. 
96 12 I 1,000 
96 10 j 1,300 

96 45 ! 

95 50 ! 

95 44 I 1,050 
108 40 o 

95 57 1,400 

96 00 

105 50 j 5,000 



T. 
T. E. 

T. 

T. R. 
T. R. 
B. T. 
T. R. 
T. 
T. R. 



40 51 95 54 



1,050 N 



NEW HAMPSHIRE. 



Bell, Samuel N 

Brown, Branch . 

Chase, Arthur 

Hall, Joseph H 

Hoyt, Peter L., M. D, 

Odell, Fletcher 

Smith, Rufus 

Wiggin, Andrew .... 



Manchester . . 

Stratford 

Claremont 

Top of Mount 

Washingt' n 

Went worth .. 

Shelburne 

ST. Littleton . 
Stratham 



Hillsborough. 

Coos 

Sullivan 

Coos 

Grafton 

Coos 

Grafton 

Rockineham . 



42 59 
44 OS 

43 22 

44 15 

43 49 

44 23 
44 20 
43 00 



71 28 

71 34 

72 21 

71 16 

72 00 

71 06 

72 13 

73 35 



300 
1,000 

535 
6,285 



700 



B.T.R. 
T. R. 
B.T.R. 
A. 



T. R. 
B. T. 

N. 

ioo In. 



NEW JERSEY. 



Allen, Edwin New Brunsw'k, Middlesex ! 

Parry, William Cinnaminson. Burlington _. 

Thornton, Miss E. E Moorestown .[Burlington 

Watson, G eorge I Woodstown . .Salem 

Whitehead, W. A Newark Essex 

Willis, O. R 'Freehold Monmouth __ 



40 


30 


40 


00 


39 


58 


39 


39 


ID 


45 


to 


15 



75 31 
75 01 

74 13 

75 20 
74 10 
74 21 



90 

83 

104 

30 

35 



NT. 

N. 

B. T. P. 

T. R. 

B.T.R, 

T. 



NEW YORK. 



Arden, Thomas B 

Aubier, John ... 

Bowman, John 

Brown, Rev. John J.. 

Dayton, E. A 

Denning, William H. 

Dewey, Prof. Chester 

Ira C. Clark 

T. T. Filmer 



Garrison's 

Fordharn 

Baldwinsville 

Dansville.... 



Putnam { 41 23 

Westchester.. I 40 54 
Onondaga 

Livingston 



Madrid St. Lawrence. 

Fishkill Land- Dutchess 



Rochester. 



Monroe. 



43 04 
42 38 

44 43 
41 33 



43 OS 




280 B.T.P. 
42 B.T.R. 



516 iB.T. R. 



Six miles ea«t of summit of South fuss. 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

NEW YORK— Continued. 



Name of observer. 



Ellesti >ii, Job 

Frost, Col. E. C 

Grush, James W [ 

Alexander, James M.. j 

Guest, W. E 

Holmes, E. S 

House, John C 

Howell, R 

Ingersoll, J. D 

Ives, William.... 

Julien, Alexis A \ 

Schauber, H. A j 

Kelsey, Kathalo . _ 

Landon, Anna S 

Mackie, Matthew 

Malcom, Wm. S 

Matthews, M. M., M. D. 
Morris, Professor 0. W_. 

Paine, H. M. , M. D 

Potter, C. D., M. D 

Riker, Walter H 

Sartwell, Dr. H. P 

Sias, Professor Solomon. 
Spooner, Dr. Stillman... 
Sylvester, Dr. E. Ware. . 

Titus, Henry Wm 

Tompkins, William 

Van Kleek, Rev. R. D.. 

Wadsworth, A. S. 

White, Aaron 

Yale, Walter D 

Young, Jude M 

Zaepffel, Joseph 

Zimmerman, Godfrey 



Station. 



County. 



Geneva. 
Havana. 



Ontario. 
Schuyler 



Spencertowu. Columbia 

St. Lawrence 

Niagara. 

Saratoga 



Ogdensburg.. 

Wilson 

Waterford 

Nichols 

Ilion.. 

Buffalo 



Schenectady.. 

Great Valley. 

Eden 

Clyde 

Oswego 

Rochester 

New York 

Clinton. 

Adams Centre 

Saratoga 

Penn Yan 

Fort Edward. 
Wampsville.. 

Lyons 

Bellport 

German town. 

Flatbush 

East Henrietta 

Cazenovia 

House ville 

West Day 

West Morisa- 

nia. 
Pine Hill 



Tioga. 

Herkimer. 
Erie 



Schenectady. 

Cattaraugus. 

Erie 

Wayne 

Oswego 

Monroe 

New York.. 

Oneida 

Jefferson 

Saratoga 

Yates. 

Washington. 

Madison 

Wayne 

Suffolk 

Columbia 

Kings 

Monroe 

Madison 

Lewis. 

Saratoga 

Westchester. 

Erie 



42 30 

42 18 

44 43 

43 20 
42 47 

42 00 

43 00 
42 50 

42 49 

42 12 

42 30 

43 10 
43 28 
43 08 
40 43 
43 03 
43 48 
43 06 

42 62 

43 13 
43 04 



40 44 



40 37 
43 06 

42 55 

43 40 
43 20 
40 53 

42 45 



76 31 
73 32 

75 37 

78 56 
73 39 

76 32 

79 51 
78 56 

73 55 

78 45 

79 11 

77 10 

76 30 

77 51 

74 05 

75 18 
75 52 

74 00 
77 11 
73 42 

75 50 



72 54 



74 01 
77 51 

75 46 
75 32 
75 16 
74 01 

79 06 



Fed. 



1,041 

700 

232 

250 

70 



600 
300 



700 
400 
250 
525 
25 
500 
632 
306 
740 

500 



15 
175 

54 

600 

1,260 

1.200 
190 

680 



NORTH CAROLINA. 



Carter, Thomas. ) 

Hamilton, W. H ] 

Kerr, Professor W. C... 

McDowell, Rev. A 

Moore, Geo. F.,M. D .. 
Phillips, Prof. James, D.D 



Raleigh 

Davidson Col- 
lege. 
Murfreesboro' 
Green Plains. 
Chapel Hill 



Westbrook, Samuel W..|Greensboro' 





35 40 


Mecklenburg. 


35 30 


Hertford 


36 30 


Northampton 


36 32 


Orange 


35 54 


Guilford 


37 00 



78 


52 


317 


B0 


54 


850 


77 


01 
45 




77 




79 


17 





80 


01 


840 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

OHIO. 



89 



Name of observer. 



Station. 



County. 



Abell, B. F. 

Ammen, J 

Anthony, Newton 

Atkins, Rev. L. S 

Benner, J. F 

Bennett, Sarah E.. 

Bowen, Wm, F 

Boyd, S. T 

Chase, - 

Clark, Wm. P 

Colbrunn, Edward 

Cotton, D. B., M. D 

Crane, Geo. W 

Davidson, H. M 

Davis, VV. E. 

Dille, Israel 

Gamble, J. W 

Hammitt, John W 

Hampton, W. C 

Harper, Geo. W 

Haywood, Prof John 

Hill, F. G. 

Hillier, Spencer L 

Huntington, Geo. C 

Hyde, Gustavus A 

Ingram, John, M. D 

Johnson, Enoch D 

King, Mrs. Ardelia C 

Luther, S. M 

Mathews, J. McD..D. D. 

McClung, Charles L 

McMillan, S. B. 

Peck, W. R., M.D 

Peters, Adam 

Phillips. R. C. and J. H. 

Raffensperger, E. B 

Rhoades, Dr. John 

Shaw, Joseph 

Shields, Rev. Robert, ) 

Smith, John C j 

Treat, Samuel W 

Tweedy, David H 

Ward, Rev. L. F 

Warder, A. A. 

Williams, Prof. M. G... 

Wilson, Prof. J. H 

Young, Prof. Chas. A., ) 

Childs, E. W f 



Welsh field .. 

Ripley 

Mount Union. 
Madison 

New Lisbon.. 

Toledo 

Sharon ville .. 

Iberia 

Marion . 

Medina 

Cleveland 

Portsmouth.. 

Bethel 

Freedom 

Lancaster 

Newark 

Russell's Sta*n 
College Hill . 
Mt. Victory. . 

Cincinnati 

Westerville .. 
Dallasburg . . 

Breck ville 

Kelley's Isl'nd 

Cleveland 

Savannah 



Madison 

Hiram 



Hillsborough 

Troy 

East Fairfield 
Bowl'g Green 

Zanesville 

Cincinnati 

Toledo 

Hocking Port. 
Bellefontaiue. 

Bellecentre .. 

Windham Portage 

Mt. Pleasant.! Jefferson ... 

Avon _. Lorain 

Cincinnati j Hamilton . . 

Urbana Champaign . 

College Hill . . ; Hamilton . . . 

Hudson (Summit 



J Geauga 

, Brown 

Stark 

| Lake 

Columbiana. 

Lucas . . 

Hamilton . . 

Morrow 

Marion 

Medina . 

Cuyahoga . . 

Scioto 

Clermont 

Portage 

Fairfield . . . 

Licking 

[Highland... 

; Hamilton 

Hardin 

Hamilton 

Franklin 

Warren 

Cuyahoga . . 

I Erie 

jCuyahoga .. 

Ashland 

Monroe 

Lake . 

Portage 

Highland 

Miami 

Columbiana. 

Wood 

Muskingum. 

Hamilton 

Lucas 

Athens 

Logan 

Logan 



41 23 

38 37 

40 54 

41 49 

40 45 

41 49 

39 19 

40 46 

40 30 

41 07 
41 30 

38 45 

39 00 
41 13 

39 41 

40 07 
39 13 

39 19 

40 35 

39 06 

40 04 
39 30 

41 15 



41 

11 
41 
39 



41 52 
41 20 

39 13 

40 03 

40 47 

41 15 



39 06 

40 30 

39 00 

40 21 

40 30 

41 10 

40 20 

41 27 

39 08 

40 06 
39 19 

41 15 



81 12 
S3 31 

81 31 

80 10 

80 45 

83 34 

84 30 

82 52 

83 21 

81 47 
81 40 

52 50 

84 00 

81 OS 

82 37 

82 21 

83 36 

84 25 

83 36 

84 27 

83 00 

84 31 

81 30 

82 42 

81 40 

82 31 
81 00 
81 00 
81 03 

83 30 

84 06 
80 44 

53 40 



84 27 
83 20 
81 30 
83 20 

83 45 

81 05 

83 34 

82 04 

84 35 

83 43 

84 26 

81 24 



Feel. 

1,205 



961 



800 
1,160 



1,255 

665 
529 
555 

1. 100 

1,020 
825 

1,000 
800 

1,500 
500 

800 
800 
5S7 
643 

1,098 
540 
620 

1.290 

1,134 
*404 

1.152 
700 



540 



1,040 

1,170 

939 

800 

800 

1,015 

800 

1,137 



T.R. 

B.T. R. 

T. 

T. 

B.T. R. 

T. 

N. 

T.R. 

N. 

A. 

T. 

B.T. R. 

T.R. 

B.T. R. 

B.T. R. 

T. 

N. 

N. 

N. 

A. 

A. 

N. 

A. 

B.T. R. 

B.T. R. 

A. 

T. R. 

T.R. 

T.R. 

A. 

B.T. R. 

A. 

B.T. R. 

T. 

B.T. R. 

N. 

N. 

T.R. 

B.T. R. 

r. 

N. 
A. 

T.R. 
B.T. R. 
B.T. R. 

B.T. R. 



OREGON, 



Stebbins, George H. 



Portland i Multnomah . . 



45 24 121 30 



170 iT.R. 



Above Ohio river at Cincinnati. 



90 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

PENNSYLVANIA. 



Name of observer. 



Also;), Samuel 

Baird, John H 

Barrett, James.. 

Boyers, W. R 

Brewster, Wm., M. D — 

Brugger, Samuel 

Burrell, J. Ilgen 

Coffin, Selden J ) 

Houghton, George S ) 
I look, Ihos. E. & Sons .. 

Darlington, Fenelon 

Egbert, John 

Friel, P 

Hance, Ebenezer 

Harvey, J. C. 

Heckerman, Henry 

Heisely, Dr. John 

Heyser, William, jr 

Hickok, W. 

Holier, Dr. Jacob R 

Jacobs, Rev. M. 

J, imes, Prof. Charles S.. 
Kirkpatrick, Prof.J. A._. 

Kohler, Edward. 

Meehan, Thomas 

Moore, Mahlon. 

Mowry, George 

Ralston, Bev. J. Grier.. 

Scott, Sam uel 

Sni" Hey, John II 

Smith, Wm., D. D 

Speer, Alex. M., M.D.. 

Stewart, Thos. H 

Swift, Dr. Paul. 

Tracy, James E 

Travelli, John I 

Wilson, Prof. W. C 



Station. 



Westchester... 
Tarentum. ... 

Linden 

Altoona 

Huntingdon . . 

Fleming 

Bellefonte 



Chester . — 
Alleghany... 
Lycoming — 

Blair 

Huntingdon 

Centre 

Centre. 



Easton 

Cendersville.. 
Parkersville.. 

Berwick 

Shamokin 

Morrisville 

Nazareth.. .. 

Bedford 

Harrisburg . . . 
Chambersburg 

Harrisburg 

Mount Joy 

Gettysburg. . 

Lewisburg 

Philadelphia . 
Whitehall st' n 
German town 
Morrisville.. 

Somerset 

Norristown. . 
Worthington. 

Lima 

O'anonsburg. 

Pittsburg 

Murrvsville 
W. Haverford 
E. Smithfield. 
Sewickleyville 
Carlisle . 



County. 



Northampton 



Adams 

Chester 

Columbia 

Northumber'd 
Bucks 

Northampton. 

Bedford 

Dauphin 

Franklin 

Dauphin 

Lancaster 

Adams 

Union 

Philadelphia . 

Lehigh 

Philadelphia.. 

Bucks ... 

Somerset 

Montgomery . 

Armstrong 

Delaware 

Washington .. 

Alleghany 

Westmorela'd 

Delaware 

Bradford 

Alleghany 

Cumberland . 



o ' 

39 57 

40 38 

41 14 
40 30 
40 35 
40 55 
40 50 

40 43 



39 54 
41 05 
49 15 

40 12 
40 43 
40 01 
40 1C 

39 58 

40 20 
40 08 

39 49 

40 58 

39 57 

40 40 



75 34 
79 46 

77 11 

78 31 
78 03 
77 53 
77 49 

75 16 



Fed. 
550 
950 
514 

1,168 



A. 
T. 

A. 
B.T.R. 



734 B.T.R. 
780 |T.R. 
T. 



320 A. 



40 00 

40 08 

41 50 

39 55 

40 17 
40 32 
40 28 

40 00 

41 58 
40 38 
40 12 



75 37 

76 15 

76 30 

74 48 
78 41 
78 30 

76 15 

77 45 
76 50 

76 30 

77 15 
76 5S 

75 11 
75 26 



218 
583 
700 
30 
530 



618 
320 



624 



79 03 
75 19 

79 31 
75 25 

80 10 
80 02 

79 35 

75 21 

76 37 

80 14 

77 11 



50 

250 



2,195 
153 

1,050 
226 
936 
850 
960 
400 

1,000 



500 



|T. R. 
A. 

T. R. 
B.T.R. 
j B.T.R. 

ir.R. 
'b.t.r. 

A. 

it 

B.T.R. 

,'A. 

A. 

T. 
ATS. 

.In. 
f * 

A. 
T. B. 
T.P.R. 
A. 

B.T.R. 
A. 

JT. R. 
N. 
.B.T.R. 
A. 



RHODE ISLAND. 



Caswell, Prof. A Providence... Providence .. 41 49 71 25 120 A 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

SOUTH CAROLINA. 



91 









6 

S 


6 




a 


Name of observer. 


Station. 


County. 


if) 
O 


-ij 


8 








* 


£ 


hrt 


00 

a 

M 








O ' 


' 


Feet. 




Barton, E. H., M. D 






33 57 


81 07 


233 


A. 


Cornish, Rev. John H — 


Aiken 




33 32 


81 34 


565 


T.R. 


Glennie, Rev. Alex'r 


Georgetown.. 


All Saints 


33 29 


79 17 


20 


A. 


Johnson, Joseph, M. D | 
Dawson, J. L, M.Dj 


Charleston 


Charleston. .. 


32 46 


80 00 


20 


B.T.R. 


Ravenel, Thomas P Black Oak 


Charleston 


33 00 


80 00 


50 


A. 


Superintendent Arsenal Columbia 


Richland 


34 00 


81 07 


295 


A. 


Academy. 













TENNESSEE. 



Barney, Chas. E 

Blake J R 


University PL 
La Grange 

Winchester... 
Clarkesville. . 

Memphis 


Franklin 

Fayette 


35 12 


80 00 


2,000 


T.R. 
B.T.R. 


Dodge. J. W. & Son 

Houghton. S. W 

Stewart, Prof. Wm. M.. 

Tuck, W. J., M. D... | 

Mitchell, R.W.,M.D J 


Cumberland . 

Franklin 

Montgomery . 

Shelby 


36 00 
35 10 
3C 28 

35 08 


85 00 

86 11 

87 13 

90 00 


2,200 

481 
2C2 


r. 

T.R, 
A. 

A. 



TEXAS. 



Allis, MelvinH 

Colman, "William. 

Crockett, Jno. M ... 

Cunningham. J. D 

De Graffenried, W. G., M 

D. 
EeJernett, R., M. D 
D'Spain, Dr. B. L .. 

F.wing, J. M 

Epperson, W. T 

Freese, G 

Friedrieh, Otto 



.Gonzales Gonzales .. 

[Texana ... Jackson 

JDallas Dallas 

Bastrop : Bastrop 

IColumbus 'Colorado _. 



. . Greenville ; Hunt 



I Cass... 
Bowie. 
Comal 



Gaftney, James O 

Gantt.Dr. Wm. H 

Gardiner, Jas -. 

Gibbs, T 

Glasco, J. M 

Kapp, Ernst ... 

Kellog, F 

Moke, Dr. James E 

Palm, Swante 

Eayal, Jas. T 

Rucker, B. H 

S< human, Bruno 

Sias, Prof. Solomon .. 



Tarrant : Hopkins . 

Jefferson 

Boston 

New Braun- 

fels. 
San Patricio . 

Union 

Port La Yaca. 

Huntsville 

Gilmer 

Sisterdale.... 

Wheelock 

Woodboro' .. 

Austin 

Kaufman 

Washington . 

Roundtop 

Bonham 



San Patricio 
J Washington 

Calhoun 

j Walker 

: Upshur 

I Blanco 

i Robertson .. 

Grayson 

Travis 

Kaufman ... 
.Washington 

' Fayette 

Fannin 



29 35 
29 00 
32 45 



29 43 

33 10 
33 30 

32 30 

33 25 

29 41 

27 45 

30 11 

23 38 



32 46 

29 54 

30 50 

33 47 
30 15 

32 30 
30 26 
30 0G 

33 40 



97 30 
96 30 
96 4G 



96 3G 

97 23 
96 41 

94 30 

94 40 

98 15 

98 31 
96 31 

96 37 



94 49 

95 35 

96 30 

96 36 

97 47 
96 00 
96 15 
96 37 
96 13 



N. 

CO N. 

1'. 

NT. 

198 N. 



N. 



65 JST. 
600 N. 
iB.T.R. 



IR. 



540 
25 



T. E. 
N. 

R. 

1,017 T. 
1,000 |A. 

450 R. 

U. 

\. 

,N. 

B.T.R. 

iT.R. 

435 A. 



92 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

TEXAS— Continued. 



Name of observer. 


Station. 


County. 


N. latitude. 
W. longitude. 
Height. 


a 

a 
s 

a 


Turner, T. A 

Van Nostrand, J 

Wade, F. S 

West, Dr.N. P 

Yellowby, Prof. C. W — 
Yoakum, F. L 


Springfield .. 

Austin 

Cross Roads.. 

Burkeville 

Webberville . 
Larissa 


Limestone 

Travis 

Williamson .. 

Travis 

Cherokee 


o ' ! o ' 
31 30 96 15 
30 20 i 97 46 

30 29 ! 97 26 

31 00 93 31 

30 10 1 97 31 

31 45 ! 95 20 


Feet. 

4,500 
650 
672 


K. 

T. P. R. 

T.R. 

T. 

B. T. R. 

T. P.R. 



UTAH. 



Phelps, W. W. 



Great Salt! 
Lake City. { 



Salt Lake. 



40 45 



111 26 ' 4,250 



A. 



VERMONT. 



Buckland, David 

Cutting, Hiram A.. 
Fairbanks, Franklin 
Jackman, Prof. A -. 
Paddock, James A.. 

Parker, Joseph 

Pettv, McK 



Brandon Rutland.. 

Lunenburg ..Essex 

St. Johnsbury, Caledonia. 



43 45 

44 28 
44 25 



Norwich 

Craftsbury 

West Rupert. 
Burlington .. 



Winds jr j 43 42 

Orleans [ 44 40 

Bennington..: 43 15 

Chittenden ..' 44 27 



73 00 

71 41 

72 00 
72 21 

72 29 

73 11 
73 10 



T.R. 

1,124 JA. 

640 B.T.R. 
B. 

1,100 T. R. 
750 T. 

367 A. 



VIRGINIA. 



Abell, J. Ralls 

Astrop, Col. R. F 

Eoyers, Wm. R 

Dickinson, George C. 

Ellis, D. H 

Fraser, Jam es 

Hotchkiss, Jed 



Jones, Silas B 

Kendall , James E 

Lockwood, George P.. 

Mackie,Rev. C. B 

Meriwether, Chas. I .. 

Marvin, John W 

Pickett, John 

Purdie, John R.,M. D. 
Reynolds, W.C 



Robey,Chas. H.. 
Ruffin. Julian C. 



jOharlottesvTe 
ICrichton's 
Store. 

[Buffalo 

CobhamDepot 
Wardensville 
New England 
Stribling 

Springs. 
Fork Union.. 
Kanawha C. H 

Wheeling 

Anna 

Richmond 

Winchester . . 
The Plains. .. 

Smithfield 

Kanawha Sa- 
lines. 
Fredericksb'g 
Garysville 



Albemarle . 
Brunswick 



Putnam ... 
Albemarle. 

Hardy 

Wood 

Augusta 



Fluvanna ... 

Kanawha 

Ohio 

Fairfax 

Henrico 

Frederick.. .. 

Fauquier 

Isle of Wight. 
Kanawha 



Spottsylvania 
Prince George 



38 00 

36 40 

38 30 

38 05 

39 30 
39 20 
38 20 

37 40 

38 20 
41 09 
38 56 



39 15 
38 50 

37 02 

38 30 

38 30 
37 21 



78 31 

77 46 

81 57 

78 21 

78 03 
81 00 

79 05 

78 21 

81 30 

80 46 

77 04 



521 
500 



T.R. 
T.R. 



480 (B.T.R. 

450 T. R. 
1,720 B.T.R. 
N. 

1,600 jT. 



|N. 

720 T.R. 



jT. R. 

180 T.R. 



78 10 
77 51 

76 37 
81 30 

77 30 
77 34 



100 



.T.R. 

,|T. R. 
.T. 

T. R. 

T.P. R. 



600 N. 
100 B.T.R. 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 
VIRGINIA— Continued. 



93 



Name of observer. 


Station. 


County. 




W. longitude. 


Height. 


a; 

"S 

o 

a 

to 

S3 




Wellsburg 

Meadow Dale. 

Montross 

Lewisburg 

Lloyd 

Falmouth 

Portsmouth.. 




O ' 


o / 


Feet. 


T. R. 




Highland 

Westmoreland 
Greenbrier 


38 23 
38 07 
37 49 


79 3G 
76 46 

80 28 


1,800 

200 

2,000 


T. R. 


Spence, Edward E 

Stalnaker,J.W.,M. D... 

Upshaw, George W 

Van Doren, Abram 

Webster, Prof. N. B 


T. P.R. 
r. R. 
r. r. 


Stafford 

Norfolk 


38 15 
36 50 


77 34 
76 19 


350 
12 


T. R. 
B.T. R. 



WISCONSIN. 



Armstrong, S 

Atwood, Isaac 

Bean, Professor S. A 

Clarke. Prof. Ambrose W. 

Curtis, W. W 

Doyle, L. H 

Ellis, Edwin, M. D 

Gordon, W. A., M. D 

Gridley, Rev. John 

Haeuser, Emil 



Johnson, A. K 

Kellogg, George J 

Lapham, Increase A 

Larkin,Prof. E. P 

Liips, Jacob 

Mann, Wm 

Mason , Prof. R. Z 

Mattiiews, D 

Nourse, J. Harvey 

Pashley,J.S., M. D 

Pickard, J. L. , M. D 

Pomeroy, F. C 

Porter, Prof. Wm 

Sterling, Prof. J. W 

Underwood, Col. D 

Winkler, C, M. D 



Pardeeville .. 
Lake Mills... 

Waukeska 

Delafield 

Rocky Run .. 

Otsego 

Whittlesey... 

YVausau 

Kenosha 

Black Rivei 

Falls. 
Platteville... 

Janesville 

Milwaukie 

Mihvaukie 

Manitowoc. .. 

Superior 

Appleton 

Burlington... 

Bayfield 

.Vlosinee 

Platteville 

Milwaukie 

Beloit 

Madison 

Green Bay 

Milwaukie 



Columbia 

Jefferson 

Waukesha 

Waukesha . .. 

Columbia 

Columbia 

LaPointe 

Marathon 

Kenosha 

Jackson 



Grant 

Rock 

Milwaukie 

; Milwaukie 

j Manitowoc 

Douglass 

Outagamie 

Racine 

LaPointe 

| Marathon 

JGrant 

Milwaukie 

Rock 

Dane 

Drown 

Milwaukie.. 



43 


44 


43 


00 


42 


50 


43 


20 


43 


26 


13 


30 


16 


33 


45 


00 


42 


35 


11 


17 


45 


00 


42 


43 


43 


03 


43 


02 


11 


07 


46 


46 


•11 


10 


42 


39 


47 


00 


44 


44 


42 


45 


43 


03 


42 


30 


43 


05 


4i 


30 


43 


03 



89 16 
89 00 
88 11 

88 31 

89 20 



91 00 

89 30 
87 50 

90 30 

90 00 
89 90 
S7 54 
87 55 

87 45 

92 03 

88 35 



91 00 

89 35 

90 00 
87 57 
89 04 
89 25 
SS 00 
87 57 



833 
900 



658 



600 



780 
593 
684 
o SO 
680 
800 
700 



658 
750 
1,068 
584 
600 



r. 

N. 

B.T.P. 

B.T. 

T.R. 

N T . 

r. R. 

T.R. 

B.T. R. 

T. 

T. R. 

r. 

B.T. P. 
B.T. 
B. T. 
T. R. 
A. 
N. 
T. R. 

r. 

T. R. 

T. 

B.T.R. 

A. 

T. R. 

B.T.R. 



■ Above Lnke Michigan. 



94 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

MEXICO. 



Name of observer. 


Station. 


-3 

hi 


'5c 

c 
o 

1-) 


.SP 


Instruments. 


Berendt, German, M. D. 


Vera Cruz, Vera Cruz 

Cordova, Vera Cruz 

Minititlan,Tehuan tepee 

Chiuamaca, Tehuantepec 

Mirador, Vera Cruz 


O 

19 12 
18 54 

17 59 

18 02 

19 15 


O ' 

96 09 

94 07 
94 15 
96 25 


Feet. 

26 
2,820 

60 

100 

3,600 


A. 
B.T.R. 


Laszlo, Charles -j 


A. 
A. 
A. 









CENTRAL AMERICA. 


Canudas, Antonio 




14 37 


90 30 




A. 


WEST INDIES. 






| 


B.T. 










BERMUDA. 


Royal Engineers, (in the 


Centre Signal Station, St. 

George's. 








A. 


Royal Gazette. ) 










SOUTH AMERICA. 



Dorsey, Edward B. 
Hering, C. T 



Chanareillo, Chile 

Plantation Catharina Sophia, 

Colony of Surinam, Dutch 

Guiana. 



27 28S 
5 48 



70 28 
56 47 



3,860 |B.T. 
I A.. 



ASIA. 



arelay, R. G., M. D.. 



Jerusalem, Palestine 



31 47 I 35 13E 2,610 A. 



[ Sent observations also lor 1858. 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 



95 



METEOROLOGICAL RECORDS RECEIVED FROM PERSONS NOT REGULAR 

OBSERVERS. 

From Andrew Scott. — Copy of journal kept at the public library, 
Nassau, N. P., Bahamas, lat. 25° 05', long. 77° 21', by A. M. Smith, 
Librarian, January, 1858, to August, 1859, observations of barometer, 
thermometer, and wind. 

From Dr. Edward P. Vollum, U. S. A. — Twenty-four slips ozone 
paper, kept at Fort Umpqua, Oregon, from June 12 to August 5, 1859. 

From Captain A. W. Whipple, U. S. A. — Observations of ba- 
rometer, thermometer, psychrometer, rain, clouds, and winds, from 
May 16 to September 30, 1859, made at Lake George, Chippewa 
county, Michigan. The observations for May were taken by J. H. 
Foster; for July, August, and September by Edward Perrault. 

From A. Mattlson, Paducah, Ky. — Observations made at Bogota, 
South America, on barometer, thermometer, and rain, by Ezequiel 
Uricoechea, for June, 1857, and March, April, and May, 1859. 
Printed slips. 

From Lieutenant John Mullan, U. S. A., in charge of the military 
"wagon road expedition from Fort Walla-Walla to Fort Benton. Ob- 
servations made on barometer and thermometer at Cantonment Jordan, 
in the valley of the St. Francis Borgia river, for December, 1859, by 
W. W. Johnson. 

From B. F. Shumard, Austin, Texas. — Observations on barometer, 
thermometer, winds, and clouds, for the year 1859, made on the geo- 
logical and agricultural survey of Texas, under his direction, by 
George G. Shumard, M. D. 

From John H. Clark, commissioner, United States and Texas 
boundary survey. — Barometric record from January 15 to September 
21, 1859; the record not continuous, but made from time to time at 
the various astronomical stations. Received through the Interior 
Department. 

From S. T. Angier, of Columbia, Texas. — Desultory notes of 
weather made in Sussex county, Virginia, during the year 1820. 

From Captain John Pope, U. S. A. — Observations with full set of 
instruments on expedition in Texas and New Mexico, made by James 
M. Reade, from March, 1855, to December, 1857. 



Stations from which Telegraphic Reports of the weather were received at 
the Smithsonian Institution in tic year lb59. 



New York, N. Y. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 
Pittsburg, Pa. 
Baltimore, Md. 
Frederick, Md. 
Hagerstown, Md. 
Cumberland. Md. 
Richmond, Va. 
Petersburg, Va. 
Norfolk, Va. 
Staunton, Va, 
Charlottesville, V, 
Lynchburgh, Va. 



Wytheville, Va. 
< Irafton, Va. 

Wheeling, Va. 
Parkersburg, Va. 
Marietta, Ohio. 
Chillicothe, Ohio. 
Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Bristol, Tenn. 
Knoxville, Tenn. 
Chatanooga, Tenn. 
Raleigh, N. C. 
Wilmington, N. C. 
Columbia, S. C. 



Charleston. S. C. 
Augusta, Ga. 
Savannah, Ga. 
Macon, Ga. 
Columbus, Ga. 
Atlanta, < ra. 
Prairie Bluff, Ala. 
Montgomery, Ala. 
Lower Peach Tree, Ala. 
Mobile, Ala. 

■ Hie, Miss. 
- n. Miss. 
New Orleans, La. 



96 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 



DEATHS OF OBSERVERS. 



Samuel Brown, Bedford, Pa., died in end of 1858 or beginning of 
1859. He commenced observing before 1854. The last register re- 
ceived from him was for October, 1858. 

John Lefferts. observer at Farmer, Seneca county, N. Y., died 
on the 14th of January, 1859. 

William Cranch Bond, an eminent American astronomer and di- 
rector of the Cambridge observatory, died on the 29th of January, 
1859, in the 69th year of his age. 

Dr. J. W. Tuck, secretary of the Board of Health, Memphis, Tenn., 
died about the first of June, 1859. Observer since 1857. 

Dr. E. H. Barton, formerly of New Orleans, died at Charleston, 
S. C, in September, 1859. 

Dr. John James, Upper Alton, Illinois, observer since 1854, died 
October 11, 1859. 

Dr. John F. Posey, Savannah, Ga., died in January, 18G0. Ob- 
server since previous to 1854. 



REPORTS OF COMMITTEES. 



97 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



The Executive Committee respectfully submit to the Board of Re- 
gents the following report of the receipts and expenditures of the 
Smithsonian Institution during the year 1859, with estimates for the 
year 1§G0: 

Receipts. 

The whole amount of Smithson's bequest deposited in 
the treasury of the United States is $515,169, from 
which an annual income, at six per cent., is derived, of $30, 910 14 

Extra fund of unexpended income, invested as 
follows: 

In $75,000 Indiana 5 per cent, bonds, 

yielding $3, 750 00 

In $53,500 Virginia 6 per cent, bonds, 

yielding > 3, 210 00 

In $7,000 Tennessee 6 per cent, bonds, 

yielding 420 00 

In $500 Georgia 6 per cent, bonds, 

yielding 30 00 

In $100 Washington 6 per cent, bonds, 

yielding ■ 6 00 

» 7,416 00 

38,326 M 
Balance in the hands of the Treasurer 

January 1, 1859 16,141 36 

54,467, 5<> 
Expenditures. 

For building, furniture, and fixtures ••• • $1,720 57 
For items common to the different objects 

of the Institution 11,519 04 

For publications, researches, and lectures 11,072 32. 
For library, museum, and gallery of art- • 10,521 46 

34,833 39 

Balance in the hands of the Treasurer January 1, I860,. 

including $5,000 of the extra/and not yet invested- • 19,634 11 

7 



98 REPORTS OF COMMITTEES. 

Statement in detail of the expenditures in 1859. 

BUILDING, FURNITURE, AND FIXTURES. 

Repairs and incidentals $1, 054 28 

Furniture and fixtures in common 274 28 

Furniture and fixtures for museum 135 21 

Magnetic observatory 256 80 

6 ■ $1,720 57 

GENERAL EXPENSES. 

Meetings of the Board $14 50 

Lighting and heating 902 68 

Postage 558 65 

Transportation and exchange 1,458 34 

Stationery 289 37 

General printing t • • • 569 60 

Apparatus 766 13 

Laboratory 68 36 

Incidentals general 570 06 

Salaries — Secretary 3, 500 00 

Chief clerk 1,400 00 

Book-keeper, janitor, &c 1,064 00 

Extra clerk hire 357 35 

11,519 04 

PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES, AND LECTURES. 

Smithsonian Contributions 3, 964 15 

Reports on progress of knowledge 1,831 19 

Other publications 686 37 

Meteorology 3, 247 36 

Investigations, computations, and researches • • 464 05 

Lectures 879 20 

11,072 32 

LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART. 

Library— Cost of books 2,530 83 

Pay of assistants 1, 347 00 

Transportation 217 74 

Incidentals 25 00 

Museum — Salary of Assistant Secretary 2,000 00 

Explorations 315 65 

Collections 16 87 

Incidentals, jars, alcohol, &c 1,115 65 

Assistants and labor 2,378 38 

Transportation 544 34 

Gallery of Art 30 00 

10,521 46 



Total expenditure 34, 833 39 



REPORTS OF COMMITTEES. 99 

The estimated income for the year 1859, inclusive of the balance 
in the hands of the Treasurer, was $54,495 56, and the actual 
income $54,467 50; showing a difference of $28 06 less than the 
estimate. This difference arises from the fact that in the previous 
reports the whole amount of $3,210 interest on Virginia stock was 
assumed to have been placed to the credit of the Treasurer, although 
Riggs & Co. retained $16 06 for commission, &c, at the time of the 
purchase. 

In addition to the above, the interest for two years on the Wash- 
ington corporation stock, amounting to $12, was considered as in the 
hands of the treasurer, although it had not actually been drawn. 

The estimated expenditure was $38,000. The actual expenditure 
$34,833 39; showing a difference of $3,166 61 less than the esti- 
mate, due principally to a less expenditure on the building, furniture, 
and the publications. 

The amount of income above that of the expenditure was $3,492 75, 
which, added to the actual balance ($16,141 36) in the hands of the 
Treasurer at the beginning of the year 1859, makes $19,634 11. It 
is necessary to mention that $5, 000' of this belongs to the extra fund, 
which has not yet been invested. 

The annual appropriation from Congress for keeping the museum 
of the exploring expedition has been expended, under the direction 
of the Secretary of the Interior, in assisting to pay the extra ex- 
penses of assistants and the cost of preserving and arranging the 
specimens. 

An appropriation has also been continued during the past year by 
the Patent Office for the collection of meteorological statistics for the 
Agricultural Report. 

It is believed the expenditures under these heads have been eco- 
nomically and judiciously made, and that the services rendered to 
government have been strictly and faithfully performed. 

The specimens intrusted to the care of the Institution are now 
undergoing a thorough examination, and, being scientifically arranged, 
are in a better condition to meet the wants of the naturalist, and to 
interest the public, than ever before. 

The committee respectfully submit the following estimate of the 
expenditures for the year 1860 : 

Estimate of appropriations for the year 1860. 

BUILDING, FURNITURE, AND FIXTURES. 

Repairs and incidentals $1, 500 00 

Furniture and fixtures 800 00 

Magnetic observator\ T 350 00 

$2,650 00 

GENERAL EXPENSES. 

Meetings of the Board 250 00 

Lighting and heating 1,000 00 



100 REPORTS OF COMMITTEES. 

p ostag e $600 00 

Transportation and exchange 1,500 00 

Stationery;-- 300 00 

General printing COO 00 

Apparatus, 800 00 

Laboratory J°? 00 

Incidentals general ■ 500 00 

Salaries.— Secretary 3, 500 00 

Chief clerk, messenger, book-keeper, 

laborers, &c 3,000 00 

Extra clerk hire 500 00 

$12,650 00 

PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES, AND LECTURES. 

Smithsonian Contributions 6, 000 00 

Reports on progress 500 00 

Miscellaneous collections 1,000 00 

Meteorology 3,000 00 

Investigations '00 00 

Lectures 800 00 

12,000 00 

LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART. 

Library.— Cost of books 2, 500 00 

Pay of assistants 1, 500 00 

Transportation 250 00 

Incidentals 50 00 

Museum. — Salary of Assistant Secretary 2,000 00 

Explorations 300 00 

Collections 200 00 

Incidentals 1,000 00 

Assistants and labor 2, 000 00 

Transportation 600 00 

Gallery of Art 300 00 

10,700 00 



38,000 00 

The committee have carefully examined all the books and accounts 
of the Institution for the past year, and find them to be correct. 
Respectfully submitted. 

J. A. PEARCE, 
A. D. BACHE, 

Executive Committee* 
Washington. 



* General Totten, the other member of the Executive Committee, is temporarily absent 
in California on official duty. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 101 



JOURNAL OP PROCEEDINGS. 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



Washington, January 18, 1860. 

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution fixing the time of the beginning of their an- 
nual session on the third Wednesday of January of each year, the 
Board met this day in the Regents' room of the Institution. 

Present : Hon. Jas. A. Pearce, Hon. W. H. English, and the Sec- 
retary. 

No quorum being present, the Board adjourned to meet on the 28th 
of January. 

January 28, 1860. 

The Board of Regents met this day, at 10^ o'clock a. m., in the 
Regents' room, 

Present: Hon. Mr. Breckinridge, Hon. James A. Pearce, Hon. J. 
M. Mason, Professor C. C. Felton, Professor A. D. Bache, Hon. J. 
G. Berret, W. W. Seaton, esq., Treasurer, and the Secretary. 

The Secretary announced the reappointment, by the Vice-Presi- 
dent, under a resolution of the Senate, of the Hon. S. A. Douglas, as 
a Regent for the term of six years, and stated that the House of Rep- 
resentatives not having organized, the vacancies in the Board from 
that body had not been filled. He regretted to state that the Chan- 
cellor of the Institution, Chief Justice Taney, was confined to his bed 
by temporary illness; that Mr. Hawley, of Albany, was unable to at- 
tend on account of bad health, and that since the last meeting of the 
Regents a vacancy had occurred in the Board by the death of the 
Hon. Richard Rush, of Philadelphia. 

Hon. Mr. Pearce then made the following remarks: 

Since the last meeting of the Board of Regents, as announced by 
the Secretary, one of its earliest and most distinguished members, 
the Hon. Richard Rush, has departed this life. 

The history of his public career is familiar to all the Regents, to 



102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

whom I need scarcely detail even its more prominent incidents; but 
I may remark that it is seldom the good fortune of any man to fill so 
many important offices, and to execute so many responsible public 
trusts, not only with credit, honor, and usefulness, but with ever-in- 
creasing reputation. Mr. Rush's life was along one, and he entered 
into the service of his country while yet in the spring of manhood. 
He was Comptroller of Jhe Treasury at a time when the fiscal affairs 
of the government were in disorder, when the public accounts were 
numerous and complicated, and often required difficult legal adjust- 
ment. He was next Attorney General. Soon after the peace of 1815 
he was minister to England, and occupied that important post during 
eight years, when various national questions of difficulty and delicacy 
required for their proper settlement diplomatic skill, firmness, and 
caution. He was Secretary of the Treasury when measures of rev- 
enue were violently disputed; minister to France when the mon- 
archy was a second time overthrown and a republic again proclaimed. 
To these great and varied employments he brought integrity, 
ability, intelligence, firmness, courtesy, and a directness of purpose 
which scorned all finesse, and which served his country to the full 
extent of all that could have been demanded or hoped. He was a 
good scholar, having graduated at Princeton College, and cultivated 
literature, as well as the severer studies of his profession, with great 
zeal and success. 

Withal he was remarkable for the kindness of his temper, the 
amenity of his manners, and the charms of his conversation. 

With this establishment he had the earliest connexion, having, 
under the authority of the government, caused the institution of legal 
proceedings in England for the recovery of the fund with which it 
was founded and endowed, and superintended their progress to the close. 

The act of Congress of 1846 having established the Smithsonian 
Institution, he was appointed one of its first Regents, and was con- 
stantly continued by Congress a member of their Board. His zeal 
for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men, and his 
sound judgment, contributed to the adoption of the system of opera- 
tions which, so far, has borne the happiest fruits; and his interest in 
and care for its successful management furnished one of the enjoyments 
of a tranquil old age, " attended by reverence and troops of friends." 

I offer the following resolutions: 

Resolved, That the Board of Regents have learned with deep regret 
the death of the Hon. Richard Rush, one of their members, whose 
long and distinguished career of public usefulness commanded their 
entire respect, and whose moral and social worth won their highest 
esteem and regard. 

Resolved, That a copy of this resolution be transmitted to the family 
of the deceased. 

The resolutions were unanimously adopted. 

On motion of Mr. Mason, it was ordered that a copy of the remarks 
of Mr. Pearce be included in the proceedings, and also transmitted 
to the family. 

The Treasurer presented the account of receipts and expenditures 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 103 

for the year 1859, and a general statement of the finances, which 
were read and referred to the Executive Committee. 

The Secretary read the following letter from the Duke of North- 
umberland, and presented the books to which it refers: 

Northumberland House, July 4, 1859. 

Sir: Permit me to present to the Smithsonian Institution some 
books which I have had privately printed as materials for the history 
of the county of Northumberland. There is a survey of the Roman 
wall which was built across the north of England; coins of the Roman 
families, some of which were found in this country; and an account 
of some ancient castles which have historical interest. 

I again beg to express my thanks to the members of the Smith- 
sonian Institution for the valuable publications which they have had 
the kindness to send me. 

I am, sir, your obedient servant. 

NORTHUMBERLAND. 

The Secretary exhibited a burning lens and a condensing air- 
pump, which had been presented to the Institution by J. R. Priest- 
ley, esq., of Northumberland, Pa., a grandson of the celebrated Dr. 
Priestley, and made the following remarks: 

This lens is undoubtedly connected with the history of one of the 
most important chemical discoveries of the latter part of the last 
century. Dr. Priestley, who has been styled the father of pneumatic 
chemistry, made a series of experiments on different kinds of air, 
which greatly extended the science of chemistry, and has been of 
material importance in the improvement of various practical arts. 

"At the time of my first publication," [says Dr. Priestley,]* "I 
was not possessed of a burning lens of any considerable force, and for 
want of one I could not possibly make many of the experiments 
which I had projected, and which in theory appeared very promising. 
But having afterwards procured a lens of twelve inches diameter and 
twenty inches focal distance, I proceeded with great alacrity to ex- 
amine by the help of it what kind of air a great variety of substances, 
natural and factitious, would yield, putting them into glass vessels, 
which I filled with quicksilver, and kept them inverted in a basin of 
the same. With this apparatus, after a variety of other experi- 
ments, on the 1st of August, 1774, I endeavored to extract air from 
mercurius calcined us per se, and I presently found that by means of 
this lens air was expelled from it very readily. Having got three or 
four times as much [air] as the bulk of my materials, I admitted water 
to it, and found that it was not imbibed by it. But what surprised 
me more than I can well express was, that a candle burned in this 
air with a remarkably vigorous flame." 

The gas thus discovered, to which he gave the name of " dephlo- 
gisticated air," was what is now known as oxygen. 

a Experiments and observations on different kinds of air, &c, by Jos. Priestly : vol. ii> 
pp. 106-112. Birmingham, 1790. 



104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

Dr. Priestley, however, though he made a large number of experi- 
ments in regard to it, remained in ignorance of its true nature until 
March, 1775; but in the course of this month, says he, "I not only 
ascertained the nature of this kind of air, though very gradually, but 
was led by it, as I then thought, to the complete discovery of the con- 
stitution of the air we breathe." 

That the lens now exhibited to the Board is the one_ with which 
this important discovery was made cannot be doubted, since, accord- 
ing to the statement of his grandson, it has never been out of the 
family — is twelve inches diameter, and has a focal length of precisely 
twenty inches. 

The annual report of the operations and condition of the Institu- 
tion was presented by the Secretary, and read in part. 

On motion of Mr. Pearce, the Board then adjourned to meet on 
Saturday next, at 10 o'clock. 

Saturday, February 4, 18G0. 

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day, at 10 o' clock a.m. 

Present: Hon. John C. Breckinridge, Hon. James A. Pearce, Hon. 
S. A. Douglas, Professor C. C. Felton, Professor A. D. Bache, Hon. 
J. G. Berret, and the Secretary. 

Mr. Breckinridge was called to the chair. 

The minutes were read and approved. 

The Secretary announced the death of the following persons who 
had been connected officially and otherwise with the operations of the 
Institution: Washington Irving, an honorary member; Professor Par- 
ker Cleaveland, also an honorary member; Professor W. W. Turner, 
Professor James P. Espy, and G. Wiirdemann, esq. 

Professor Felton then addressed the Board as follows : 

Mr. Chancellor: The year 1859 will be memorable in the history 
of civilization for the number of illustrious men who have passed away 
from the scene of their earthly labor in its course. The year 1769 
was remarkable for the number of men born in it, who have changed 
the whole aspect of science and letters and the political condition of 
the world. Of the great men born in that year, one, Humboldt, the 
most eminent of all, lived to the year 1859, thus spanning over the 
interval between them by a life of 90 years consecrated to the highest 
objects of human pursuits. 

The Smithsonian Institution has to lament an unusual number of 
those connected with it among the distinguished dead of the past 
year. The venerable Mr. Rush has already been fitly commemorated 
by a member of the Board. I take the liberty of oifering a few re- 
marks upon two others whose death the country deplores. 

Professor W. W. Turner was born in England in 1810. At the age 
of five years he was brought by his father "to the United States. The 
fortunes of his family being humble, he learned the trade of a carpen- 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 105 

ter; but at the age of nineteen he became a printer. During his 
youth and early manhood he exhibited an ardent love of knowledge, 
and devoted every moment he could spare from the necessary labors 
of his trade to its acquisition. His taste led him especially to the 
study of philology, and his acquisitions in this department of knowl- 
edge were surprising. He studied not only the ancient languages, 
including the Hebrew, Chaldee, Syriac, Samaritan, Coptic and San- 
scrit, but the modern European and Oriental tongues. To these rich 
and varied accomplishments he added an extensive knowledge of the 
dialects of the American aborigines, which form a group so peculiar 
in their characteristics, and so important in their bearings upon com- 
parative philology. But Mr. Turner possessed not merely the talent 
of learning languages. His mind was of a philosophical cast; he 
mastered easily and rapidly the general principles of the science of 
comparative philology, which has become within the present age one 
of the surest guides in tracing the history and affinities of the different 
branches of the human race. This science but few men of his age 
have so thoroughly explored as our departed friend. 

In 1842 Mr. Turner was elected professor of Oriental literature in 
the Union Theological Seminary of the city of New York. The duties 
of this office he discharged with signal ability for ten years. In 1852 
the Commissioner of Patents invited him to Washington to take charge 
of the library in that department. His labors in forming a library 
for the special use of the department and adequate to its wants have 
been highly appreciated by those who knew them best. 

His literary activity has been various and effective. He assisted 
the learned Dr. Nordheimer in the preparation of his Hebrew gram- 
mar. He executed the greater part of the translation of Freund's 
Latin Lexicon from the German for the American edition. He wrote 
many valuable papers for the "Bibliotheca Sacra" and other kindred 
periodical publications. A few years ago an inscription was found 
near the ancient Sidon, cut on the lid of the sarcophagus of an ancient 
king of that city, and copies of it having been transmitted to this 
country by the American missionaries, it attracted the earnest atten- 
tion of Oriental scholars, and among the rest, of Professor Turner. 
The discovery was important, because the inscription contains the 
longest continuous text yet known in the Phenician language: a lan- 
guage closely connected with the Hebrew. The labors of Professor 
Turner upon this curious document were among the last of his life. 

Two of the principal philological works published by the Smith- 
sonian Institution were moulded into their present shape by Professor 
Turner: the Dacota grammar and dictionary, and the grammar of 
the Yoruba language. The materials furnished him were elaborated 
with great skill and learning; and these two admirable volumes form 
an interesting addition to philological science — the Dacota grammar 
illustrating in a philosophical manner the characteristic peculiarities 
of the American type of the agglutinating or polysynthetic languages, 
and the Yoruba grammar illustrating the African type of the same 
great division in the classification of human speech. 

The unremitting labors of Professor Turner gradually undermined 
his constitution. In October last he visited New York, partly for the 



106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

benefit of his impaired health, and partly to attend a meeting of the 
American Oriental Society, of which he was an active member. On 
his return to Washington, in November, he rapidly declined, and on 
Tuesday, the 29th of that month, expired, without pain, at the age 

of 49 years. . ..... 

Professor Turner was not only distinguished for his abilities as a 
scholar, his extraordinary capacity for labor, his great power of grasp- 
ing the generalization of the science to which he was devoted, but 
his private life was marked by singular purity. His manners were 
simple and cordial; his conversation lively and instructive. He was 
modest, without reserve; he was unobtrusive, but always ready to im- 
part his affluent knowledge whenever the occasion seemed to call for 
it. The death of such a man is a loss to science and the country. I 
move the adoption of the following resolution: 

Resolved, That this Board have learned with deep regret of the 
death of Professor W. W. Turner, a scholar of rare gifts and large 
acquirements, whose abilities and learning have in many ways been of 
great value to the Smithsonian Institution. As a philologist, he had 
but few equals; as an earnest laborer in the pursuit of knowledge, he 
was a high example to American students. As a public officer, he 
was upright, conscientious, and prompt in the discharge of every duty. 
His social virtues endeared him to his friends in no common measure. 
By his death American scholarship has sustained a heavy loss, this 
Institution has been deprived of an efficient collaborator, and the com- 
munity at large of a virtuous and distinguished citizen. 

On motion of Hon. J. G. Berret, it was 

Resolved, That a copy of this resolution, with the introductory 
remarks, be transmitted to the family of the deceased. 

The resolutions were adopted. 

Professor Felton then addressed the Board as follows: 
I have also, Mr. Chancellor, to call the attention of the Board to 
the death of an honorary member of the Smithsonian Institution — the 
beloved and illustrious Washington Irving, the most venerated repre- 
sentative of American literature. He was born April 3, 1783, in New 
York, and died at his residence, at Sunnyside, on the banks of the 
Hudson, November 28, 1859, in the 77th year of his age. His literary 
career extends over a period of more than half a century. For many 
years he has stood undoubtedly at the head of American literature. 
He enjoyed only the common opportunities of education in his youth; 
but the oldest universities of England and America honored themselves 
by conferring their highest honors on him in his manhood. At an 
early age he commenced the study of the law. His health failing, he 
travelled two years in Europe, and resuming his professional studies 
on his return, w r as admitted to the bar. Not finding the practice of 
the profession congenial to his tastes, he relinquished it, and became 
a partner in a mercantile house with his brother. But he was not 
destined to remain long in the career of trade; the failure of the 
house in the crisis that followed the peace of 1815 turned his attention 
to literature as a permanent pursuit. He had already shown by the 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 107 

most decided proofs that nature had endowed him with the richest 
gifts of genius. His early writings, especially his contributions to 
Salmagundi, and Knickerbocker's History of New York, exhibit the 
keenest power of observation, the most brilliant wit, and an English 
style at once pure, copious, and expressive. But when he resolved to 
devote himself to letters as the business of his life, instead of the 
amusement of his leisure hours, he gave to the culture of style the 
thought, care, and labor that the painter and the sculptor expend in 
acquiring a mastery over the materials, principles, and processes of 
their respective arts. In the choice of his words and the structure of 
his sentences he exercised a refined taste and a delicate discrimination, 
allowing nothing to escape him which was not justified by the most 
fastidious judgment. He studied the best authors of the best ages in 
English literature, and disciplined his genius by a strict conformity to 
the established idiom of the mother tongue. Oddity and extravagance 
of expression, which some writers of our age mistake for originality of 
genius, found no favor with him. His genial nature, his sensibility to 
all that is beautiful in the works of God, his ready sympathy with the 
best affections of the human heart, were thus embodied in a style of 
marvellous grace, purity, and harmony. His imagination, gentle yet 
powerful, brightened everything it fell upon; his wit exhilarated and 
gladdened; his humor charmed by its sparkling play; his pathos, so 
true, so tender, colored with the unforgotten sorrow of his own early 
bereavement, touched the chords of sympathy in every heart. He 
was an elegant essayist, a delightful biographer, a profound and 
brilliant historian, and his whole life was loyal to the highest interests 
of humanity. In private friendships he was faithful and generous. 
He had all the excellencies of the literary character, with none of its 
defects. He had no rivalries to disturb the serenity of his days, no 
jealousies to irritate his temper. While enjoying his own brilliant 
success, with a modest appreciation of its value, he rejoiced in the 
successes of others, and delighted to aid them with his powerful influ- 
ence. He never had an enemy, for all men were his friends. He 
never uttered a word that could wound the feelings of the most sensi- 
tive; he never wrote a sentence that could offend the most delicate; 
he never printed a line which, dying, he could wish to blot. His genius 
has been recognized throughout the civilized world; his works are read 
and his name revered wherever a cultivated language has been the 
organ of a national literature. The legends of Spain and Italy have 
furnished congenial subjects for his pen. The manners and life of 
England have been more brilliantly illustrated by him than by any 
English writer of our time. His native land, however, has been 
crowned by the richer and mature products of his genius. The 
picturesque banks of the Hudson have been made classical by the 
charm with which his creations — poetical in all but the form — have 
invested them. It is his peculiar felicity to have built the most 
enduring monument to the discoverer of America and to the Father 
of his Country, with the latter of whom he was associated by his 
baptismal name. 

Mr. Irving took a lively interest in all that concerned the intellectual 
progress of the country; in all that concerned humanity, beyond the 



108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

circle of his own literary interests. He was the first named trustee 
of the Astor Library under the will of its munificent founder, and for 
many years acted as the president of the board. He served as a 
director in the Savings Bank in the place of his residence until his 
death; and he was an officer of the village church, from which his 
own lifeless remains were borne to their final resting place by his 
mother's side. He had the prospects of this Institution much at 
heart, and gave his constant attendance to its proceedings during a 
whole season passed by him in Washington. Ripe in age, crowned 
with the most enduring honors of the world and with the warmest 
affections of his countrymen, having finished the work which was 
given him to do and laid aside his pen forever, after a short period 
of repose in the midst of his friends, at the close of an evening of 
social and domestic enjoyment, he passed away in a moment by a 
blessed euthanasia. We cannot be surprised at such an event, though 
it excites our sensibility. His death was in beautiful harmony with 
his life, for he died as he had lived, the beloved of men and the 
favored of Heaven. 

Thinking thus, Mr. Chancellor, of Mr. Irving' s life, character, and 
death, I offer the following resolutions: 

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution 
recognize in the character of their late associate, Washington Irving, 
a conspicuous example of the noblest virtues and the most generous 
qualities that belong to human nature. 

Resolved, That while lamenting his death with the peculiar sorrow 
of countrymen and associates in this Institution, yet, in common with 
the whole civilized world, they gratefully appreciate the services he 
has rendered to literature, and hold in reverent remembrance his long 
career of labors as an author no less loyal to truth and virtue than 
brilliant with the gift of genius and graced with the amenities. and 
courtesies that are the fairest ornaments of social life. 

On motion of Senator Douglas, it was 

Resolved, That a copy of the above resolutions, together with the 
remarks that preceded them, be transmitted to the family of the 
deceased. 

The resolutions were then adopted. 

Professor Bache made the following remarks: 

James P. Espy, one of the most original and successful meteor- 
ologists of the present time, died in Cincinnati, Ohio, on the 24th of 
January, 1860, in the seventy-fifth year of his age, after an illness of 
a week, at the residence of his nephew, John Westcott. 

The early career of Mr. Espy as an instructor was marked by the 
qualities which led to his later distinction in science. He was one 
of the best classical and mathematical instructors in Philadelphia, 
which at that day numbered Dr. Wylie, Mr. Sanderson, and Mr. 
Crawford among its teachers. 

Impressed by the researches and writings of Dalton and of Daniell 
on meteorology, Mr. Espy began to observe the phenomena, and then 
to experiment on the facts which form the groundwork of the science. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 109 

As he observed, experimented, and studied, his enthusiasm grew, and 
his desire to devote himself exclusively to the increase and diffusion 
of the science finally became so strong that he determined to give up 
his school, and to rely for the means of prosecuting his researches 
upon his slender savings and the success of his lectures, probably the 
most original which have ever been delivered on this subject. His 
first course was delivered before the Franklin Institute of Penn- 
sylvania, of which he had long been an active member, and where he 
met kindred spirits, ready to discuss the principles or the applica-. 
tions of science, and prepared to extend their views over the whole 
horizon of physical and mechanical research. As chairman of the 
committee on meteorology, Mr. Espy had a large share in the organi- 
zation of the complete system of meteorological observations carried 
on by the institute under the auspices and within the limits of the 
State of Pennsylvania. 

Mr. Espy's theory of storms was developed in successive memoirs 
in the Journal of the Franklin Institute, containing discussions of the 
changes of temperature, pressure, and moisture of the air, and in the 
direction and force of the wind and other phenomena attending re- 
markable storms in the United States and on the ocean adjacent to 
the Atlantic and Gulf coast. Assuming great simplicity as it was 
developed, and founded on the established laws of physics and upon 
ingenious and well-directed original experiments, this theory drew 
general attention to itself, especially in the United States. A me- 
moir submitted anonymously to the American Philosophical Society 
of Philadelphia gained for Mr. Espy the award of the Magellanic 
premium in the year 1836, after a discussion remarkable for ingenuity 
and closeness in its progress, and for the almost unanimity of its result. 

Mr. Espy was eminently social in his mental habits, full of bonhom- 
mie and of enthusiasm, easily kindling into a glow by social mental 
action. In the meetings and free discussions in a club formed for 
promoting research, and especially for scrutinizing the labors of its 
members — and of which Sears C. Walker, Professor Henry, Henry 
D. Rogers, and myself were members — Mr. Espy found the mental 
stimulus that he needed, and the^riticism which he courted, the best 
aids and checks on his observations, speculations, and experiments. 
But there was one person who had more influence upon him than all 
others besides, stimulating him to progress, and urging him forward 
in each step with a zeal which never flagged — this was his wife. 
Having no children to occupy her care, and being of high mental en- 
dowment and of enthusiastic temperament, she found a never-failing 
source of interest and gratification in watching the development of 
Mr. Espy's scientific ideas^ the progress of his experiments, and the 
results of his reading and studies; the collection and collation of ob- 
servations of natural phenomena in the poetical region of the storm, 
the tornado, and of the aurora. Mrs. Espy's mind was essentially 
literary, and she could not aid her husband in his scientific inquiries 
or experiments: her health was delicate, and she could not assist him 
in his out-door observations; but she supplied what was of more im- 
portance than these aids — a genial and loving interest ever manifested 
in his pursuits and successes, and in his very failures. Alere Jlam- 



110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

mam was the office of her delicate and poetical temperament. 
Younger than Mr. Espy, she nevertheless died several years before 
him, (in 1850,) leaving him to struggle alone in the decline of life 
without the sustaining power of her devoted and enthusiastic nature. 

Having in a great degree matured his theory of storms; having 
made numerous inductions from observations, and having written 
a great deal in regard to it, Mr. Espy took the bold resolution, though 
past middle age, to throw himself into a new career, laying aside 
all ordinary employments, and devoting himself to the diffusion of the 
knowledge which he had collected and increased, by lecturing in the 
towns, villages, and cities of the United States. This proved a suc- 
cessful undertaking, and by its originality attracted more attention 
to his views than could have been obtained, probably, in any other 
way. He soon showed remarkable power in explaining his ideas. 
His simplicity and clearness enabled his hearers to follow him without 
too great effort, and the earnestness with which he spoke out his con- 
victions carried them away in favor of his theory. The same power 
which enabled him to succeed in his lecturing career procured sub- 
sequently for Mr. Espy the support and encouragement of some of the 
leading men in Congress, and especially in the Senate, and also in 
the executive departments. Their attention was arrested by the 
originality of his views and his warmth in presenting them, and he 
imparted so much of his conviction of their truth as to induce many 
of our statesmen and official persons to exert themselves to procure 
for him, under the patronage of the government, continued oppor- 
tunities for study, research, and the comparison of observations. To 
the consistent support of his scientific friends, and particularly of the 
Secretary of this Institution, Mr. Espy owed also much in obtaining 
the opportunities of keeping in a scientific career. His reports to 
the surgeon general of the army, to Congress, and to the Secretary 
of the Navy, are among his latest efforts in this direction. 

The earnest and deep convictions of the truth of his theory in all 
its parts, and his glowing enthusiasm in regard to it; perhaps, also, 
the age which he had reached, prevented Mr. Espy from passing 
beyond a certain point in the deve^pment of his theory. The same 
constitution of mind rendered his inductions from observation often 
unsafe. His views were positive and his conclusions absolute, and 
so was the expression of them. He was not prone to examine and 
re-examine premises and conclusions, but considered what had once 
been passed upon by his judgment as finally settled. Hence his 
views did not make that impression upon cooler temperaments among 
men of science to which they were entitled— obtaining more credit 
among scholars and men of general reading,in our country than among 
scientific men, and making but little progress abroad. 

Feeling that his bodily vigor was failing, and that his life must soon 
close, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution induced him to 
re-examine the various parts of his meteorological theories of storms, 
tornadoes, and water-spouts, and to insert in his last report, while it 
was going through the press, an account of his most mature views. 
I trust that the Secretary will, in one of his reports, give us a thorough 
and critical examination of the works and services of this remarkable 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. Ill 

contributor to a branch of science, the knowledge of which the Smith- 
sonian Institution has already done so much to advance and to diffuse. 

On motion of Professor Bache, the following resolutions were adop- 
ted: 

Resolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have 
learned with deep regret the decease of James P. Espy, one of the 
most useful and zealous of the meteorologists co-operating with the 
Institution, and whose labors in both the increase and diffusion of 
knowledge of meteorology have merited the highest honors of science 
at home and have added to the reputation of our country abroad. 

Resolved, That the Regents offer to the relatives of Mr. Espy their 
sincere condolence in the loss which they have sustained. 

On motion of Mr. Pearce, it was resolved that the remarks of Pro- 
fessor Bache be entered in the proceedings. 

The Secretary introduced the subject of warming the Smithsonian 
building, stating that it was important to provide better means for 
this purpose, to insure the safety of those parts of the building which are 
not fire-proof. The subject was referred to the Executive Committee, 
and the Secretary was instructed to procure estimates for the intro- 
duction of steam or hot- water apparatus. 

The reading of the report of the Secretary was continued. 

The Board then adjourned. 

Saturday, March 17, I860. 

The Board of Regents met this day, at 10 o'clock a. m. 

Present: Hon. John C. Breckinridge, Hon. James M. Mason, Hon. 
James A. Pearce, Hon. S. A. Douglas, Hon. William H. English, Hon. 
Benjamin Stanton, Hon. J. G. Berret, Prof. A. D. Bache, Mr. Seaton, 
Treasurer, and the Secretary. 

Mr. Breckinridge was called to the chair. 

The minutes Avere read and approved. 

The Secretary announced the reappointment, by the Speaker of the 
House of Representatives, of Hon. William H. English, of Indiana; 
Hon. Benjamin Stanton, of Ohio; and Hon. L. J. Gartrell. of Georgia, 
as Regents for the term of two years. 

The Secretary presented the following letter from Edward Cunard, 
Esq.: 

New York, February 25, 1860. 

Pear Sir: I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 
16th instant, and, in reply, I beg to inform you that I shall have much 
pleasure in conveying in our steamers from New York to Liverpool 
every fortnight one or more cases from the Smithsonian Institution to 
the extent of half a ton or 20 cubic feet measurement. The cases 
to be addressed to your agent in Liverpool, or to his care. The 



112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

arrangement of free cases is intended only to apply to those shipped 
by you from this side of the water. 

Your obedient servant, 

B. CUNARD. 

Joseph Henry, Esq., 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution, Washington. 

The Secretary presented the following letter from Sir W. E. 
Logan : 

Montreal, March, 1860. 

My Dear Sir: Understanding that the shells of the United States 
exploring expedition are being arranged, and that there are many 
duplicates, I should be rejoiced if a set of them could be obtained for 
our Provincial Museum. It may be the case that what we may be 
able to return for them may not equal their value; but the Canadian 
territory is a large one, and we shall have duplicates of our fossils 
from various parts, extending from Labrador to Lake Superior. 

In our geological expeditions to the eastern part of the province, 
advantage has been taken of the opportunity to dredge in the Gulf 
of St. Lawrence, and we shall undoubtedly have duplicates of many 
of the specimens obtained. This season I hope to send an exploring 
party to the Straits of Belle Isle. 

We are so much pressed with work at present that it may be a 
little time before our duplicates are ready, particularly as the pro- 
tracted want of Professor Hall's third volume of the palaeontology of 
New York disables us from naming many of our fossils according to 
his authority, while a regard for him prevents us from naming them 
for ourselves. Our Lower Silurian fossils will be the first that will 
be ready. 

I am, mv dear sir, very truly yours, 

W. E. LOGAN. 

Professor Henry, 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington. 

A letter was read from Hon. Alfred Ely, chairman of the Com- 
mittee of Claims of the House of Representatives, relative to an 
application of an officer of the navy for remuneration for specimens 
of natural history, &c, collected by the United States exploring ex- 
pedition. 

The subject was discussed, and referred to the Secretary and the 
Executive Committee. 

A letter was read from Sir George Simpson, governor of the Hud- 
son's Bay Territory, offering to aid the Institution in collecting me- 
teorological and other information. 

A letter was read from C. Zimmerman, of Columbia, South Caro- 
lina, on the subject of the preparation by the Institution of manuals 
on entomology. 

The Secretary stated that a proposition had been made by Lieu- 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 113 

tenant Gilliss relative to an expedition to the coast of Labrador to 
observe the total eclipse of July 18, if the necessary means could be 
secured to defray the expenses, towards which, if the Institution 
would subscribe $500, the balance, it was believed, could be secured 
from individuals. 

Professor Bache addressed the Board, commending highly the pro- 
posed expedition, and stating the advantages which would result to 
science if the observations could be made. 

On motion of Professor Bache, it was 

Resolved, That an appropriation be made, not exceeding $500, to aid 
in the proposed expedition to observe the eclipse of July 18, 1860. 

The Secretary called the attention of the Board to another expe- 
dition, proposed by Dr. I. I. Hayes to the Arctic regions, and sug- 
gested the propriety of aid in furnishing that gentleman with the 
requisite instruments of observation. 

On motion of Mr. Pearce, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Institution be authorized to 
furnish such aid to the expedition of Dr. Hayes, in the way of instru- 
ments, as may be deemed advisable. 

The Secretary introduced the subject of the Stanley gallery of In- 
dian paintings, and stated that Mr. Stanley asked for an allowance of 
one hundred dollars a year to pay the interest on a debt he had in- 
curred to prevent the sacrifice of the paintings by sale. 

The subject was referred to the Secretary and the Executive Com- 
mittee. 

A letter from Professor Secchi, of Rome, was read, stating that he 
had obtained permission for the Institution to procure casts or moulds 
of celebrated works of art in that city. 

The Secretary stated that Mr. Corcoran, of Washington, was about 
to found a gallery of art, and it was very desirable that the Institu- 
tion should co-operate with him, especially in relation to copies of 
works of art from Italy. 

The subject was referred to the Secretary and the Executive Com- 
mittee. 

The Secretary presented the continuation of his annual report; 
which was read. 

The opinion was expressed by several of the Regents that a less 
number of lectures should be given than heretofore, twelve being 
considered sufficient for each season. 

The Board then adjourned. 
8 



114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

Saturday, April 7, 1860. 

The Board of Regents met this day at 10 o'clock a. m. Present: 
Hon. James A. Pearce, Hon. S. A, Douglas, Hon. W. H. English 
Hon. Benjamin Stanton, Hon. George E. Badger, Professor Bache, 
and the Secretary. 

Mr. Pearce was called to the chair. 

The minutes were read and approved. 

Mr. Pearce presented the Report of the Executive m Committee 
which was accepted, and the estimates for the year 18G0 adopted. 

On motion of Mr. Douglas, it was 

Resolved, That the Executive Committee invest the five thousand 
dollars now in the hands of the Treasurer, belonging to the extra 
fund. 

The Secretary laid before the Board the eleventh volume of Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Knowledge, which had just been issued. 

The Secretary brought before the Board the subject of the pay of 
the assistants; which, after some remarks, was referred to the Secre- 
taiy and the Executive Committee. 

Professor Bache made the following remarks : 

Mr. Gustavus Wurdemann, in charge of the tidal observations of 
the Coast Survey on the Florida reefs and Gulf of Mexico, died at 
his home in New Jersey on the 30th of September. His health had 
been failing for some years, and during the last year he had discharged 
his duties with great difficulty, owing to great physical debility. Mr. 
Wurdemann entered the survey under my predecessor, and served, 
throughout a somewhat extended career, with a fidelity and single- 
ness of purpose that has never been exceeded. Exact truthfulness 
was the leading trait of his character, and his observations, even 
the most minute, were always reliable. It is easily seen that it 
is no exaggeration to say that such a man was invaluable in his 
place, and an example worthy to be held up as the type of faith- 
fulness. During the discharge of his laborious duties he found time 
and opportunity to make collections in natural history, which have 
been acknowledged by the Smithsonian Institution as among the 
most valuable contributions to the knowledge of the fauna of Florida. 

On motion of Professor Bache, the following resolution was unani- 
mously adopted: 

Resolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have 
learned with regret the decease of Gustavus Wurdeman, tidal ob- 
server in the Coast Survey, whose collections of specimens from the 
coast of the Gulf of Mexico, and especially of the birds of Florida, 
liberally furnished to the Smithsonian Institution, have proved of 
great importance in increasing our knowledge of the natural history 
of the southern part of the United States. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 115 

Resolved, That this resolution be communicated to the widow of Mr. 
Wurdemann. 

The Secretary read the following authentic notice, which had ap- 
peared in a recent periodical, respecting the late Professor Cleave- 
land : 

"Professor Parker Cleaveland died on the 15th of October, 1858. 
He was born in Rowley (Byfield parish) Massachusetts, January 15, 
1780, graduated at Harvard College in 1799, taught school and studied 
law until 1803, when he was appointed tutor in mathematics in Har- 
vard College. He was made professor of mathematics and natural 
philosophy, chemistry and mineralogy in Bowdoin College in 1805, 
and discharged with distinguished ability the extended duties of that 
professorship until i828, when a professor of mathematics was ap- 
pointed, and he was relieved from that part of his labor. He contin- 
ued to be the professor in the other departments until his death. He 
became widely known in the United States, and in Europe, by his 
early and successful treatise on mineralogy and geology, published in 
1816, and in a second edition in 1822. A third was called for, and 
he labored in its preparation more or less for thirty-five years, leav- 
ing it nearly ready for the press. His high reputation as a lecturer 
was spread through the country by a succession of graduates of Bow- 
doin College of more than fifty years. He was a member of the 
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and of many literary and 
scientific societies in this country and in Europe. In 1824, the hon- 
orary degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on him by Bowdoin 
College. In private life he was universally respected for his unblem- 
ished moral character, and his genial and affable disposition. His 
death called forth unusual and remarkable demonstrations of respect 
to his character and memory. In June, 1853, he was elected an 
honorary member of the Smithsonian Institution." 

On motion of Mr. Douglas, the folloAving resolutions were adopted: 

Resolved, That the Regents of this Institution have learned with 
deep regret of the decease of Professor Parker Cleveland, of Bow- 
doin College, one of the honorary members of this establishment, 
who was highly esteemed on account of his labors as a man of 
science and a teacher, and whose memory will be held in grateful 
remembrance. 

Resolved, That the Regents offer to the family of the deceased 
their sincere condolence at the loss which they and the country have 
sustained. 

The Secretary presented the following letter from Mr. Ross, chief 

factor of the Hudson's Bay Company: 

Fort Simpson, 
McKenzie's river, 30th November, 1859. 

Dear Sir: At the period of the departure of our usual winter ex- 
press I sit down to write you a few lines upon the subjects mentioned 



11 G PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS. 

in your communication of the 2d of April, 1859. I trust that the 
various cases sent you last summer from Portage La Loche reached 
you in safety, and that the contents proved satisfactory and of in 
terest. It will be my endeavor during the present and succeeding 
seasons to collect the animals mentioned as being wished for by the 
Smithsonian Institution, but I will not merely restrict myself to 
these particular objects of research, the whole field of either science 
or curiosity will be considered in all contributions which I may here- 
after forward to your collection. 

The Meteorological Register for the months of September, October, 
and November, will be forwarded by this conveyance, and I will en- 
deavor to organize a systematic series of observations at all the posts 
throughout this district. These of course will vary as to complete- 
ness and accuracy according to the tastes and acquirements of the 
officer who conducts the registry, as there are very wide differences 
in the education and talents of the various persons in the progressive 
grades of our service. A series of spirit thermometers of assured 
correctness would be useful, in fact are absolutely necessary for this 
purpose. 

As my attention will hereafter be particularly directed to ethno- 
logical pursuits; and my public duties in conducting the affairs of this 
large district are not very light, it will be impossible to keep the 
regular series of meteorological observations here myself, but I will 
delegate this duty to Mr. Andrew Flett, a very careful and intelligent 
person, though not of a finished eduction; but any extraordinary 
phenomena I will note myself in addition. 

By the usual summer boats a packet will be forwarded to your ad- 
dress, containing such observations as I can collect in our journals, 
and a complete Auroral and Weather Register taken by myself for 
Colonel Lefroy in 1850 -51, if I can find the latter. 

In conclusion I will merely say that all that lies in my power will 
be done to oblige you in any way. Every facility will be given to Mr. 
R. Kennicott to collect and forward specimens of natural history; 
free passage will be allowed him from post to post throughout the 
district, and to all his plans the various officers under my command 
will, I am sure, gladly render assistance. 

I have the honor to remain, dear sir, yours faithfully, 

BERNARD R. ROSS. 

Professor Henry, 

Smithsonian Institution. 

The reading of the report of the Secretary was then continued. 

On motion of Mr. Badger, the following resolution was adopted: 

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents are hereby 
given to the various companies and individuals who have generously 
aided in advancing the objects of the Smithsonian Institution and the 
promotion of science, by the facilities they have afforded in the trans- 
portation of books, specimens, &c, free of charge. 

The Board then adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



RETORT FOR 1859. 



The object of this Appendix is to illustrate the operations of the 
Institution by the reports of lectures and extracts from correspond- 
ence, as well as to furnish information of a character suited especially 
to the meteorological observers and other persons interested in the 
promotion of knowledge. 



LECTURES 

ON AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 



BY PROFESSOR SAMUEL W. JOHNSON, OP TALE COLLEGE, CONNECTICUT. 



LECTURE I. 

THE COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE OP THE PLANT. 

The objects of agriculture are the production of certain plants and 
certain animals which are employed to feed and clothe the human 
race. The first object in all cases is the production of plants. 

Nature has made the most extensive provision for the spontaneous 
growth of an immense variety of vegetation; but, except in rare cases, 
man is obliged to employ art to provide himself with the kinds and 
quantities of vegetable produce which his necessities or luxuries 
demand. In this defect, or rather neglect of nature, agriculture has 
its origin. 

The art of agriculture consists in certain practices and operations 
which have grown out of an observation and imitation of the best 
efforts of nature, or have been hit upon accidentally. 

We distinguish here between a,gri-culfacre, or the culture (improve- 
ment) of the field, and farming, which may be anything but the imita- 
tion of nature, which often is the grossest violation of her plain 
precepts. 

The science of agriculture is the rational theory and exposition of 
the successful art. 

Nothing is more evident than that agricultural art impedes its own 
growth by holding aloof from science. In many respects the Egyptians, 
the Romans, and the Chinese, had, centuries ago, as perfect an agri- 
cultural practice as we now possess; but this fact so demonstrates the 
extreme slowness with which an empirical art progresses, that incal- 
culable advantage must be anticipated from yoking it with the rapidly- 
developing sciences. In fact, the history of the last fifty years has 
proved the benefits of this union; and no farmer who by the help of 
science has mastered but one of the old difficulties of his art that for 
all time have been tormenting the thoughtful with doubt and misleading 
everyone into a wasteful expenditure of labor or material,would willingly 
return to the days of pure empiricism. On the other hand, those who at- 
tempt to unfold the laws of production from considerations founded mere- 
ly in the pure sciences, without regard to, or knowledge of, the truths 
of practice, are sure to go astray and bring discredit on their efforts. 

Agriculture, i. e. field culture, not husbandry or farm management 
in the widest sense, is a natural science, and is based principally upon 
physics, chemistry, and physiology. 

By physics (natural philosophy) is meant the science of matter con- 
sidered in relation to those forces which act anion"; masses, or among 



120 LECTURES ON 

particles, (atoms,) in such a manner as not to alter their essential 
characters. 

The forces of cohesion, gravitation, heat, light, electricity, and 
magnetism, are physical forces. A thousand fragments of iron, for 
example, maybe made to cohere together or gravitate to the earth, may 
be changed in temperature, illuminated, electrified or magnetized, with- 
out any permanent change in that assemblage of properties which 
constitutes this metal. 

Chemistry is the science of chemical force or affinity, which causes 
two or more bodies to unite with the production of a compound pos- 
sessing essentially new characters. Thus a hard lump of quicklime 
when brought in contact with water greedily absorbs it, with the pro- 
duction of great heat, and falls to powder. In slacking, it has combined 
chemically with water. 

Physiology is the science of the processes of life, which require, in 
addition to the chemical and most of the physical forces, the co-opera- 
tion and superintendence of the vital principle. 

The first inquiries in the natural science of agriculture are: What 
is the plant? Out of what materials, and under what conditions is it 
formed ? 

The plant is the result of an organism, the germ, which under 
certain influences begins an independent life, and grows by con- 
structively adding to itself or assimilating surrounding matter. 

The simplest plant is a single cell, a microscopic vesicle of globular 
shape, which, after expanding to a certain size, usually produces 
another similar cell division either by lateral growth or by its own. 

In the chemist's laboratory it is constantly happening that, in the 
clearest solutions of salts, like the sulphates of soda and magnesia, 
a flocculent mould, sometimes red, sometimes green, most often 
white, is formed, which, under the microscope, is seen to be a vege- 
tation consisting of single cells. The yeast plant (fig. 1) is nothing more 
Fi §' L than a collection of such cells now 

existing singly, now connected in 
one line or variously branched. 

The cell is the type of all vege- 
tation. The most complex plant, a 
stalk of cane or an oak, is nothing 
more than an aggregation of myriads 
of such cells, very variously modi- 
fied indeed in shape and function, 
but still all referable to this simple typical form. 

In the same manner that the yeast plant enlarges by budding or 
splitting into new cells, so do all other plants increase in mass; and 
thus growth is simply the formation of new cells. 

So far as the studies of the vegetable physiologist enable us to 
judge, all vegetable cells consist, at least in the early stages of their 
existence, of an external, thin, but continuous (imperforate) membrane, 
the celt-wall, consisting of a substance called cellulose, and an interior 
lining membrane of slimy or half liquid character, variously called 
the protoplasm, the formative layer, or the primodlal utricle, (fig. 2.) 




AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 



121 




At one or several places, the formative 
layer is thickened to the so-called nucleus, 
(a fig. 2) the point from which growth 
and transformations proceed. Within 
the cell thus constructed exists a liquid, 
the cell-contents, from which, in course 
of time, solid cell contents of various 
character are found todevelope. 

In a chemical sense, not less than in a structural, the single globu- 
lar cell is the type of all vegetation. 

The outer wall of the cell is formed of that material which is 
itself the most abundant product of vegetable life, and which rep- 
resents an important group of bodies, that are familiar to all, as large 
ingredients of our daily food. 

The table wdiich here follows gives the names and the chemical 
formulae of what we may term the cellulose group or the vegetal 

CARBO-HYDRATES. 



^12 

c 12 
c 

12 



H, 



<>, 



(\ 



H, 



0, 
0, 



Cellulose 

Starch 

Inulin 

Dextrin 

Gum 

Cane sugar 

Fruit sugar 

Grape sugar 

Cellulose is the body already alluded to as constituting the material of 
the outer coating of the cells. It often accumulates in some parts of 
the plant by the thickening of the cell 
walls, thus forming the greater share 
of the wood (fig. 4) of trees and shrubs. 
Linen,hemp,(Bfig.3) and cotton (Afig. 
3)are nearly or quite pure cellulose. It 
exists largely in the stones or shells of r^ 
fruits and nuts. The so-called vege- \ | \ 
table ivory is chiefly a very compact 
form of cellulose. In general, this 
proximate organic element is the 
frame-work of the plant, and the 
material that gives toughness and 
solidity to its parts. 

Cellulose is characterized by its 
great indifference to most ordinary 
solvents. Water, alcohol, &c, do 
not dissolve it, and the stronger rea- 
gents of the chemist rarely take it 
up without occasioning essential 
changes in its constitution.* With 
strong nitric acid it yields nitre-eel- 




s' According to Pelouze, cellulose is dissolved by strong hydrochloric acid, and separates 
again in part (part is converted into sugar) on dilution. Schweitzer has recently made the 



122 



LECTURES ON 



Fig. 5. 




lulose or gun cotton. By the continued action of oxydizing agents 
it ]is converted into that series of brown bodies known under the 

name of Humus, or finally into 
oxalic and carbonic acid. 

Next to cellulose, starch (fig. 5) 
is the most abundant vegetable 
body. It usually occurs as micro- 
scopic grains, which for many spe- 
cies of plants possess a character- 
istic form and size, being some- 
times angular as in maize,but most 
often oval or spherical as in the 
other grains, the potato, &c. 

Starch is insoluble in and un- 
affected by cold water; in hot 
water it swells up and forms a 
translucent jelly, and in this 
state is employed for stiffening 
linen. 
Starch is always enclosed in the cells of the plant as seen in the ac- 
companying figure G, and is exceedingly 
abundant, existing not only in the grains 
and esculent roots, but also in the trunks 
of trees, especially the sago-palm, and 
throughout nearly the whole tissue of the 
higher orders of plants. 

Inulin closely resembles starch in 
many points, appearing to replace that 
body in the roots of the artichoke, elecam- 
pane, dahlia, dandelion, and other com- 
posite plants. It occurs in the form of small 
round transparent grains, which dissolve 
easily in boiling water, and mostly sepa- 
rate again as the water cools. Unlike 
starch, inulin exists in a liquid form in 
the roots above named, and separates in grains from the clear 
pressed juice when this is kept some time. The juice of the dahlia 
tuber becomes a semi-solid white mass in this way, after reposing 12 
hours from the separation of 8 per cent, of this interesting substance, 
( ' Bouchardat. ) 

Dextrin is a colorless transparent body, soluble in water, and 
it appears universally distributed in the juices of plants, though 
existing in but small amount compared with the previously de- 
scribed proximate principles. The solution of an impure and arti- 
ficially prepared dextrin, called British gum, is largely employed in 
calico printing, as a substitute for the more expensive natural gums, 
and closely resembles them in its adhesive properties. It is an un- 




interesting observation, that a solution of oxyd of copper in ammonia dissolves cellulose 
to a clear liquid, from which the cellulose may again be thrown down by an acid. 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 123 

portant ingredient of bread, being formed in the loaf by the process 
of baking, from the transformation of starch. 

Gum is a generic term, and includes a number of substances, as 
gum tragacanth, gum Arabic, gum Senegal, cherry gum, &c, which, 
though unlike in some respects, agree in composition, and have the 
property either of dissolving or swelling up in water with the forma- 
tion of an adhesive mucilage or paste. In the bread grains there is 
usually found a small quantity of gum soluble in water, and in meal 
from the seed of millet it has been observed to the amount of 10 
per cent. 

The sugars are so familiar that they scarcely require special notice. 
Cane sugar or sucrose is the intensely sweet soluble crystallizable 
principle found in the juice of the cane, maple, and sugar beet, It 
is found, besides, in many other plants. 

Fruit sugar or fructose is uncrystallizable, and exists in the juice 
of acid fruits, in honey and in the bread grains. 

Grape sugar or glucose is found solid and crystallized in dried fruits, 
especially in the grape. It gradually separates from honey as the 
latter candies. 

In the young cell this group of bodies is represented by cellulose, 
as the cell wall, and by dextrin and the sugars existing in its fluid 
contents. 

The machinery of the vegetable organism, which all the while 
operates as perfectly in the single cell as in the complex mass of cells, 
has the power to transform most if not all these bodies into every 
other one, and we find them all in every individual of the higher 
orders of plants — at least in some stage of its growth. From dex- 
trin, which is dissolved in the juice of a parent cell, is moulded the 
cellulose which envelopes a new cell. 

From starch, and perhaps cellulose in the stem of the maple, cane 
sugar is formed in the changeful temperature of spring, and, as the 
buds swell, this sugar is reorganized again into cellulose and starch. 
The analysis of the cereal grains oftentimes reveals the presence 
of dextrin, but no sugar or gum; while at other times the latter are 
found, but not the former. 

It is easy to imitate many of these transformations outside of the 
vegetable organism. By the agency of heat, acids, and ferments, 
either singly or jointly, we may effect a number of remarkable 
changes. 

Cellulose and starch are converted, first, into dextrin, and finally 
into grape sugar, by boiling with a dilute acid. In this way glucose 
is largely manufactured from potato starch, and has, in fact, been 
made from saw-dust. This transformation is also effected by the 
digestive apparatus of herbivorous animals, and in case of starch by 
a roasting or baking heat, So, too, in the sprouting of seed, the same 
changes occur, as exemplified in the preparation of malt. 

By heat and acids inulin is also converted into a kind of sugar, but 
without the intermediate formation of dextrin. The same is true of 
the gums. By these agencies cane sugar is converted into fruit 
sugar, and this spontaneously passes into grape sugar. 



124 LECTUBES ON 

Grape sugar is tbus seen to be the final product of the transfor- 
mation of the carbo-hydrates, either in the vessels of the chemist or 
in the digestive process of animals. It is the form in which the 
carbo-hydrates of the food pass into the blood, and, in consequence, 
it is a constant ingredient of the latter. 

It will be noticed that while physical and chemical agencies pro- 
duce these metamorphoses in one direction, it is only with the assist- 
ance of the vital principle that they can be accomplished in the 
reverse manner. 

In the laboratory we can only reduce from a higher, organized, or 
more complex constitution, to a lower and simpler one. In the vege- 
table cell, however, all these changes, and many more, take place 
with the greatest facility. 

The ready convertibility of one member of this group into another 
is to some extent explained by the identical or similar composition of 
these bodies. It will be observed by reference to the table that they 
are all composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 

That they contain carbon is made evident by their yielding charcoal 
when heated with imperfect access of air. When heated they also 
yield water, which, as all know, is a compound of oxygen and hydro- 
gen. 

Furthermore, several of these bodies contain the same proportions of 
these elements. The formulae of cellulose, starch, inulin, and dextrin 
are identical. The remaining compounds only differ by the elements 
of one or several atoms of water. 

The term carbo-hydrates (very convenient for our present purpose, 
though to the chemist absurd) was applied here because we may in 
a certain sense consider all these substances as hydrates of carbon. 
They are, in fact, composed of carbon and the elements of water. 

These bodies in their transformations have merely to undergo a 
rearrangement of atoms, just as the rearrangement of a few blocks 
enables the child to build a variety of toy-houses; or at most they 
need only lose or assume a few atoms of water — an omnipresent body, 
characterized by the facility with which it enters into all manner of 
combinations — and the work is accomplished. 

To furnish a more complete illustration of the typifying of all vege- 
tation by the single cell, and at the same time to extend our inquiry 
into the composition of the plant, we may now advert to the lining 
membrane of the cell-wall, or, as physiologists term it, the pro- 
toplasm, formative-layer, or primordial utricle. This consists 
chiefly of some body that differs in chemical composition from the 
group just described by containing, in addition to the three elements 
that form the carbo-hydrates, about 16 per cent, of a fourth element, 
nitrogen, and small quantities of sulphur, and perhaps sometimes 
phosphorus. 

The following table gives the names and percentage composition of 
the most important. 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 125 

Albuminoids or Nitrogenous Vegetal Principles. 

Carbon. Hydrogen. Oxygen. Nitrogen. Sulpliu. 

Vegetal albumin 54.8 7.3 21.1 15.9 0.9 

Vegetal fibrin, or gluten ■• • 54.0 7.2 22.3 15.7 0.7 
Vegetal casein 54.6 7.4 21.7 15.8 0.5 

These bodies differ considerably in certain characters, though 
their similarity in others is very strongly marked. In composition 
they are almost identical. From the difficulty of obtaining them in 
the pure state their precise composition is not definitely known. The 
figures in the table represent the mean results of the best analyses. 

The names albumin and casein originated from animal substances, 
and in fact we find in the animal kingdom a series of bodies corres- 
ponding almost perfectly with the vegetable nitrogenous principles. 

In the white of the egg, in the serum of blood, and in many diseased 
animal secretions, we meet with albumin which has the property of 
passing from its usual fluid condition into the solid form on the appli- 
cation of heat. It is said to coagulate. 

In the vegetable, albumin exists in much smaller relative quantity 
than in the animal; but it may be found in the juice of nearly all 
plants. If potatoes, turnips, or flour be digested for some time in 
water and the liquid then allowed to clear by settling, it contains a 
minute quantity of albumin in solution, as may be made evident by 
heating it, when a coagulum of this body separates. 

Casein is an ingredient of the milk of animals. Heat does not 
coagulate it, but acids have this effect. Cheese has casein for its 
characteristic constituent. 

In the seeds of leguminous plants, as the pea and bean; in the pea- 
nut and almond, this body exists very abundantly. 

If crushed peas are soaked some hours in warm water, to which a 
little ammonia is added, they yield casein to the liquid, and on the 
addition of an acid it is separated as a curdy matter like the casein 
of milk. In China a kind of cheese is thus largely manufactured. In 
smaller quantity casein is found in all the grains and seeds used as 
food. 

Gluten exists in wheat, and may be obtained by slowly washing a 
dough made from wheat flour, whereby the starch is removed and a 
glutinous mass remains which is the substance in question. As thus 
seen, it is mingled with more or less albumin and casein, as well as 
oil and starch. Gluten is the characteristic ingredient of those grains 
from the flour of which a light raised bread may be made. Liebig 
has given to gluten the name vegetable fibrin, from its analogies with 
the fibre of flesh or animal fibrin. 

The albuminoids, like the carbo-hydrates, are easily susceptible 
of mutual* transformation. In the animal the casein of milk or beans, 
the albumin of eggs or of vegetables, and gluten, are converted first 
into albumin and liquid fibrin in the shape of blood, and afterward 
into the solid flesh. So, too, in the plant, similar changes, without 
doubt, occur. 

To some extent these conversions may take place outside the or- 
ganism. If, for example, animal fibrin be exposed with water to the 



126 



LECTURES ON 



Fig. 7. 





air for some days in a warm place, it disappears or dissolves; if now 

the liquid be heated to near boiling, a 
coagulum separates, having all the char- 
acters of albumin. After removing the 
albumin, the addition of an acid causes 
another coagulation, separating a body 
^)C)^jClDCZy^l % * na * a » rees i n ^ s properties with casein. 
n^flM/]fiyyyii/lfti!M,yMfl c As has been already stated, the albu- 
minoid bodies form the lining membrane 
of the young cell and are diffused in the 
dissolved state throughout its liquid con- 
tents. In those parts of the plant where 
these bodies accumulate, they are found 
nearly filling entire cells and series of cells. 

(e, fig. 7.) 

According to Hartig (Entwickelungsgeschichte des Planzen Keims) 

the albuminoids exist in the seed in an organized form, usually in 

grains that are scarcely to be dis- 
tinguished from starch by the eye, 
(A, fig. 8) often, however, in per- 
fect polyhedral crystals. (Fig. 8, 
B and C.) This aleuron, as Hartig 
terms it, is not a pure albuminoid; 
according to an analysis made 



from material prepared by him, 
it contains but 9.4G per cent, of 
nitrogen. The aleuron grains dur- 
ing the life of the plant suffer 
metamorphosis into starch and 
other organized matters, of course 
undergoing radical chemical chan- 
ges at the same time. 
While the two great classes of organic proximate elements, just 
considered, make up the larger share of vegetation, and suffice to 
show in the most beautiful manner how the single cell represents 
the whole plant, both structurally and chemically, we should stop 
short of the object of these lectures did we not consider some other 
vegetal principles of great importance both to the vegetable and ani- 
mal economy, which agree with the cellulose group in consisting only 
of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, but differ again from the carbo-hy- 
drates in the fact that their hydrogen and oxygen are not in the pro- 
portions to form water. 

We may notice these substances under three divisions, viz: 
Pectose and its derivatives. 
The vegetal acids. 
The oils and fats. 

The lactose group includes pectose, pectin, pectosic, and pectic 
acids. These bodies exist principally in fleshy fruits and berries, 
and in the roots of the turnip, beet, and carrot. They are an important 
part of the food of men and domestic animals. 

Pectose is the designation of a body which occurs with cellulose in 






AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. . 127 

the flesh of unripe fruits, and of the roots just mentioned. Its prop- 
erties in the pure state are quite unknown, since we have no method 
of separating it from the associated cellulose. Nearly the entire mass 
of green fruits and of these roots consists of pectose, which is rec- 
ognized to be a special organic body by the products which it yields 
when submitted, either naturally or artificially, to the action of vari- 
ous chemical or physical agents. 

Pectin is prepared from pectose in a way analogous to that by which 
cellulose or starch yields dextrin, viz: by the action of heat, acids, and 
ferments. When the fruits or roots that contain pectose are subjected 
to the action of gentle heat and an acid, the cellulose they contain is 
more or less changed into dextrin and sugar, and at the same time tho 
firm pectose begins to soften, and in a little time becomes soluble in 
water, being converted into pectin. In the baking or roasting of apples 
and pears, and in the boiling of turnips and beets, it is precisely this 
transformation that occttrs. When fruit ripens, either on the tree or, 
as happens with winter apples and pears, after being gathered, the 
same metamorphosis takes place. The hard pectose, under the influ- 
ence of the acid (or ferment) that exists in greater or less quantity 
in the fruits, gradually softens and passes into pectin. If the clear 
juice of ripe pears be mixed with alcohol the pectin, which cannot 
dissolve in the latter liquid, is separated as a stringy gelatinous mass, 
that, on drying, remains as a white body, easily reducible to a fine white 
powder. The concentrated solution of pectin in water has a viscid 
or gummy consistence as seen in the juice that exudes from baked 
apples. 

Under the further action of heat, acids, and ferments, pectin itself 
undergoes other transformations. We shall only notice its conver- 
sion into pectosic and pectic acids. These bodies, chiefly the first, 
together with sugar and flavoring matter, compose the delicious fruit 
jellies, which, as is well known, are prepared by gently heating for 
some time the expressed juice of strawberries and raspberries, or the 
juice obtained by stewing apples, pears, grapes, currants, gooseberries, 
plums, &c. They are both insoluble in cold water, and remain sus- 
pended in it as a gelatinous mass. Pectosic acid is soluble in boiling 
water, and hence most fruit jellies become liquid when heated to 212°. 
On cooling, its solution gelatinizes again. Pectic acid is insoluble 
even in boiling water. It is also formed when the pulp of fruits or 
roots containing pectose is acted upon by alkalies or by ammonia- 
oxyd of copper. This reagent (which dissolves cellulose) converts 
pectose directly into pectic acid that remains in insoluble combina- 
tion with oxyd of copper. 

Our knowledge of the composition of the bodies of the pectose 
group is very imperfect, from the difficulty or impossibility of pre- 
paring them in a state of purity. Below is a table of their composi- 
tion according to the most recent investigations: 

Pectose Unknown. 

Pectin C 32 H 20 23 + 4 HO. 

Pectosic acid C 39 IL 28 -f- 3 HO. 

Pecticacid C 32 IL O.B+2HO. 



128 LECTURES ON 

From the best analyses, and from analogy with cellulose, it is prob- 
able that pectose has the same composition as pectin, or, like the 
pectic and pectosic acids, differs from it only by one or more equiva- 
lents of water. This relatedness of composition assists us here, as in 
case of the preceding groups of organic principles, to comprehend, in 
some measure, the ease with which the transformations of these bodies 
are effected. 

It will be perceived, by a glance at the composition of the pectose 
group, that their oxygen exceeds the quantity necessary to form water 
with their hydrogens by eight equivalents. 

The vegetal acids are exceedingly numerous. They are found in all 
classes of plants, and nearly every family in the vegetable kingdom 
has one or more acids peculiar to itself. 

Those we shall now notice are few in number, but of almost uni- 
versal distribution. They are oxalic, tartaric, citric, and malic acids. 
In plants they never occur in the free or pur« state, but always com- 
bined with lime, potash, ammonia, &c. They are most often accumu- 
lated in large quantity in fruits. 

Oxalic acid exists largely in the common sorrel, and, according to 
the best observers, is found in greater or less quantity in nearly all 
plants. The pure acid presents itself in the form of colorless bril- 
liant transparent crystals not unlike Epsom salts in appearance, but 
having an intensely sour taste. It is prepared for commerce by sub- 
jecting starch or cane and grape sugar to rapid oxydation, generally 
by means of nitric acid. Salt of sorrel, employed to remove ink- 
stains from cloth and leather, is an oxalate of potash and water. 

Tartaric acid is especially abundant in the grape, from the juice of 
which during fermentation it is deposited in combination with potash, 
as anjol, which, by purification, yields the cream of tartar of com- 
merce. Tartaric acid, when pure, occurs in large glass} r crystals very 
sour to the taste. It has recently been observed by Liebig as one of 
the products of the artificial oxydation by nitric acid, of the peculiar 
sugar found in milk, and is also probably a result of the oxydation of 
gum by the same reagent. 

Malic acid is the chief sour principle of apples, currants, gooseber- 
ries, and many other fruits. It exists in large quantity in the garden 
rhubarb, in the berries of the mountain ash and barberry, and in the 
leaves of the beet and tobacco plants. 

Citric acid is most abundant in the juice of the lemon, lime, and 
cranberry. 

All these acids usually occur together in our ordinary fruits, and in 
some cases it is certain that they are converted the one into another 
during the development of the plant. 

Their composition is expressed in the following table: 

Oxalic acid C 4 6 -f 2 HO. 

Malic acid C s H 4 8 + 2 HO. 

Tartaric acid C s H 4 0^+2 HO. 

Citric acid C 12 H 5 O u + 3 HO. 

The vegetal acids exert an important influence in the plant as 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 129 

well as in the food of animals, by effecting the transformation of cel- 
lulose and starch into dextrin and sugar, and of pectose into pectin. 

In all plants, and in nearly all parts of plants, we find some fixed 
oil, fat (or wax;) but it is chiefly in certain seeds that the} 7 occur 
most abundantly. Thus the seeds of maize, oats, hemp, flax (fig. If), 
colza, cotton, pea-nut, beech, almond, sunflower, &c, contain from 
G to 70 per cent, of oil, which may be in great part removed by 
pressure. In some plants, as the African palm and the Nicaraguan 
tallow-tree, the oil is solid at ordinary temperatures, while many 
plants yield small quantities of wax, which either coats their leaves 
or forms a "bloom" upon their fruit. The oils differ exceedingly in 
taste, odor, and consistency, as well as in their chemical composition. 
They all contain much carbon, and less oxygen than is requisite to 
form water with their hydrogen. 

The oil or fat of plants appears to be, in many cases, a product of 
the transformation of starch or other member of the cellulose group, 
for the oily seeds when immature contain starch, which vanishes as 
they ripen, and in the sugar-cane the quantity of wax is always 
largest when the sugar is least abundant, and vice versa. 

It has long been known that the brain and nervous tissue of ani- 
mals contain several oils of which phosphorus is an essential ingredi- 
ent. Recently Knop has discovered that the sugar-pea yields a sim- 
ilar oil containing 1.25 per cent, of phosphorus, in addition to carbon, 
hydrogen, and oxygen. 

The bodies to which attention has thus been briefly directed, con- 
stitute by far the larger share of the solid matter not only of the 
young cell but of all vegetation. They comprise, nearly all, those 
vegetable substances which are employed as food or otherwise pos- 
sess any considerable s^ricultural significance. The numberless acids, 
alkaloids, resins, volatile oils, coloring matters, and other principles 
existing in small quantity in the vegetable world, are unimportant to 
our present purpose. 

We find under the microscope that certain of these bodies have an 
organized structure; such are cellulose, starch, inulin, and gluten, 
(aleuron of Hartig;) while others, as dextrin, gum, sugar, albumin, 
and casein, are the products of the disorganization of those above 
mentioned — the structureless materials, out of which the organized 
portions of the plant renew themselves. 

To return to the cell. As the life of the plant progresses, not only 
does the form of the cell greatly change in many cases, but it under- 
goes very marked internal transformations. The liquid that fills the 
young cell contains both dextrin and albumin ; from the former is 
elaborated the walls of new cells, or else the existing cells are filled 
up more or less completely with some solid carbo-hydrate resulting 
from the transformation of dextrin. Thus in the potato tuber the 
cells are almost entirety occupied with starch. In the stem of trees 
the cells are lengthened and thickened by the continuous deposit of 
cellulose with other ill-defined bodies, and the result is wood. In 
the seeds of the cereal grains and numerous other plants we find the 
cells densely crowded, (hence polyhedral in figure.) and filled with 
9 



ISO LECTURES ON 

starch and gluten, the latter often crystallized. In leguminous seeds 
q accumulates; while in the exterior portions of most seeds occur 
cells containing, in addition to these bodies, numerous droplets of 
fixed oil.— (See the figures already given.) Some cells are largely 
occupied with coloring matter, which is green in leaves, red. yellow, 
&c, in petals. In many cells we meet with crystals of salts; some are 
ounds of vegetal acids with lime and magnesia: others are phos- 
phates and sulphates. 

In every plant, and in each cell, there may he found, by chemical 
analysis, though generally not by the microscope alone, a certain, 
never-failing content of mineral matters, which remains as ash when 
the vegetable is burned. The ashes of all agricultural plants contain 
the following mineral matters, to which in the table are appended 
their chemical symbols: 

Ingredients of the ash of plants. 

m 7 . (Potash KO 

^"«s \ Soda Xa 

, 77 7 . , 7 (Lime Ca 

Alkaline earths, j Magnesia Mg 

, r , -,-,. , ( Oxvd of iron Fe„ 0, 

he oxyas • ■< ^ * ■, ,. „„„„„„ at,," r> 

I Oxyd ot manganese Jln 3 U 4 

Carbonic - C0 2 

Sulphuric S0 3 

Phosphoric P0 5 

__ Silicic Si 3 

Chlorine % - CI. 

These matters taken together form but a small part of the plant — 
lly from one to five per cent, of its weight — yet they are indis- 
pensable to its development, as is evident from their constant presence, 
and as has been likewise proved by the most careful and extended 
synthetic experiments. Without the co-operation of all these earthy 
and saline matters it is impossible for plants of the higher orders to 
develop themselves. 

The Prince Salm Horstmar, of Brunswick, has made the function of 
the mineral food of the plant the subject of a most extended and 
laborious investigation. In experiments with the oat he found that 
when silica was absent from the soil, everything else being supplied, 
the plant remained smooth, pale, dwarfed, and prostrate. 

Without lime the plant died in the second leaf. 

Without potash or soda it reached a height of but three inches. 

Without magnesia it was very weak and prostrate. 

Without ph. - acid it remained very weak, but erect and of 

normal figure, bearing fruit. 

Without sulphuric acid it was still weaker: was erect and of normal 
figure, but without fruit. 

Without iron it was very pale, weak, and disproportioned. 

Without manganese it did not attain perfect development, and bore 
but few flowers. 



< 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 131 

Other experiments proved that eJdorine is essential to the growth 
of wheat. 

Wiegmann and Polstorff found that when seeds of cress (Lepidium 
sativum) were sown in minced platinum wire, contained in a platinum 
crucible, and moistened with distilled water, the experiment being 
conducted under a glass shade, out of reach of dust, they germinated 
and grew naturally during twenty-six days, when, having reached a 
height of three inches, they began to turn yellow and to die down. 
On burning the plants thus produced, their ash was found to weigh 
exactly as much as was obtained from a number of seeds equal to that 
sown. Prince Salm Horstmar found that oats grown with addition 
of fixed mineral matters (ash ingredients) only, gave four times the 
mass of vegetable matter that was obtained when these were withheld. 

The plant, as we have seen, is an assemblage of cells, which are 
situated in more or less close contact with each other. The plants 
that consist of but a few cells, like yeast, simply lie or float in the 
medium in which they are naturally found. Agricultural plants, how- 
ever, and the higher orders generally, possess roots, whose functions 
are performed underground, and stems, leaves, and flowers, that exist 
in the air. 

The yeast plant finds its food in the fermenting solution, and the 
cells have a power of absorbing their nutriment out of this solution. 

Marine plants wholly immersed in the ocean abstract their food 
from the sea water. 

The higher land plants' derive the materials from which their cells 
are multiplied, partly from the soil, by their roots, and partly from the 
atmosphere, by their foliage. 

In the living plant, then, there is provision for the access of liquids 
into the cells from without, and for the transmission of the same from 
one end of the plant to the other, or in any direction: for if we plant 
a seed in pure sand mingled with ashes and duly watered, we shall 
find in a few weeks that a plant has resulted containing in every por- 
tion of it carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen, which could only have been 
derived from the atmosphere, and also saline and earthy matters, which 
must have been imbibed from the ashes and carried upward to the 
points of its branches and leaves. 

The young cell, though its wall reveals no perforation to the most 
powerful magnifier, is porous: and though the older cells, which form 
the cuticle of a somewhat developed plant, are often impermeable to 
water and air. from the fact that they are indurated or glazed by the 
formation of a corky or waxy coating, yet the young cells that are 
continually forming at the extremities of the advancing rootlets, and 
those of the still fresh leaves, are highly porous, and no more oppose 
resistance to the passage of water or of air than does a sieve. 

We have only to immerse the roots of a vigorous plant in a solution 
colored with some harmless pigment, and in a short time we can trace 
its diffusion throughout the plant. 

If liquids thus easily permeate these tissues, there is every reason 
to suppose that they may admit the vastly more subtle particles of a 
gas: and of this we have abundant experimental evidence, as will be 
set forth bye and bve. 



132 LECTURES ON 

LECTURE II. 

THE ATMOSPHEEE AND WATER IN THEIR RELATIONS TO VEGETABLE LIFE. 

In the former lecture we have seen that the plant is a collection of 
cells, and the residence of an organizing up-building agency— the 
vital principle. We have seen that the cells, are composed of, or 
occupied with, carbo-hydrates, albuminoids, fats, and salts. The 
structure of the plant admits the entrance of gases and liquids, and 
their diffusion throughout its mass. 

We are now prepared to inquire what are the materials employed 
by the plant in its development — what is the food of vegetation ? 

A seed sown in a moist sand may grow into a perfect plant, and 
produce a hundred new seeds, each as large and complete as the first, 
although the sand, the water, and the air, which only can have 
nourished the plant, contain no traces of cellulose or starch, of al- 
bumen or oil. 

These proximate elements of vegetation are then obviously con- 
structed by the plant out of other forms or combinations of matter 
belonging to the mineral world, and to be sought in the atmosphere, 
in water, and in the soil. 

Of the entire mass of the plant, but a small portion is derived from 
the soil, ninety-five to ninety-nine per cent, of it coming originally 
from the atmosphere. 

The general composition of the pure and dry atmosphere, according 
to the most reliable data is, by weight, as follows: (To the names of 
the ingredients are appended their chemical symbols.) 

Oxygen, 23. 18 

Nitrogen, N 7G.82 



100.00 



Besides the above ingredients, whose proportion is very constant, 
there occur in it the following substances in more variable quantity: 

Water, (as vapor,) HO, average 1-htmdredth. 

Carbonic acid, C0 2 , average 6 ten-thousandths. 

Ammonia, NH 3 , average 23 billionths. 

Nitric acid, N0 5 ? 

Carburetted hydrogen, CH ? 

Nitrous oxyd NO ? 

Let us now inquire with reference to each of these substances, 
how is it related to the nourishment of the plant ? A number of ex- 
ceedingly ingenious experiments have been instituted from time to 
time for the purpose of throwing light on this subject, and we are 
thus fortunately able to present it in a quite satisfactory manner. 

As to oxygen, we have no evidence that it directly feeds the plant, 
or is assimilated, so as to increase the mass of its organic matter. 
On the contrary, plants when growing exhale oxygen, separating it 
from the carbon and hydrogen of their proper food. 

The nresence of oxygen in the atmosphere is, however, in many 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 



133 



ways, essential to the perfection of the plant; for in its absence seeds 
cannot germinate, flowers cannot yield fruit, and fruits cannot ripen. 
In germination the larger bulk of the seed, the cotyledons, by the 
absorption of oxygen, are disorganized and converted into structure- 
less and soluble bodies, which become the food of the smaller part of 
the seed, the embryo, and by its vital operations are again organized 
as the young plant. In the process of flowering, matters stored in 
organized form in other parts of the plant are transported to the 
blossom to serve for its rapid development. The flower itself cannot 
absorb food from without; and in the transformation of the already 
elaborated food from the stem and leaves of the plant into the new 
forms required by the flowers, oxygen plays an essential part. The 
reawakening of life in the tree at spring time, and the ripening of 
fruits, are accompanied with changes of a similar character, and from 
them result many oxydized products. Vegetable physiologists have 
furnished microscopic evidence that similar alternations of the orga- 
nizing and disorganizing processes take place in the individual cells, 
so that we are warranted in assuming that oxygen (whether that of 
the free atmosphere or that evolved in the cells themselves is in- 
different) plays an important and unceasing part in the development 
of vegetation. 

Nitrogen in the free state also appears to be incapable of direct 
assimilation. Within a few years the subject has been studied by 
various investigators, but with contradictory results. Ville, of Paris, 
in 1853, published a volume describing his experiments, which led to 
the conclusion already arrived at by Priestley, in 1779, viz: that 
nitrogen is assimilated. Other investigators, however, by means of 
trials carried out under conditions less complicated and more adapted 
to yield reliable evidence, have uniformly been conducted to the 
opposite view. 

Especially to Boussingault do we owe a most careful investigation of 
this question. His plan of experi- Fig. 9. 

ment was simply to cause plants 
to grow in circumstances where, 
every other condition of develop- 
ment being supplied, the only source 
of nitrogen at their command, be- 
sides that contained in the seed it- 
self, should be the free nitrogen of 
the atmosphere. For this purpose 
he prepared a soil consisting of 
pumice stone and the ashes of clover, 
freed by heat and acid from all 
compounds of nitrogen. This soil 
he placed at the bottom of a large 
glass globe, (see figure 9,) of 15 to 
UO gallons capacity. Seeds of cress 
or of other plants were deposited in] 
the soil, and pure water supplied to' 
them. After germination, a small 
glass vessel (D) filled with carbonic acid (to supply carbon) was secured 




134 LECTURES ON 

air-tight to the mouth of the large globe, and, the apparatus being 
disposed in a suitably lighted place, was left to itself until the plants 
began to turn yellow and show signs of decay. Then they were re- 
moved, separated from the soil, and, by chemical analysis, the amount 
of nitrogen in them was ascertained. It was found in every instance 
(the experiment being several times repeated) that the nitrogen in the 
plants thus raised was no more than that contained in the seed from 
which they had grown. Our ingenious countryman, Dr. Evan Pugh, 
now president of the Farmers' College of Pennsylvania, while resi- 
dent in England a few years since, made an elaborate investigation 
of this subject, with results confirming those of Boussingault. 

So tar from the external free nitrogen being assimilated, it appears, 
especially from the researches of Dr. Draper, of New York, that 
plants constantly evolve this substance in the gaseous form; al- 
though, according to the investigations of linger and Knop, made 
more recently, and with more exact methods, the nitrogen found by 
various observers in the exhaled air of plants comes only from the 
atmospheric air absorbed by them. 

It thus appears that the two gases which, together, make up 
ninety-nine per cent, or more of the atmosphere, do not constitute 
in any way the direct food of vegetation. It is, in fact, in the small 
quantity of other and somewhat variable ingredients that we must 
look for the atmospheric nutriment of the vegetable kingdom. 

Water in the vaporized form we find never absent from the air, 
and it is especially abundant in the warm period of the year when 
vegetation is active. Its presence is made evident by its deposition 
in the states of dew, fog, rain, and snow, when the temperature of 
the atmosphere is reduced. 

It has been universally taught that the watery vapor which is thus 
in perpetual contact with the leaves of plants is readily and largely 
absorbed by them. According to Unger and Duchartre, however, it 
is never imbibed by foliage in even the slightest degree. On the 
contrary, under all circumstances there occurs a constant loss of water 
by evaporation from the leaves, which does not wholly cease even 
when they are confined in an atmosphere saturated with moisture. 
Duchartre admits that liquid water in contact with the leaves is 
slightly absorbed; but it would appear that the root is the organ of 
absorption for water, and that the soil must perform the function of 
supplying this indispensable body to the plant. 

It has long been known that water is absorbed by the roots in 
large quantity, and exhaled through the leaves into the atmosphere. 
The well-known trials of Hales prove this. He found, in one in- 
stance, that a single cabbage exhaled 25 ounces of water in 24 hours. 
We owe to Mr. Lawes, of Rothamstead, England, a series of experi- 
ments on the transpiration of water through wheat, barley, beans, 
peas, and clover, continued throughout nearly the whole period of the 
growth of these plants. The result was, that for every grain of solid 
matter added to the mass of the plant 150 to 270 grains of water 
passed through it. Prom these, and especially from very recent in- 
vestigations of Knop and Sachs, it is seen that the transpiration is 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 135 

very variable, as might be anticipated. It takes place most rapidly in 
a dry, warm air, but is not absolutely cheeked when the atmosphere 
is saturated with moisture. Transpiration is remarkably diminished 
by the presence of many soluble salts, and of the alkalies, in the water 
of the soil; while free acids increase its rapidity and amount. 

As is well known, water is a compound of hydrogen and oxygen; 
although we have no direct evidence, the inference is fully warranted 
that a portion of the water which enters the plant by the roots is 
arrested in its upward path, to become itself a part of the tissues. 
It is either held in the form of hygroscopic moisture, or is united 
chemically to carbon; or, finally, it is decomposed, its hydrogen being- 
retained, and its oxygen eliminated wholly or in part. In fact, wo 
must regard water as the chief source of the hydrogen which is a com- 
ponent of almost every vegetable principle. 

Carbonic acid is a compound of carbon and oxygen. It exists in 
immense quantities in solid combination with lime in the various mar- 
bles, limestones and marls, and in chalk. Separated from these bodies 
by pouring on them sulphuric or nitric acid, it may be collected as a 
gas, which, unrecognizable by the other senses, is agreeably sour to 
the taste; is two and a. half times heavier than common air, and con- 
siderably soluble in water. This gas is never absent from the air, and 
although it occurs there in relatively small quantity, its absolute 
amount is so great that, taking the atmosphere up to its entire height, 
we have no less than seven tons of carbonic acid over every acre of 
surface. 

A plant confined in an atmosphere free from this gas cannot enlarge 
itself.* Some plants will live and grow in a confined space, as for 
example, sealed up in a bottle ; but in this case the carbonic acid con-^ 
sumed by the growing parts of the plant is supplied by the decay of 
the lower leaves. 

Priestly and Saussure long ago furnished experimental evidence 
that carbonic acid is absorbed by growing plants, and Boussingault 
has described the following illustration of the rapidity with which the 
gas is imbibed by the foliage of vegetation. Into one of the orifices 
in a three-necked glass globe he introduced the branch of a living- 
vine bearing twenty leaves ; with another opening he connected an 
apparatus by means of which a slow current of air, containing a small, 
accurately known proportion of carbonic acid could be passed into the 
globe. This air after streaming over the vine leaves, escaped by the 
third neck into an arrangement for collecting and weighing the car- 
bonic acid that remained in it. The experiment being set in process 
in the sun-light, it was found that the enclosed foliage removed from 
the current of air three-fourths of the carbonic acid it at first con- 
tained. 

The absorption of the gas in question by the leaves is found to take 
place only under the influence of the light of the sun, or of the accom- 
panying chemical rays. Through the roots, carbonic acid, when held 
in solution of water, may be absorbed at all times. 

8 Unless, indeed, as is probable, carburetted hydrogen may, to a small extent, be an actual 
source of carbon to plants, a point not yet satisfactorily determined. 



136 LECTURES ON 

It is, however, only in the sun-light, and with many plants (accord- 
ing to the recent researches of Corenwinder) only in direct sun-light 
that carbonic acid or, more properly, carbon is assimilated. We have 
already alluded to the fact that oxygen is exhaled by the plant. This 
oxygen comes from the decomposition of carbonic acid (and water) in 
the interior of the plant. The vegetable cell aided by the sun has 
the power of separating the elements of this compound with the great- 
est ease, and it retains the carbon to add to its structure while the 
oxygen escapes entirely or in part into the general atmosphere. 

As already mentioned, however, oxygen itself, under certain circum- 
stances, more particularly at certain stages of vegetable development, 
is absorbed; and as a consequence of this and at just the same time, 
carbonic acid is evolved. This separation of carbonic acid may be 
observed in all young plants (still depending upon the disorganization 
of the parent seed) when situated in the shade ; and some plants exhale 
it at all periods of their growth when not exposed to direct sun-light. 

All plants exhale carbonic acid during the night or in the entire 
absence of sun-light; but the amount of this gas that is absorbed and 
decomposed by day vastly exceeds that evolved by night. In fact, 
one hour or half hour of direct sunshine enables it to absorb and de- 
compose more than has escaped from it in a whole night. 

Carbonic acid gas is unquestionably the chief source of the carbon 
of agricultural plants. Some writers, with Liebig, consider it to be 
practically the exclusive means of supplying this element. Others, 
after Saussure and Mulder, regard the slightly soluble compounds re- 
resulting from the decay of vegetable matter (humus) in the soil, as 
capable of directly supplying a portion of carbon to a new generation 
of plants. While there is perhaps no satisfactory evidence that humus 
is entirely excluded from immediately nourishing vegetation, it is plain 
from considerations founded in the growth of forests and prairie grasses 
that the atmosphere, and indeed carbonic acid is now entitled to rank 
as the great storehouse of carbon for this purpose, as once, before 
humus existed, it must have betrn the exclusive source of this element. 

From what has been already remarked with regard to the compo- 
sition of the vegetable carbo-hydrates, it is seen that a certain general 
theoretical view of their formation in the plant may be at once gath- 
ered from the facts now set forth. In order to form the members of 
the cellulose group, it is only needful that the carbon retained by the 
cells from the carbonic acid which they decompose so readily, should 
enter into union with a due amount of the water that perpetually streams 
upward through them. By the elimination of a portion of oxygen 
from the water itself, we have remaining the elements that form the 
fats and fixed oils. To yield the vegetable acids and the pectose 
group, it suffices that a portion of oxygen be retained or be reabsorbed. 
These considerations are purely hypothetical, yet, although the real 
processes of decomposition and organization are in many cases vastly 
more complex, they possess great interest in a survey of the economy 
of vegetation. 

For the elaboration of the albuminoids, a source of nitrogen must be 
present to the plant. This essential element is supplied, so far as the 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 137 

atmosphere is concerned, almost entirely in the form of ammonia. 
This substance, familiar under the common name of hartshorn or spirits 
of hartshorn, is a compound of nitrogen and hydrogen, and is charac- 
terized by its alkaline or basic properties, having a caustic burning- 
taste and uniting with avidity to acids, forming a large class of salts. 

In the atmosphere, in presence of an excess of carbonic acid, it 
cannot occur in the free state, but always exists as bicarbonate of 
ammonia, the same form in which it usually constitutes ''salt of harts- 
horn" or "smelling salts." 

Bicarbonate of ammonia may not only occur in the solid state as a 
white powder, but also readily assumes the condition of a gas, as is 
evident from the volatile pungency of smelling salts. It is readily 
dissolved to a very great extent by water ; but as readily evaporates 
from solution again, leaving the water almost entirely free from it. 
For this reason its amount in the atmosphere is so variable and so 
small, it being removed by every shower of rain or deposition of dew 
and again restored by warmth and wind, or such causes as favor 
vaporization. 

In fact it is not by examining the air itself that we gain any ade- 
quate idea of the amount of ammonia it may furnish to vegetation. 
"We must rather look to the atmospheric waters, to dews, rains, and 
fogs, in order to estimate this matter rightly. In rain water (the entire 
fall) the quantity of ammonia is also quite variable, ranging in the 
country from 4 to 19 parts in ten millions: while in the rain falling in 
cities a 10 times larger amount has been observed. — (Boussingault, 
Bineau, and Way.) 

In the first portions of rain or in slight showers, as Avell as in fog 
and dew, the proportion of ammonia is considerably larger. Thus, in 
the first 10th of a slow falling rain, Boussingault found 6G parts in 
10 million of water; in dew, he found 62, and in fog 72, and in one 
extraordinary instance 497 parts of ammonia in 10 million of water. 

Way has determined the entire amount of ammonia contained in 
the rain water that fell during the years 1855 and 1856 at Rotham- 
stead, 20 miles from Linden. He found that the water which fell on 
an acre of surface contained in 1855, 7.11 pounds, and in 1856, 9.53 
pounds of ammonia. 

The evidence that ammonia is capable of absorption and assimila- 
tion by the plant is as various as it is conclusive. Numerous field ex- 
periments made with artificial ammonia-compounds, as well as the 
fact that all animal manures in the very process of decay, whereby 
they appear first to acquire their full activity, yield this body in 
abundance — practically establish the point; nor are there wanting 
more precise investigations. 

Ville especially, also Chlebodarow, have shown that the addition 
of ammonia to the ordinary atmosphere, as well as watering with its 
dilute solution greatly increases the mass of vegetation produced, 
and makes the same much richer in albuminoids. Ville has intro- 
duced the use of ammonia into conservatories with quite striking 
effect, diffusing into the air of the green-house from two to four 10- 
thousandths of its weight of carbonate of ammonia by placing a lump 
of this salt upon the steam pipes that supply the space with heat. 



138 



LECTURES ON 



Nitric acid, the well-known compound of nitrogen and oxygen, oc- 
curs in the atmosphere in very minute quantity, usually in the form 
of nitrate of ammonia, This body being incapable of existing in 
vapor, and readily soluble in water, is brought to the earth in dews 
and rains. Its quantity is even more minute than that of ammonia. 
The most trustworthy estimations are those of Way, who found in the 
waters that fell upon an acre at Rothamsteacl, in 1855, 2.98 pounds, 
and in that of 1856, 2.80 pounds of nitric acid, or about one part of 
nitric acid to two million parts of water. 

In the soil, nitric acid often occurs in considerable quantity, (the 
result of chemical processes which we shall presently notice.) Here it 
exists in combination with various bases, usually as nitrates of lime, 
soda, and potash. The fertility of soils in which nitrates accumu- 
late, and the remarkable effects of their application as fertilizers, are 
evidence that nitric acid feeds vegetation. 

It is again to Boussingault 
that we owe the more careful 
study of its effects. Among 
other experiments he made 
the following : Two seeds 
of Hdianthus argophyllus were 
planted in each of three pots, 
the soil of which, consisting 
of a mixture of brick-dust and 
8jj|sand, as well as the pots them- 
selves, had been thoroughly 
freed from all nitrogenous com- 
pounds by ignition and washing 
with distilled water. To the soil 
of the pot A, fig. 10, nothing was 
added save the two seeds, and 
distilled water, with which all 
the plants were watered from 
time to time. With the soil of 
pot C (fig. 1 2) were incorporated 
small quantities of phosphate 
of lime, of ashes of clover and 
bicarbonate of potash, in or- 
der that the plants growing 
in it might have an abundant 
supply of all the mineral mat- 
ters they needed. Finally, the 
soil of pot B, fig. 11, received 
the same mineral matters as 
pot C, and in addition, a small 
quantity of nitric acid as ni- 
trate of potash. The seeds 
were sown on the 5th of July, and on the 30th September, the 
plants had the relative size and appearance seen in the figures, re- 
d uced to one-sixth of the natural dimensions. 




AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 139 

This striking experiment demonstrates that nitric acid directly 
serves to supply nitrogen to plants. In fact, it appears to equal 
ammonia in its assimilability. 

Liebig was formerly of the opinion that ammonia was the only form 
in which vegetation could be supplied with nitrogen, and that nitric 
acid was not appropriated by the plant until after it had become con- 
verted into ammonia in the soil. We know that under the influence 
of certain bodies having strong affinities for oxygen, nitric acid is 
transformed into ammonia, hydrogen displacing oxygen. This change 
was supposed to occur in the soil by virtue of the action of the car- 
bonaceous matters (humus) there present. Now, while this may 
actually happen under certain circumstances, it is well ascertained 
that the soil and natural waters more generally contain nitrates than 
salts of ammonia, and the actual conversion of ammonia into nitrates 
in the soil has been experimentally traced. 

The presence of nitrous oxyd in the atmosphere is not as yet directly 
proved, from want of a proper method of detecting it when forming 
but a small proportion of a gaseous mixture; but Krhop has shown the 
probability of its occurrence there, and has proved that it may serve 
as a source of nitrogen to plants. What may be its significance in the 
actual nourishment of vegetation remains to be determined. 

The important questions now arise, what are the sources of the 
water, carbonic acid, ammonia, and nitric acid, that exist in the atmos- 
phere ? are these minute quantities liable to exhaustion ? are they 
sufficient to supply vegetation with carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen? 

The time was — so the reasonings of geology convince us — when the 
soil, having scarcely cooled down from a state of fusion by fire, could 
contain no carbon, or at least no nitrogen, in a form capable of feeding 
plants. Consequently, at this period all the nitrogen, and by far the 
larger share of the carbon, destined to aid the growth of plants must 
have existed in the air: and although processes subsequently came 
into operation Avhereby portions of these substances were incorporated 
with the soil, the final result of natural operations is to restore them 
in great part to the atmosphere. 

The effect of oxygen, as manifested in the processes of decay, com- 
bustion, and animal nutrition, is to bring down the vegetable organism 
to the inorganic level — to convert the carbo-hydrates, the albuminoids 
and other proximate principles of vegetation, into carbonic acid, water, 
ammonia, and nitric acid, the very materials out of which, under the 
influence of the vital principle, they were constructed. 

These three varieties of chemical disorganization, which were par- 
allel with the vital up-building of vegetation, deserve a 'somewhat 
extended notice. 

Decay is a general term expressing the wasting or destruction of 
organic bodies under the influence of warmth, oxygen, and water. 

The carbo-hydrates, when perfectly pure and dry, may be preserved 
indefinitely without undergoing any change. This we know in the 
case of cellulose, (cotton, paper,) sugar, starch, &c. In presence of 
a certain amount of water, and exposed to the air at a warm tempera- 
ture, they undergo change; which, in case of cellulose, is very slow, 



140 LECTURES ON 

in sugar is more rapid. The oils in the pure state, as well as the 
organic acids, are extremely slow in alteration. The albuminoids, 
also, when dry may be kept at ordinary temperatures for an indefinite 
time with no symptoms of change. If, however, they be exposed to 
warm air in the moist state, they speedily undergo the process of 
putrefaction; they decay with great rapidity, and with the production 
of volatile bodies having a most intense and noisome odor. 

The albuminoids are highly complex in their chemical composition; 
their atoms are, so to speak, delicately poised, and in a condition 
of unstable equilibrium, and, for this reason, liable to easy disturbance 
by any external agency. Hence, they at once break up into several 
less complex and more stable compounds when heat and oxygen act 
upon them with the intervention of water. Not only so, but in their 
fall they entangle the carbo-hydrates, the oils, the acids, and in fact 
all the organic constituents of the plant. In this way the soluble 
albuminoids act as ferments. Sugar dissolved in water is slow to 
change, until a decaying albuminoid, furnished by yeast, be added, 
Avhen it is rapidly transformed into alcohol or acetic acid and carbonic 
acid. Butter, if carefully made, keeps sweet a long time ; but if the 
casein of the milk be not thoroughly removed, it speedily becomes 
rancid, when air and warmth act upon it. 

It is possible that the carbo-hydrates, if they could be absolutely 
separated and protected from matter containing nitrogen, would be 
found capable of perpetual preservation, even in contact with water, 
for in the presence of a minute quantity of some metallic salt, or other 
body that makes insoluble (inactive) compounds with the albuminoids, 
they do remain unaffected for long periods. Thus wood, which, though 
chiefly consisting of cellulose or other non-nitrogenous bodies, is not 
free from albumin, when exposed to the weather — i. e., to oxygen, 
water, and warmth — undergoes that form of slow decay known as 
mouldering or humifaction, the immediate visible result of which is 
vegetable mould or humus. If, however, the wood be first saturated 
with corrosive sublimate (kyanized) or blue vitrol, it resists decay for 
a long time. 

As it happens naturally, with very few exceptions, the organic 
matter of vegetation, or of animals that have subsisted upon and 
been formed from vegetation, falling upon the surface of the earth or 
buried a little way beneath it, find just the conditions of decay; and 
their nitrogenized ingredients yielding first to the sway of oxygen, 
involve with them the whole organism, so that nothing but their 
mineral matters, which are already oxyds, escape the destruction. 

The process of decay, thus sketched in outline, includes, however, 
numberless intermediate stages. Thus wood in its decay yields a 
large series of bodies which have the collective name of humus, but 
are distinguished into several groups, as the humic acids, ulmic acids, 
and geic acids, the latter comprising crenic and apocrenic acids. These 
bodies all differ from wood, out of which they originated, by containing 
much less hydrogen and oxygen compared to carbon. We can, in fact, 
trace the gradual removal of these elements up to a certain point, after 
which other products arise from the simple oxydation of those first 



AGRICULTUKAL CHEMISTRY. 141 

formed. The fact that hydrogen is more susceptible of oxydation than 
carbon, to a certain extent explains the production of these bodies. 

In the decay of sugar under the action of ferments there appears 
in an analogous manner a series of intermediate bodies, which differ 
in character according to the circumstances under which the fermen- 
tation is conducted. 

The intermediate products of the decay of vegetable matters, wood, 
&c, accumulate in large masses, especially where submersion in water 
cuts off the free access of oxygen and keeps the temperature reduced. 
In this way the peat of swamps and bogs is formed, and the immense 
coal beds now buried in the rock strata of the earth are doubtless 
nothing but the peat of a former geological epoch altered in its 
character by further chemical agencies. 

The final products of complete decay are universally the same, 
whatever may be the intervening stages. The carbon of organic 
bodies is oxydized to carbonic acid. The hydrogen is mainly converted 
into water. Nitrogen unites more or less with hydrogen, forming am- 
monia: in part, however, it escapes in the free state. Sulphur and phos- 
phorus arc converted into sulphuric and phosphoric acids. The fixed 
mineral matters remain. 

Combustion, or burning, is likewise a process of oxydation. It 
differs from decay in the rapidity with which it occurs, and in the 
different intermediate products that result; but otherwise it is the 
same, its final issues being identical with those of decay. Combus- 
tion may, in fact, be called a quick decay, as decay has been termed 
by Liebig, a slow burning — ercmecausis. It is easy to illustrate, by 
simple experiments, the formation of water, carbonic acid, and am- 
monia in the burning of organic substances. 

When burning non-nitrogenous bodies, as the wax and cotton of a 
lighted taper, are looked upon, under ordinary circumstances, we 
gain the impression, indeed, that the) r themselves waste away, but 
we perceive no result of the fire except light and heat. If, how- 
ever, an inverted dry glass bottle be lowered over the flame, and 
held so for a time, a mist presently gathers on its interior walls, and 
after a little drops of a liquid may be collected which are pure water. 
The bottle still being kept in the same position, we shortly see the 
flame becoming smaller, and its light dimmer, making it evident that 
something in the air which feeds the flame is being exhausted from 
the limited space that surrounds it. If, now, the bottle be removed, 
and have a little clear lime-water agitated in it. there will at once be 
formed a copious precipitate, as the chemist technically designates it, 
of carbonate of lime, the lime-water having served to make the in- 
visible carbonic acid that resulted from the union of atmospheric 
oxygen with the carbon of the Avax, evident to the sense of sight. 

During the combustion of a nitrogenous body, in addition to water and 
carbonic acid, we may detect ammonia. Thus, if the smoke of a cigar be 
puffed against moist turmeric paper, (paper saturated with the yellow 
coloring principle of the turmeric or curcuma root, which is turned 
brown by alkalies,) the change of color at once shows the presence of 
ammonia. This body is always found in the soot of chimneys, where 



142 LECTURES ON 

wood is burned. It is collected, too, in great qualities in the gas- 
works of large cities, being formed from the nitrogen of the bitumin- 
ous coal which is distilled and imperfectly burned in the gas retorts. 
The common name, spirits of hartshorn, originated in the fact of the 
preparation of this substance from the horn of deer, (hart.) 

When combustion goes on with full access of oxygen a good deal 
of nitrogen escapes in the free state, the hydrogen it might unite 
with to "form ammonia being chiefly appropriated by the more active 
oxygen. In proportion as the burning proceeds with a limited sup- 
ply of oxygen, and at a lower temperature, more ammonia is proba- 
bly formed. In presence of a fixed alkali, as potash, soda, or lime, 
all the nitrogen of organic bodies may be converted into ammonia; 
and it is by an ingenious use of this fact that the chemist is enabled 
to determine with the greatest ease and accuracy the proportions of 
nitrogen which organic bodies contain. 

As in decay, so in combustion, it easily happens that numerous in- 
termediate products occur, especially when the supply of oxygen is 
deficient. The oil, tar, smoke, and soot of ordinary fires are ex- 
amples. All these substances, however, by access of more oxygen 
at the proper temperature, may be fully consumed into the same final 
products as mentioned under decay. The mineral matters of organic 
bodies remain in this process as ashes. 

The third means of restoring to the gaseous state the elements so- 
lidified by vegetation is found in the results of the animal functions, 
viz: in nutrition and respiration. 

The non-nitrogenous food of animals, consisting always of the vege- 
table carbo-hydrates, oils, &c, or of certain products of their trans- 
formation, are chiefly burned in the body by the oxygen that the 
lungs inhale, and the carbonic acid and water thus formed are 
thrown out of the system with the exhaled air. If one breathes 
through a tube into a glass bottle, the deposition of moisture proves 
the existence of water in the expired air; and by forcing the breath 
through lime-water the formation of the white precipitate of carbo- 
nate of lime reveals the presence of carbonic acid. 

The lungs and the skin, which also constantly throw off the same 
substances by perspiration, are the agencies whereby the gaseous 
products of the oxydation of the food are restored to the atmosphere. 
The kidneys and lower intestines remove a portion of the waste; the 
former in the liquid, the latter in the solid form. A small part of 
the nitrogen, of which animals require constant supplies in their 
nutriment, is exhaled as ammonia from the lungs and skin; but as 
the caustic characters possessed by this body, even when in combi- 
nation with carbonic acid, would not be compatible with its copious 
separation in the gaseous form, we must look to the liquid or solid 
dejections for the excretion of nitrogen. In animals we find that the 
kidneys dispose of this element. In the blood of man and quadru- 
peds there may be detected a substance which the kidneys collect 
and discharge from the body in large quantities through the urine. 
This substance, from its occurrence, is termed urea. When pure, it 
is a colorless or white body that may be procured in beautiful crys- 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 143 

tals, and has a not unpleasant saline taste. In a state of purity its 
solution in water may be kept indefinitely without change; but in 
presence of a ferment, (an oxydizing albuminoid,) with which it is 
always naturally associated, it speedily undergoes decomposition; and 
by simply involving a certain amount of water in its change falls into 
the same substances which we have so often referred to as among the 
termini of vegetable and animal disorganization, viz: carbonic acid 
and ammonia. The following scheme illustrates this change: 

One atom urea — C 2 N 2 H 4 2 

Two atoms water — H, 0„ 

Sum = C 2 N, H 6 0~ 

Equal to — 

Two atoms carbonic acid = C 2 4 

Two atoms ammonia — N„ EL 

Sum = C 2 N 2 H 6 4 

Besides urea there occurs in the urine of man, and in large quan- 
tity in that of herbivorous animals, a body containing nitrogen which 
bears the name Mppuric acid. In the urine of carnivorous animals, 
and especially in the solid urine of birds and reptiles, is found uric 
acid. Both these substances readily undergo conversion into carbo- 
nate of ammonia. 

In the solid excrement of animals are found other bodies contain- 
ing nitrogen, which by decay shortly restore the same to the atmos- 
phere. 

The processes we have thus briefly noticed do not, as already inti- 
mated, fully and immediately change the organized matter of vegeta- 
bles and animals back again into the substances which, according to 
our present knowledge, are to be regarded as the food of the plant. 
In the immense coal beds of former epochs and in the vast deposits 
of peat and sunken drift-wood that are now accumulating in marshes 
and river deltas, an enormous quantity of carbon and of nitrogen too, 
is, so far as the historical age is concerned, permanently set aside from 
the great circulation of matter. 

What is of more agricultural importance, a large amount of nitro- 
gen escapes in the free state into the atmosphere, and thus becomes 
lost to the stapes of- nutriment for plants. But there are other re- 
sources provided in nature's economy to maintain the requisite equi- 
librium. 

The numerous volcanoes from which the smoke of central fires is 
perpetually escaping, pour daily into the atmosphere vast volumes of 
carbonic acid and not a little ammonia. In many regions, not in the 
usual sense volcanic, the earth is full of fissures that give forth un- 
ceasing streams of these gases. In the district of the Eifel, on the west- 
ern shore of the Rhine, it has been estimated that 100,000 tons of 
carbonic acid are annually thrown into the atmosphere. 

But the principal means of resupplying carbonic acid and ammonia 
consists in the combustion of the coal and peat that represent the 



144 LECTURES ON 

vegetation of former times, or, indeed, of pre-Adamite epochs. It 
it is calculated that the carbonic acid yearly produced by the consump- 
tion of bituminous and anthracite coals in Great Britain amounts to 
fifty millions of tons, a quantity capable of supplying carbon to seven- 
eighths of all the cultivated crops of that country. 

"The deficit of nitrogen-compounds is made up in part by electrical 
discharges in the atmosphere. Cavendish was the first to notice that 
the electric spark causes nitrogen and oxygen, in a state of mixture, 
to combine into nitric acid. In accordance with this observation, it 
is found that the rain which falls during thunder storms contains more 
nitric acid than at other times. Although in our latitude the amount 
of plant food thus formed may be very trifling, it is possibly other- 
wise in tropical regions, where, according to the testimony of trav- 
ellers, the rumbling of thunder may be heard at any hour of the day 
during a considerable portion of the year. 

The conversion of free nitrogen into ammonia is not known to take 
place in the atmosphere, nor are we certain that it is accomplished in 
the soil. It has, indeed, been asserted by Hermann and Mulder that, 
during the decay of wood, hydrogen is evolved, which, at the mo- 
ment of liberation, unites itself to nitrogen with the production of 
ammonia, but the experiments on which this assumption was based 
do not now appear to be worthy of confidence. 

In the soil, however, there does occur a constant formation of nitric 
acid, especially where lime or other alkaline bodies are present that 
may combine with it. It appears, indeed, that the greater share of 
this nitric acid results from the oxydation of the nitrogen of organic 
debris, but it is probable that the free atmospheric nitrogen is, to 
some extent, involved. 

"When electrical discharges are made to pass through the air or 
through pure oxygen gas, the latter shortly acquires entirely new 
properties. The most remarkable change it undergoes consists in its 
obtaining a powerful and peculiar odor, the same which is so often 
perceived near where lightning has struck. The oxygen, thus modi- 
fied, is found to be capable of much more rapid and intense action 
upon other bodies than is exerted by ordinary oxygen. It at once 
oxydizes ammonia to nitric acid and water, and also, in presence of 
an alkali or lime, unites direct with free nitrogen producing a nitrate. 
Oxygen thus altered, and intensified in its affinities, is termed ozone 
or active oxygen, and not only is it produced by electricity, but like- 
wise by certain processes of oxydation. When phosphorus slowly 
oxydizes in the air, when the oils of turpentine and bitter almonds 
are exposed to the atmosphere for a time, the same ozonization oc- 
curs. Schoenbein, to whose assiduous researches we owe these highly 
interesting facts, is of the opinion that all instances of nitrification 
are due to the action of ozone. Although we are not as yet able to 
make a probable estimate of the amount of free nitrogen that is thus 
oxydized in any given time, or to form any notion of the quantitative 
importance of the effects of this agent, we have the satisfaction of 
standing on a threshold which promises us an entrance into the full 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 145 

understanding of the processes by which the element nitrogen is 
made assimilable to vegetation. 

Within a few years numerous investigations relative to this subject 
have been made. Luca has observed that when air (freed from am- 
monia) is passed through a solution of potash, nitrate of potash is 
formed, in case the air has been in previous contact with the foliage 
of plants, but not otherwise; thus indicating that the oxygen is ozon- 
ized by the oxydations going on in or about living vegetation (espe- 
cially when ethereal oils are exhaled ?) and, according to Pless and 
Pierre, ozone is also produced in the decay of the organic matters of 
the soil. 

If, as thus appears probable, it is the case that the very existence 
of living plants, and certain later stages of their destruction by 
decay, are means of recombining nitrogen to an extent equal to or 
slightly greater than that to which this element is placed beyond the 
reach of vegetable assimilation in the earlier steps of organic decom- 
position, we see that the vegetable germ carries with it, so far as this 
element is concerned, the possibility of an almost unlimited, reproduc- 
tion or expansion. 

Allusion has already been made to the possibility of the occurrence 
of nitrous oxide in the atmosphere, but we have as yet no positive 
evidence of the fact. 

Having thus shown the origin of the compounds out of which, for the 
most part, the plant organizes itself, and explained, so far as the 
present state of science allows, how the supplies that are continually 
being consumed are as continually maintained, we now come properly 
to consider the question, Are the atmospheric stores sufficient for the 
purposes of vegetation ? 

To this inquiry we must undoubtedly reply, that while the quantity 
of carbonic acid absolutely contained in the atmosphere is so large as 
to feed an abundant vegetation, it being experimentally shown that 
some plants are able to grow well with none other than the ordinary 
atmospheric supplies, it appears that a concentration of this substance 
in the vicinity of the absorbing organs not only develops, but is essen- 
tial to the intense growth which characterizes agricultural production. 

Liebig and others have instanced forests and prairies as proving the 
sufficiency of the atmosphere in this respect, for, say they, under the 
occupancy of trees and grasses the soil is constantly enriched in car- 
bon drawn from the atmosphere by these plants and annually deposited 
upon the soil as fallen foliage. In our view, however, the fact that a 
forest does not come into its most vigorous growth before the soil has 
been covered with decaying leaves, proves that the general atmos- 
phere is insufficient, not indeed in the amount, but in the rapidity of 
its provision, and that an atmosphere more highly charged than usual 
with the products of vegetable decay, near or in the soil, is essential 
to the full supply of carbonic acid. The same doctrine must obtain 
with reference to the other forms of plant-food. It is, in fact, needful 
that the soil become a medium for the condensation and more speedy 
transmission into the plant of the originally purely atmospheric sup- 
plies. We shall recur to this subject in subsequent pages. 
10 



146 



LECTURES ON 



Fig. 13. 




Closing here our study of the atmosphere considered as a source of 
the food of plants, we still need to remark somewhat upon the physi- 
cal properties of gases in relation to vegetable life; so far, at least, as 
may give some idea of the means by which they gain access into the 
plant. 

Whenever two or more gases are brought into contact in a confined 
space, they instantly begin to intermingle, and continue so to do until, 
in a short time, they are each equally diffused throughout the room 
they occupy or pass into a condition of osmotic equilibrium. If two 
vessels, one filled with carbonic acid, the other with hydrogen, be con- 
nected by a tube no wider than a straw, and be placed so that the heavy 
carbonic acid is below the fifteen times lighter hy- 
drogen, we shall find after the lapse of a few hours 
that the two bodies are in a state of uniform mix- 
ture. On closer study of this phenomenon it has 
been discovered that gases diffuse with a rapidity 
proportioned to their lightness. Hence, by inter- 
posing a porous membrane between two gases of 
unequal density, the lighter passing more rapidly 
into the denser than the latter into the former, the 
space on one side of the membrane is overfilled 
while the other side is partially emptied of gas. 
This fact is taken advantage of for the visible illus- 
tration of the fact of gaseous diffusion. 

In the accompanying figure 13 is represented a long 
glass tube b widened above into a funnel, and having 
cemented upon this an inverted cylindrical cup of 
unglazed porcelain a. The funnel rests in a round 
aperture made in the horizontal arm of the support 
while the tube below dips beneath the surface of 
some water contained in the wine glass. The porous 
cup, funnel, and tube being occupied with common 
air, a glass bell c is filled with hydrogen gas and 
placed over the cup as shown in the figure. In- 
stantly bubbles begin to escape rapidly from the 
bottom of the tube through the water of the wine 
glass, thus demonstrating that hydrogen passes into 
the cup faster than air can escape outward through its pores. If the 
bell be removed, the cup is at once bathed again externally in common 
air, the light hydrogen floating instantly upward, and now the water 
begins to rise in the tube in consequence of the return to the outer 
atmosphere of the hydrogen which before had diffused into the cup. 
It is the perpetual action of this diffusive, or, as it is scientifically 
termed, osmotic tendency, which maintains the atmosphere in a state 
of such uniform mixture that accurate analyses of it give for oxygen 
and nitrogen almost identical figures, at all times of the day, at all 
seasons, all altitudes, and all situations, except near the central sur- 
face of large bodies of still water. Here the fact that oxygen is more 
largely absorbed by water than nitrogen diminishes by a minute amount 
the usual proportion of the former gas. 




AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 147 

If into a limited volume of several gases be placed a body in the 
solid or liquid form, which is capable of uniting with chemically, or 
otherwise destroying the gaseous condition of one of the gases, it will 
at once absorb those particles of this gas which lie in its immediate 
vicinity and thus disturb the osmotic equilibrium of the remaining 
mixture. This equilibrium is at once restored by diffusion of a por- 
tion of the unabsorbed gas into the space that has been deprived of 
it and thus the absorption and the diffusion keep pace with each other 
until all the absorbable air is removed from the gaseous mixture and 
condensed or fixed in the absorbent. 

In this manner a portion of the atmosphere enclosed in a large 
glass vessel may be perfectly freed from watery vapor and carbonic 
acid by a small fragment of caustic potash. A piece of phosphorus 
will in a few hours absorb all its oxygen, and an ignited mass of the 
rare metal titanium will remove its nitrogen. 

A few words will now suffice to apply these facts to the absorption 
of the nutritive gases by vegetation. 

The cells of plants are permeable to gases, as is especially manifest 
from what has been stated regarding the separation or evaporation of 
gaseous water from leaves. They too, or some portions of their con- 
tents, absorb or condense carbonic acid and ammonia in a similar way, 
or at least with the same effect as potash absorbs carbonic acid. As 
fast as these bodies are removed from the atmosphere surrounding or 
occupying the cells, so fast they are re-supplied by diffusion from 
without ; so that although the quantities of gaseous plant-food con- 
tained in the air are, relatively considered, very small, they are by 
this grand natural law made to flow in continuous streams toward 
every growing vegetable cell. 



LECTURE III. 

THE SOIL AS RELATED TO AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. 

No agricultural plant flourishes naturally except its roots are sit- 
uated in a soil. The soil is that upon which the farmer spends his 
labor; the atmosphere, the weather, he cannot control. His art 
enables him, however, so to modify and adapt the soil that all the 
deficiencies of the atmosphere or the vicissitudes of climate cannot 
deprive him of a reward for his exertions. 

The soil has a two-fold function. In the first instance, it forms the 
appropriate support and home of the plant, is its birthplace, the 
station where it runs through all the stages of i£s development, and 
the protection beneath which its roots or seeds survive the desolation 
of winter to gladden every spring-time with renewed growth. In the 
second place, it is the exclusive source of an indispensable part of the 
food of all agricultural plants, and the medium through which another 
larger share of their nutriment is accumulated and presented to them. 

In nature we observe a vast variety of soils, which often differ as 
much in their fertility as they do in their appearance. We find large 



148 LECTURES ON 

tracts of country covered with barren, drifting sands, on whose arid 
bosom only a few stunted pines or shrivelled grasses find nourish- 
ment. Again there occur in the highlands of Scotland, Bavaria. 
Prussia, and other temperate countries, enormous stretches of moor- 
land, bearing a nearly useless growth of heath or moss. In Southern 
Russia occurs a vast tract, two hundred millions of acres in extent, 
of the tschornosem, or black earth, which is remarkable for its extra- 
ordinary and persistent fertility. The prairies of our own west, the 
bottom lands of the Scioto and other rivers of Ohio, are other ex- 
amples of peculiar soils; while on every farm, almost, may be found 
numerous gradations from clay to sand, from vegetable mould to 
o- r avel gradations in color, consistence, composition, and produc- 
tiveness. 

Some consideration of the origin of soils is adapted to assist in 
understanding the reasons of their fertility. Geological studies give 
us reasons to believe that what is now soil was once, in chief part, 
solid rock. We find in nearly all soils fragments of rock, recogniza- 
ble as such by the eye, and by help of the microscope it is often easy 
to perceive that those portions of the soil which are impalpable to 
the feel are only minuter grains of the same rock. 

We have space for only the merest general outline of what was 
probably the original condition of the earth, and of the successive 
'changes that have wrought it to its present state. During the lapse 
of the uncounted ages that have been forming our globe, rocks have 
been ground to soil, and soil has been recemented into rock, and to- 
day the same transformations are slowly and silently proceeding. 
When the earth first cooled down from the primal heat, it had no 
soil, in the proper sense of that word, but was a mass of crystalline 
granitic rocks and volcanic scoria?, incapable of supporting vegeta- 
tion. When the vapors condensed upon its surface, began that strife 
between fire and water which, under the mild forms we call weather, 
has never since ceased. Rains then began to fall upon the mountain 
wrinkles produced by the contraction of the cooling crust. Streams 
flowed downward into the valleys, cracking the still hot rock, whirling- 
fragments along in their courses until they settled as gravel, sand, or 
finer powder to the bottom of some quiet sea, or were dissolved in 
boiling wells. In later epochs vegetation began to flourish; then, 
after slow centuries had passed, animal life was set in process; each 
department of organized existence, in its own way, adding to the list 
of changes. From the first the atmospheric oxygen was omnipresent, 
and carbonic acid too, began to act upon the rocks; and as the result 
of the solvent, decomposing, breaking-up, and commingling course of 
operations, thus carried on through long periods of continual action, 
we have the soil in its present characters and aspects. 

The mechanical force of running water has been among the most 
effective agencies in the pulverization of rocks. During what is 
termed the diluvial or drift period, a current of water passed from 
north to south over the northern portion of this continent, wearing 
down the rocks, and bearing with it an enormous mass of solid matters, 
which now remain as then deposited, constituting gravelly hills, and 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 149 

soils which are filled with pebbles or boulders, that were then 
rounded and polished in their transit from distant nothern latitudes. 

Since the opening of the human epoch, lesser local floods in the 
waters of rivers have made numberless so-called alluvial deposits 
(river bottoms and deltas) in like manner. 

Changes of temperature, especially the alternate freezing and thaw- 
ing of water, exercise great influence in the pulverization of rocks. 
Water, as is well known, expands with great force in the act of freez- 
ing, and by insinuating itself while liquid into the fine cleavage rifts 
of rocks, and there congealing, breaks asunder the particles. The 
dense limestone of the Jura formation, as found in polished nodules 
in the soil near Munich, in Bavaria, if moistened with water and ex- 
posed to frost a single night is so disintegrated that, as the ice melts, 
it yields a water tuibicl with the loosened atoms of rock. 

Oxygen exerts a perpetual disintegrating effect, by uniting with 
the protoxyd of iron, which occurs in nearly all rocks, setting free 
the acids and bases before in combination with it, and yielding 
peroxyd of iron. Sulphid (sulphuret) of iron is an exceedingly 
abundant ingredient of rocks, and, under the influence of oxygen, is 
readily converted into soluble sulphate of iron — a product which, in 
turn, reacts upon other constituents of rocks to dissolve or alter them. 
Carbonic acid, especially in conjunction with water, dissolves or com- 
bines with the alkalies and earths existing in rocks, and thus destroys 
their integrity and causes them to crumble away to soil. 

The composition and chemical characters of soils depend upon the 
kind of rock or rocks from which they originate. A glance at the 
nature of these will therefore be of service to us. As to chemical 
ingredients, we find that the most abundant and widely diffused are 
precisely those which are found in the ash of plants. They mostly 
occur in certain definite combinations, and form the minerals, quartz, 
feldspar, hornblende, augite, mica, serpentine, kaolin, zeolite, carbo- 
nate of lime, carbonate of magnesia, and numerous others of less im- 
portance. The composition of specimens of these minerals is given 
in the annexed table. They occur, however, in very numerous varie- 
ties, and vary greatly in the kind as well as proportions of their in- 
gredients.* It is seen from the table that many of them contain 
nearly all the inorganic ingredients of plants. 

e This fact may appear to stand in contradiction to the statement above made that these 
minerals are definite combinations. In the infancy of mineralogy great perplexity arose from 
the numberless varieties of minerals that were found — varieties that agreed together in cer- 
tain characteristics, but widely differed in others. In 1830, Mitscherlich, a Prussian phi- 
losopher, discovered that a number of the elementary bodies are capable of replacing each 
other in combination, from the fact of their natural crystalline form being identical; they 
being, as he termed it, isomorphous, or of like shape. Thus, magnesia, lime, protoxyd of iron, 
and protoxyd of manganese; potash, soda; silica, and alumina may replace each other in 
such a way as to greatly affect the composition without altering the constitution of a 
mineral. Of the mineral hornblende, for example, there are known a great number of 
varieties ; some pure white in color, containing, in addition to silica, magnesia and lime ; 
others pale green, a small portion of magnesia being replaced by protoxyd of iron ; others 
black, containing alumina in place of a portion of silica, and with oxides of iron and man- 
ganese in large proportion. All these minerals, however, admit of one expression of their 
constitution, for the amount of oxygen in the bases, no matter what they are, or what their 
proportions, bears a constant relation to the oxygen of the silica (and alumina) they con- 
tain, the ratio being 4 : 9. 



150 



LECTURES ON 









V 


cm 


oc 


T 




cc 


r~ 








a 












o 


DC 


(M 




s 


a 
















(0 

■o 


ci 


t~ 






S 


f 








00 








a 


O 


























-C 




























O 






















3 
o 
a 




— 




























V 


■* 


o 


a 






© 








to 








en 


c 


a 























cc 


t- 








— 








o> 










TT> 


T) 
























rt 




























55 
























>. 




c*> 

© 


ie 


if 










pi 




r~ 




° 




r^ 


*t 


c 


O 








w 




w> 




c 




r~ 


" 














































e-i 


























e 




© 
oo 


o 






© 










o 

© 




3 




cc 


i- 






C) 










CO 




n 




■d« 


.-5 




















14 


























« 


























g 




o 


a 


ir 


M 








e 


c 


© 








U-. 


© 


o 


a 










cc 


<r» 




- 




ei 


pj ; 


c 


i 










e 






p, 




"W 
















































yj 


























u 




O 


t 


IS 


B 






« 














a> 


n 


o 








c 












& 




o 


•o 


e 








cc 












3 




it* 




c 




















< 




























V 
























































c 




v 


e 


rf 


-r 






0! 




m 








<1> 




c> 




B 


l» 






If 




.r. 








s 




ci 


05 





R 






— 




O 








B 




T 




















































c 




























= 
































O 


r~ 




c 






<- 




m 


CO 








o 


CC 




r- 


5 




c 




tc 


to 




o 




e 


C 




if 


ir 




a 




c 






s 


























rt 






C3 






CC 
















O. 




5 








^ 
















id 




■o 


r 






cc 




















to 
























£ 




























*-^ 




o 


m 


'- 


IT 


C 






c 










O. 




1- 


a 


C 


ci 





1- 




« 










13 




C5 


K 


<M 


c 




ac 




c 














to 


CI 






















<L> 




























fc 
































o 
o 












































; < 


> 






















• e 


E 
1 


'. z 
























• c 


- 


























. e 


p 


























z 










































C 




: 


! 




; i 


: t 


1 

e 


5 t 










B 


£ 


E 


> £ 


o | 


i 


c 


- ! 


> 1 


] 2 










£ 


< 




1 c^ 


> c 


1 B 


; 


i c 


! £ 





AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 151 

These minerals, while they make up the chief bulk of rocks or of 
the soil, are always associated with minute quantities of other com- 
pounds, such as phosphates, chlorids, sulphates, or bodies yielding 
sulphates, <fcc., upon which the geologist scarcely bestows attention, 
which are, however, for the scientific agriculturist of great moment. 
In consequence of this wise provision and of the beneficent inter- 
mingling of the fragments of rock from widely distant regions, during 
the drift period and by alluvial agencies, it has resulted that, almost 
everywhere, there exist in the soil all those mineral bodies which are 
found in plants. Some one has been, indeed, so impressed with the 
universality of the distribution of each elementary form of matter as 
to offer the opinion that all the sixty simple bodies which constitute 
the globe might be found in every handful of soil or cup of water 
existing on its surface did we but possess sufficiently delicate tests. 

It sometimes happens, indeed, that where a soil is in place, i. e., 
has not been transported, but lies covering the rock from which it 
has been formed, it is very poor and supports only a sparse vegeta- 
tion, or, perhaps, is totally naked and destitute of all organic life. 
But these instances are comparatively rare, and their infertility is 
more often due to want of water, or some external cause, than to the 
absolute deficiency of those ingredients which are needful in a pro- 
ductive soil. 

It often happens that a close connexion exists between the rock 
and the overlying soil; as often, however, the one serves as no indi- 
cation to the value of the other. 

The mechanical analysis of any soil separates it into portions of 
different fineness. A coarse sieve removes gravel, consisting of the 
larger fragments of rock ; a finer one, coarse sand; by washing with 
water, fine sand is left, while the turbid washings deposit after a time 
a quantity of impalpable matter which may consist in part of the 
exceedingly fine particles of rock, and in part of clay, or it may be 
entirely formed of the latter. 

In most inferior soils the gravel and sand, when abundant, are an- 
gular fragments of quartz, feldspar, hornblende, augite, and mica, or 
of rocks consisting of these minerals. It is only these harder and 
less easily decomposable minerals that can resist the pulverizing 
agencies through which a large share of our soils have passed. In 
the more fertile soils, formed from secondary limestones and slates, 
the fragments of these stratified rocks occur as flattened pebbles and 
rounded grains. 

The fine joortion of the soil bears, either in quantity or composition, 
the most direct relation to its fertility. It is this which is capable of 
yielding to the growing plant the food it requires. The coarser parts 
of the soil are a vast store of materials in reserve for the distant fu- 
ture, since, by their slow disintegration, they themselves gradually 
become so comminuted as to serve the wants of vegetation. 

Clay, which is almost invariably a chief part of the impalpable 
matter of the soil, has been marked by us as a mineral, and its general 
composition indicated in the table (p. 150.) It is a product of the 
action of water and carbonic acid upon such minerals as feldspar, 
mica, hornblende, and augite. Under the influence of these agents, 



152 LECTURES ON 

the silicates of alumina and potash, lime, &c, yield carbonates of 
potash, lime, &c, which dissolve and wash away, while a silicate of 
alumina and water, mingled with free silica, and mechanically retain- 
ing more or less of the other substances remains, and this is clay. 

"When formed from feldspar alone it is often pure white in color, 
and bears the name kaolin. This, the purest form of clay, is the 
material which constitutes the basis of porcelain. In mines, excavated 
through feldspathic rocks, nothing is more common than to find masses 
of the whitest kaolin in the fissures or cavities, which give a down- 
ward passage to the percolating water. The clay of ordinary soils, 
is, however, a material greatly admixed with other substances, and 
therefore exceedingly different and variable in its composition, and 
all the better adapted by this for its agricultural applications. 

Many soils contain much carbonate of lime in an impalpable form, 
having been derived chiefly from the mechanical wearing down of 
lime rocks, as marble and chalk — from the shells of mollusks or coral 
branches, or, finally, being clays that have originated by the chemi- 
cal decomposition of feldspathic rocks containing much lime. 

Organic matter, especially the debris of former vegetation, is 
almost never absent from the impalpable portion of the soil, existing 
there in some of the many forms assumed by the Protean humus. 

From consideration of the relative proportions of the principal me- 
chanical ingredients has chiefly arisen the customary classification and 
nomenclature of soils. Silicious sand (grains of quartz, feldspar, &c.) 
and clay make up the chief proportion of many soils. The mixture 
of the two forms a loam which may be sandy (light) or clayey (heavy.) 
A further division is into loamy sand and loamy clay. When, in ad- 
dition to these, lime is present the soil is said to be a marl, either 
sandy, clayey, loamy, &c, according to the relative quantities of the 
ingredients. 

Soils containing organic matter to the amount of 5 to 10 per cent, 
are termed vegetable moulds; if this ingredient exceeds 10 percent., 
which rarely occurs, except in wet situations, we have & peaty soil. 

If coarse rounded fragments of rock be present in large quantity 
the soil is gravelly. Where much oxyd of iron exists, as evinced by 
a red or yellow color, the soil is ochery. The epithets peaty, gravelly, 
ochery, come then, in man}- cases, to further modify the designations 
of sands, clays, marls, and moulds. 

Other divisions are current among practical men, as, for example, 
surface and sub-soil, active and inert soil, tilth, and hard pan. These 
terms mostly explain themselves. When, at the depth of four inches 
to one foot or more, the soil assumes a different color and texture, 
these distinctions have meaning. The surface soil, active soil, or 
tilth, is the portion that is wrought by the instruments of tillage — 
that which is moistened by the rains, warmed by the sun, permeated 
by the atmosphere, in which the plant extends its roots, gathers its 
soil food, and which, by the decay of the subterranean organs of 
vegetation, acquires a content of humus. Where the soil originally 
had the same characters to a great depth, it often becomes modified 
down to a certain point, by the agencies just enumerated, in such a 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 153 

manner that the eye at once makes the distinction into surface-soil and 
sub -soil. In many soils, however, such distinctions are entirely ar- 
bitrary, the earth changing its appearance gradually or even remain- 
ing uniform to a considerable depth. 

Again, the surface soil may have a greater downward extent than 
the active soil, or the tilth may extend into the sub-soil. 

Hard-pan is the appropriate name of a dense, almost impenetra- 
ble, crust or stratum of ochery clay or compacted gravel, often under- 
lying a fairly fruitful soil. It is the soil reverting to rock. The parti- 
cles once disjointed are being cemented together again by the solu- 
tions of lime, iron or alkali-silicates that descend from the surface soil. 
Such a stratum often separates the surface soil from a deep gravel 
bed, and peat swamps thus exist in basins formed on the most porous 
soils by a thin layer of moor-bed-pan. 

With these general notions regarding the origin and characters of 
soils, we may proceed to a somewhat extended notice of the pro- 
perties of the soil as influencing fertility. These divide themselves 
into physical characters — those which externally affect the growth 
of the plant; and chemical characters — those which provide it with 
food. 

Among the physical characters* we first notice the state of division 
in which the soil is found. 

On the surface of a block of granite onty a few lichens and mosses 
can exist; crush the block to a coarse powder and a more abundant 
vegetation can be supported on it; if it is reduced to a very fine dust 
and duly watered, even the cereal grains will grow and perfect fruit 
on it. Thus two soils may have the same chemical composition, and 
yet one be almost inexhaustibly fertile, and the other almost hope- 
lessly barren. There are sandy soils in the Eastern States, which, 
without manure, yield only the most meagre crops of rye or buck- 
wheat; and there are sandy soils in Ohio, which, without manure, 
yield on an average 80 bushels of Indian corn per acre, and have 
yielded this for twenty to fifty years in unbroken succession. Ac- 
cording to David A. Wells, (American Journal of Science, July, 
1852,) these two kinds of soil yield very similar, practically identical, 
results on chemical analysis, so far as their inorganic ingredients are 
concerned. What is the cause of the difference of fertility ? Our 
present knowledge can point to no other explanation than is furnished 
by the different fineness of the particles. The barren sandy soils 
consist in great part of coarse grains, while the Ohio soil is an ex- 
ceedingly fine powder. 

It is true, as a general rule, that all fertile soils contain a large 
proportion of very fine or impalpable matter. How the extreme 
division of the particles of the soil is connected with its fertility is 
not difficult to understand. The food of the plant must enter it in 
a state of solution, or if undissolved, the particles must be smaller 

Q In treating of the physical characters of the soil, the writer employs an essay on this 
subject, contributed by him to vol. XVI of the Transactions of the N. Y. State Agricul- 
tural Society. 



154 LECTURES ON 

than we can discover with the best optical aids, because the pores of 
the roots of plants are not discernible by any microscope. The 
mineral matters of the soil must be dissolved or diffused in water. 
The rapidity of their solution is in direct proportion to the extent of 
their surface. The finer the particles, the more abundantly will the 
plant be supplied with its necessary nourishment. In the Scioto 
valley soils the water which is transpired by the crops comes in con- 
tact with such an extent of surface that it is able to dissolve the soil- 
ingredients in as large quantity and as rapidly as the crop requires. 
In the coarse-grained soils this is not the case. Soluble matters 
(manures) must be applied to them by the farmer, or his crops refuse 
to yield handsomely. 

It is furthermore obvious, that, other things being equal, the 
finer the particles of the soil the more space the growing roots have 
in which to expand themselves, and the more numerously are they 
able to present their absorbent surfaces to the supplies which the 
soil contains. 

It will presently appear that other very important properties of the 
soil are more or less related to its state of mechanical division. 

The soil has, secondly, a 'power of ivithdr uiving from the air vapor of 
water and condensing the same in its pores. It is, in other words, 
hygroscopic. 

This property of a soil is of the utmost agricultural importance, 
because, 1st, it is connected with the permanent moisture which is 
necessary to vegetable existence, and, 2d, since the absorption of 
water-vapor determines the absorption of other vapors and gases. 

In the following table from Schiibler we have the results of a 
series of experiments carried out by that philosopher for the pur- 
pose of determining the absorptive power of different kinds of earths 
and soils. 

The column of figures gives in thousandths the quantity of moisture 
absorbed by the previously dried soil, under the same circumstances, 
in twenty-four hours: 

Quartz sand, coarse 

Gypsum 1 

Lime sand 3 

Plough land 23 

Clay soil, (60 per cent, clay) 28 

Slaty marl 33 

Loam 35 

Fine carbonate of lime 35 

Heavy clay soil, (80 per cent, clay) 41 

Garden mould, (7 per cent, humus) 52 

Pure clay 49 

Carbonate of magnesia, (fine powder) 82 

Humus 120 



An obvious practical result follows from the facts expressed in the 
above table, viz : that sandy soils which have little attractive force 
for watery vapor, and are therefore dry and arid, may be meliorated 
in this respect by admixture with clay, or better with humus, as 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 155 

is done by green manuring. The table gives ns proof that gypsum 
does nol exert any beneficial action in consequence of directly attract- 
ing moisture. Humus, or decaying vegetable matter, it will be seen, 
surpasses every other ingredient of the soil in absorbing moisture. 
This is doubtless in some degree connected with its extraordinary 
porosity or amount of surface. How the extent of surface alone may 
act is made evident by comparing the absorbent power of carbonate 
of lime in the two states of sand and of an impalpable powder. The 
latter it is seen, absorbed twelve times as much vapor of water as 
the former. Carbonate of magnesia stands next to humus, and it is 
worthy of note that it is a very light and fine powder. 

Finally, it is a matter of observation that "silica and lime in the 
form of coarse sand make the soil in which they predominate so 
dry and hot that vegetation perishes from want of moisture; when, 
however, they occur as fine dust, they form too wet a soil, in which 
plants perish from the opposite cause." — (Hamm's Landwirthschaft.) 
In the fact that soils have a physical absorbing power for the vapor 
of water, we have an illustration of a general principle, viz: That the 
surfaces of liquid and solid matter attract the particles of other kinds of 
matter. In the same way that water is absorbed, oxygen gas is con- 
densed, especially in certain highly porous bodies. Platinum, copper, 
lead, and iron, when in the state of fine sponge, exert a remarkable 
condensing power on oxygen, and it is probable that thereby this 
element is ozonized. Platinum sponge exhibits the characters of a 
body charged with ozone, and it is to be anticipated that investiga- 
tion will shortly demonstrate the occurrence of gaseous condensa- 
tions in the soil, the effect of which is to produce chemical changes 
of the most important character. It is not unlikely that the organic 
matters of the soil, which possess the extremest porosity may thereby 
acquire their power of ozonizing the oxygen which combines so 
readily with them, and thus accomplish the formation of nitric acid 
from atmospheric nitrogen. 

Of exceeding influence on the fertility of the soil is, thirdly, its 
permeability to liquid water. 

A soil is permeable to water when it allows that liquid to soak into 
or run through it. To be permeable is of course to be porous. On 
the size of the pores depends its degree of permeability. Coarse 
sands, and soils which hnvefeiv but large pores or interspaces, allow 
water to run through them readily — water percolates them. When, 
instead of running through, the water is largely absorbed and held 
by the soil, the latter is said to possess great capillary power; such a 
soil has many and minute pores. The cause of capillarity is the same 
surface attraction which has been already mentioned. 

When a narrow vial is partly filled with water, it will be seen that 
the liquid adheres to its sides, and if it be not more than one-half 
inch in diameter, the surface of the liquid will be curved or concave. 
In a very narrow tube the liquid will rise to a considerable height. 
In these cases the surface attraction of the glass for the water neu- 
tralizes or overcomes the weight of (earth' s attraction for) the latter. 
The pores of a sponge raise and hold water in them, in the same 



156 LECTURES ON 

way that these narrow (capillary*) tubes support it. When a body has 
pores so fine (surfaces so near each other) that their surface attrac- 
tion is greater than the gravitating tendency of water, then the body 
will suck up and hold water — will exhibit capillarity; a lump of salt or 
sugar, a lamp -wick, are familiar examples. When the pores of a 
body are so large (the surfaces so distant) that they cannot fill them- 
selves or keep themselves full, the body allows the water to run 
through or to percolate. 

Sand is most easily permeable to water, and to a higher degree 
the coarser its particles. Clay, on the other hand, is the least pene- 
trable, and the less so the purer and more plastic it is. 

When a soil is too coarsely porous it is said to be leachy or 
hungry. The rains that fall upon it quickly soak through, and it 
shortly becomes dry. On such a soil, the manures that may be ap- 
plied in the spring are to some degree washed down below the 
reach of vegetation, and in the droughts of summer plants suffer and 
perish from want of moisture. 

When the texture of a soil is too fine, its pores too small, as happens 
in a heavy clay, the rains penetrate it too slowly; they flow off the 
surface, if the latter be inclined, or remain as pools for days and even 
weeks in the hollows. In a soil of proper texture the rains neither 
soak off into the under earth nor stagnate on the surface, but the soil 
always (except in excessive wet or drought) maintains the moistness 
which is salutary to most of our cultivated plants. 

The part which the capillarity of the soil plays in the nutrition of 
the plant deserves a moment's notice. 

If a wick be put into a lamp containing oil, the oil, by capillary 
action, gradually permeates its whole length, that which is above as 
well as that below the surface of the liquid. When the lamp is set 
burning, the oil at the flame is consumed, and as each particle disap- 
pears its place is supplied by a new one, until the lamp is empty or 
the flame extinquished. 

Something quite analogous occurs in the soil, by which the plant 
(corresponding to the flame in our illustration) is fed. The soil is at 
once lamp and wick, and the water of the soil represents the oil. Let 
evaporation of water from the surface of the soil or of the plant take 
place of the combustion of the oil from a wick and the matter stands 
thus: Let us suppose dew or rain to have saturated the ground with 
moisture for some depth. On recurrence of a dry atmosphere with 
sunshine and wind, the surface of the soil rapidly dries; but as each 
particle of water escapes (by evaporation) into the atmosphere, its 
place is supplied (by capillarity) from the stores below. The ascending- 
water brings along with it the soluble matters of the soil, and thus the 
roots of plants are situated in a stream of their appropriate food. The 
movement proceeds in this way so long as the surface is dryer than 
the deeper soil. When, by rain or otherwise, the surface is saturated, 
it is like letting a thin stream of oil run upon the apex of the lamp- 



* From capillus the Latin word for hair, because as fine as hair; (hut a hair is no tube, as 
is often supposed.) 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 157 

wick — no more evaporation into the air can occur, and consequently 
there is no longer any ascent of water; on the contrary, the water, by 
its own weight, penetrates the soil, and if the underlying ground be 
not saturated with moisture, as can happen where the subterranean 
fountains yield a meagre supply, then capillarity will aid gravity in 
its downward distribution. 

The most rational conclusion from all the facts at our command is 
that all the mineral matters, as well as a portion of the organic bodies, 
which feed the plant, are carried into it by water. So long as evapora- 
tion goes on from the surface of the soil, so long there is a constant 
upward flow of saline matters. Those portions which do not enter 
vegetation accumulate on or near the surface of the ground; when a 
rain falls, they are washed down again to a certain depth, and thus 
are kept constantly changing their place with the water, which is the 
vehicle of their distribution. In regions where rain falls periodically 
or not at all, this upward flow of the soil-water often causes an accumu- 
lation of salts on the surface of the ground. Thus in Bengal many 
soils which in the wet season produce the most luxuriant crops, during 
the rainless portion of the year become covered with white crusts of 
saltpetre. Doubtless the beds of nitrate of soda that are found in 
Peru have accumulated in the same manner. So in our western caves 
the earth sheltered from rains is saturated with salts — epsom salts, 
glauber salts, and saltpetre, or mixtures of these. Often the rich 
soil of gardens is slightly incrusted in this manner in our summer 
weather; but the saline matters are carried into the soil with the 
next rain. 

It is easy to see how, in a good soil, capillarity thus acts in keeping 
the roots of plants constantly immersed in a stream of water or moist- 
ure that is now ascending, now descending, but never at rest, and 
how the food of the plant is thus made to circulate around the organs 
fitted for absorbing it. 

The same causes that maintain this perpetual supply of water and 
food to the plant are also efficacious in constantly preparing new sup- 
plies of food. As before explained, the materials of the soil are always 
undergoing decomposition, whereby the silica, lime, phosphoric acid, 
potash, &c, of the insoluble fragments of rock, become soluble in 
water and accessible to the plant. Water charged with carbonic acid 
and oxygen, is the chief agent in these chemical changes. The more 
extensive and rapid the circulation of water in the soil, the more 
matters will be rendered soluble in a given time, and, other things 
being equal, the less will the soil be dependent on manures to keep 
up its fertility. 

No matter how favorable the structure of the soil ma} r be to the 
circulation of water in it, no continuous upward movement can take 
place without evaporation. The ease and rapidity of evaporation, 
while mainly depending on the condition of the atmosphere and on 
the sun's heat, are to a certain degree influenced by the soil itself. 
We have already seen that the soil possesses a power of absorbing 
watery vapor from the atmosphere, a power which is related both to 



158 LECTURES ON 

the kind of material that forms the soil and to its state of division. 
This absorptive power opposes evaporation. Again, different soils 
manifest widely different capacities for imbibing liquid water — capa- 
cities mainly connected with their porosity. Obviously too, the 
quantity of liquid in a given volume of soil affects not only the 
rapidity, but also the duration of evaporation. 

The following tables by Schiibler illustrate the peculiarities of dif- 
ferent soils in these respects. The first column gives the per cents of 
water absorbed by the completely dry soil. In these experiments the 
soils were thoroughly wet with water, the excess allowed to drip off, 
and the increase of weight determined. In the second column are 
given the per cents of water that evaporated during the space of one 
hour from the saturated soil spread over a given surface : 

Quartz sand 25 88.4 

Gypsum 27 71. 7 

Lime sand 29 75.9 

Slaty marl 34 68.0 

Clay soil, (sixty per cent, clay,) 40 52.0 

Loam 51 45.7 

Plough land 52 32.0 

Heavy clay, (eighty per cent, clay,) 61 34.9 

Pure gray clay 70 31.9 

Fine carbonate of lime 85 28.0 

Garden mould 89 24.3 

Humus 181 25.5 

Fine carbonate of magnesia 256 10. 8 

It is obvious that these two columns express nearly the same thing 
in different ways. The amount of water retained increases from quartz 
sand to magnesia. The rapidity of drying in the air, diminishes in the 
same direction. 

The want of retentive power for water in the case of coarse sand is 
undeniably one of the chief reasons of its unfruitfulness. The best 
soils possess a medium retentive power. In them, therefore, are best 
united the conditions for the regular distribution of the soil-water under 
all circumstances. In them this process is not hindered too much either 
by wet or dry weather. The retaining power of humus is seen to be 
more than double that of clay. This result might appear at first sight 
to be in contradiction to ordinary observations, for we are accustomed 
to see water standing on the surface of clay but not on humus. It 
must be borne in mind that clay, from its imperviousness, holds water 
like a vessel, the water remaining apparent; but humus retains it 
invisibly, its action being nearly like that of a sponge. 

One chief cause of the value of a layer of humus on the surface of 
the soil doubtless consists in this great retaining power for water, and 
the success that has attended the practice of green manuring, as a 
means of renovating almost worthless shifting sands, is in a great 
degree to be attributed to this cause. The advantages of mulching 
are explained in the same way. 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 159 

The relations of the soil to heat are of the utmost importance in 
affecting its fertility. The distribution of plants in general, is deter- 
mined by differences of mean temperature. In the same climate and 
locality, however, we find the farmer distinguishing between cold 
and warm soils. 

The temperature of the soil varies to a certain depth with that of 
the air; yet its changes occur more slowly, are confined to a narrower 
range of temperature, and diminish downward in rapidity and amount, 
until at a certain depth a point is reached where the temperature is 
invariable. 

In summer the temperature of the soil is higher in day time than 
that of the air; at night the temperature of the surface rapidly falls, 
especially when the sky is clear. 

In temperate climates, at a depth of three feet, the temperature 
remains unchanged from day to night; at a depth of 20 feet the an- 
nual temperature varies but a degree or two; at 75 feet below the 
surface, the thermometer remains perfectly stationary. In the vaults 
of the Paris Observatory, 80 feet deep, the temperature is 50° Fah- 
renheit. In tropical regions the point of nearly unvarying tempera- 
ture is reached at a depth of one foot. 

The mean annual temperature of the soil is the same as, or in higher 
latitudes a degree above, that of the air. The nature and position 
of the soil must considerably influence its temperature. 

The sources of that heat which is found in the soil are two, viz: 
first, an internal one, the chemical process of oxydation or decay; 
second, an external one, the rays of the sun. 

The heat evolved by the decay of organic matters is not inconsid- 
erable in porous soils containing much vegetable remains; but this 
decay cannot proceed rapidly until the external temperature has 
reached a point favorable to vegetation, and therefore this source of 
heat probably has no appreciable effect one way or the other on the 
welfare of the plant. The warmth of the soil, so far as it favors ve- 
getable growth, appears then to depend exclusively on the heat of 
the sun. 

The earth has within itself a source of heat, which maintains its 
interior at a high temperature; but which escapes so rapidly from the 
surface that the soil would be constantly frozen but for the external 
supply of heat from the sun. 

The direct rays of the sun are the immediate cause of the warmth of 
the earth's surface. The temperature of the soil near the surface 
changes progressively with the season; but at a certain depth the 
loss from the interior and the gain from the sun compensate each 
other, and, as has been previously mentioned, the temperature remains 
unchanged throughout the year. 

During a summer day the heat of the sun reaches the earth 
directly, and it is absorbed by the soil and the solid objects on its 
surface, and also by the air and water. But these different bodies, 
and also the different kinds of soil, have very different ability to ab- 
sorb or become warmed by the sun's heat. Air and water are almost 
incapable of being warmed by heat applied above them. Through 



160 LECTUKES ON 

the air especially, heat radiates without being scarcely absorbed. 
The soil and solid bodies become warmed according to their individ- 
ual capacity, and from them the air receives the heat which warms 
it. Ffom the moist surface of the soil goes on a rapid evaporation, 
which renders latent* a large amount of heat, so that the tempera- 
ture of the soil is not rapidly but gradually elevated. The ascent of 
water from the sub-soil to supply the place of that evaporated goes 
on as before described. The liquid water of the soil has combined 
with (rendered latent) a vast amount of heat therefrom, and passed as 
o-aseous water (vapor) into the air. When the sun declines, the process 
diminishes in intensity, and when it sets, the reverse takes place. 
The heat that had accumulated on the surface of the earth radiates 
into the cooler atmosphere and planetary space, the temperature of 
the surface rapidly diminishes, and the air itself becomes cooler by 
convection, t As the cooling goes on, the vapor suspended in the at- 
mosphere begins to condense upon cool objects, while its latent heat 
becoming free hinders the too sudden reduction of temperature. The 
condensed water collects in drops — it is dew; or in the colder seasons 
it crystallizes as hoar-frost. 

The special nature of the surface of the soil is closely connected 
with the maintenance of a uniform temperature, with the prevention 

* When a piece of ice is placed in a vessel whose temperature is increasing, hy means of 
a lamp, at the rate of one degree of the thermometer every minute, it will be found that 
the temperature of the ice rises until it attains 32°. When this point is reached, it be- 
gins to melt, but does not suddenly become fluid : the melting goes on very gradually. A 
thermometer placed in the water remains constantly at 32° so long as a fragment of ice 
is present. The moment the ice disappears, the temperature begins to rise again, at 
the rate of one degree per minute. The time during which the temperature of the ice 
and water remains at 32° is 140 minutes. During each of these minutes one degree of 
heat enters the mixture, but is not indicated by the thermometer — the mercury remains 
stationary; 140° of heat have thus passed into the ice and become hidden, latent; at the same 
time the solid ice has become liquid water. The difference, then, between ice and water 
consists in the heat that is latent in the latter. If we now proceed with the above experi- 
ment, allowing the heat to increase with the same rapidity, we find that the temperature 
of the water rises constantly for 180 minutes. The thermometer then indicates a temper- 
ature of 212, (32+180,) and the water boils. Proceeding with the experiment, the water 
evaporates away, but the thermometer continues stationary so long as any liquid remains. 
After the lapse of 972 minutes, it is completely evaporated. Water in becoming steam 
renders, therefore, still another portion, 972°, of heat latent. The heat latent in steam is 
indispensable to the existence of the latter. If this heat be removed by bringing the 
steam into a cold space, water is reproduced. If, by means of pressure or cold, steam be 
condensed, the heat originally latent in it becomes sensible, free, and capable of affecting 
the thermometer. If, also, water be converted into ice, as much heat is evolved and made 
sensible as was absorbed and made latent. It is seen thus that the processes of liquefac- 
tion and vaporization are cooling processes; for the heat rendered latent by them must be 
derived from surrounding objects, and thus these become cooled. On the contrary, solidi- 
fication, freezing, and vapor-condensation are warming processes, since in them large quan- 
tities of heat cease to be latent and are made sensible, thus warming surrounding bodies. 

-j- Though liquids and gases are almost perfect non-conductors of heat, yet it can diffuse 
through them rapidly, if advantage be taken of the fact that by heating they expand and 
therefore become specifically lighter. If heat be applied to the upper surface of liquids or 
gases, they remain for a long time nearly unaffected; if it be applied beneath them, the lower 
layers of particles become heated and rise, their place is supplied by others, and so currents 
upward and downward are established, whereby the heat is rapidly and uniformly distrib- 
uted. This process of convection can rarely have any influence in the soil. What we have 
stated concerning it shows, however, in what way the atmosphere may constantly act in 
removing heat from the surface of the soil. 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 161 

of too great heat by day and cold by night, and with the watering or 
vegetation by means of dew. It is, however, in many cases only for 
a little space after seed-time that the soil is greatly concerned in 
these processes. So soon as it becomes covered with vegetation the 
character of the latter determines to a certain degree the nature of 
the atmospheric changes. In case of many crops the soil is but par- 
tially covered, and its peculiarities are then of direct influence on the 
vegetation it bears. Among these qualities the following may be 
noticed: 

1. The color of the soil. — It is usually stated that black or dark co- 
lored soils are sooner warmed by the sun's rays than those of lighter 
color, and remain constantly of a higher temperature so long as the 
sun acts on them. An elevation of several degrees in the tempera- 
ture of a light colored soil may be caused by strewing its surface 
with peat, charcoal powder, or vegetable mould. To this influence may 
be partly ascribed the following facts. Lampadius was able to ripen 
melons even in the coolest summers in Friberg, Saxony, by strewing 
a coating of coal dust an inch deep over the surface of the soil. In 
Belgium and on the Ehine, it is found that the grape matures best 
when the soil is covered with fragments of black clay slate. Girar- 
din found in a series of experiments on the cultivation of potatoes, 
that the time of their ripening varied eight to fourteen days, accord- 
ing to the color of the soil. He found on August 25th, in a very dark 
humus soil, twenty-six varieties ripe; in sandy soil, twenty; in clay, 
nineteen; and in white lime soil, only sixteen. It is not difficult to 
assign other causes that will account in part for the results here men- 
tioned; and although it has been observed that dark soils range from 
three to eight degrees higher in temperature than contiguous soils 
having a lighter color, it is not to color so much as to other qualities 
that the soil owes its peculiar temperature, as is proved by the recent 
observations of Malaguti and Durocher. They found that the tem- 
perature of a garden soil, just below the surface, was on the average 
6° Fahrenheit higher than that of the air, but that this higher tem- 
perature diminished at a greater depth. A thermometer buried four 
inches indicated a mean temperature only 3° above that of the atmos- 
phere. Besides the garden earth, just mentioned, which had a dark 
gray color, and was a mixture of sand and gravel containing but little 
clay, with about five per cent, humus, the thermometric characters 
of the following soils were observed, viz: a grayish-white quartz 
sand; a grayish-brown granite sand; a fine light-gray clay (pipe clay;) 
a yellow sandy clay; and, finally, four lime soils of different physical 
qualities. 

It was found that when the exposure was alike, the dark-gray 
granite sand became the warmest, and next to this the grayish-white 
quartz sand. The latter, notwithstanding its lighter color, often ac- 
quired a higher temperature when at a depth of four inches than the 
former, a fact to be ascribed to its better conducting power. The 
black soils never became so warm as the two just mentioned, demon- 
strating that color does not influence the absorption of heat so much 
as other qualities. After the black soils, the others came in the fol- 
11 



162 LECTURES ON 

lowing order: Garden soil; yellow sandy clay; pipe clay; lime soils 
having crystalline grains; and, lastly, a pulverulent chalk soil. 

To show what different degrees of warmth soils may acquire, under 
the same circumstances, the following maximum temperatures may be 
adduced: At noon of a July day, when the temperature of the air 
was 90°, a thermometer placed at a depth of a little more than one 
inch, gave these results : 

In quartz sand • • • 126° 

In crystalline lime soil 115° 

In garden soil 114° 

In yellow sandy clay 100° 

In pipe clay 94° 

In chalk soil 87° 

Here we observe a difference of nearly 40° in the temperature of 
the coarse quartz and the chalk soil. The experimenters do not men- 
tion the influence of water in affecting these results; they do not state 
the degree of dryness of these soils. It will be seen, however, that 
the warmest soils are those that retain least water, and doubtless 
something of the slowness with which the fine soils increase in warmth 
is connected with the fact that they retain much water, which, in 
evaporating, appropriates and renders latent a large quantity of heat. 

The chalk soil is seen to be the coolest of all, its temperature in 
these observations being three degrees lower than that of the atmos- 
phere at noon day. In hot climates this coolness is sometimes of great 
advantage as appears to happen in Spain, near Cadiz, where the 
Sherry vineyards flourish. ' ' The Don said the Sherry wine district 
was very small, not more than twelve' miles square. The sherry grape 
grew only on certain low chalky hills where the earth being light- 
colored, is not so much burnt ; did not chap and split so much by the 
sun as darker and heavier soils do. A mile beyond these hills the 
grape deteriorates." — (DicJcens' Household Words, November 13, 1858.) 

In explanation of these observations we must recall to mind the fact 
that all bodies are capable of absorbing and radiating as well as 
reflecting heat. These properties, although never disassociated from 
color, are not necessarily dependent upon it. They chiefly depend 
upon the character of the surface of bodies. Smooth polished sur- 
faces absorb and radiate heat least readily ; they reflect it most per- 
fectly. Radiation and absorption are opposed to each other, and the 
power of an)'' body to radiate is precisely equal to its faculty of absorb- 
ing heat. It must be understood, however, that bodies may differ in 
their power of absorbing or radiating heat of different degrees of intensity. 
Lampblack absorbs and radiates heat of all intensities in the same 
degree. White lead absorbs heat of low intensity (such as radiates 
from a vessel filled with boiling water) as fully as lampblack, but of 
the intense heat of a lamp it absorbs only about one-half as much. 
Snow seems to resemble white-lead in this respect. If a black cloth 
or black paper be spread on the surface of snow, upon which the sun 
is shining, it will melt much faster under the cloth than elsewhere, 
and this too if the cloth be not in contact with, but suspended above 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 163 

the snow. In our latitude every one has had opportunity to observe 
that snow thaws most rapidly when covered by or lying on black 
earth. The reason is that snow absorbs heat of low intensity with 
greatest facility. The heat of the sun is converted from a high to a 
low intensity by being absorbed and then radiated by the black mate- 
rial. But it is not color that detejjmines this difference of absorptive 
p*ower, for indigo and Prussian blue, though of nearly the same color, 
have very different absorptive powers. So far, however, as our 
observations extend, it appears that usually, dark colored soils absorb 
heat most rapidly, and that the sun' s rays have least effect on light 
colored soils. 

2. The degree of moisture present is of great influence on the tem- 
perature of the soil. All soils when thoroughly wet seem to be nearly 
alike in their power of absorbing and retaining warmth. The vast 
quantity of heat needful to gratify the demand of the vapor that is 
constantly forming, explains this. From this cause the difference in 
temperature between dry and wet soil may often amount from 10° to 18°. 
According to the observation of Dickinson, made at Abbot's Hill, 
Hertfordshire, England, and continued through eight years, 90 pev 
cent, of the water falling between April 1st .and October 1st, evapo- 
rates from the surface of the soil, only 10 per cent, finding its way into 
drains laid three and four feet deep. The total quantity of water that 
fell during this time, amounted to about 2,900,000 lbs. per acre; of 
this more than 2,600,000 evaporated from the surface. It has been 
calculated that to evaporate. artificially this enormous mass of water, 
more than seventy-five tons of coal must be consumed. 

Thorough draining, by loosening the soil and causing a rapid re- 
moval from below of the surplus water, has a most decided influence, 
especially in spring time, in warming the soil and bringing it into a 
suitable condition for the support of vegetation. 

It is plain then that even if we knew with accuracy what are the 
physical characters of a surface soil, and if we were able to estimate 
correctly the influence of these characters on its fertility, still we must 
investigate those circumstances which affect its wetness or dryness, 
whether they be an impervious sub -soil, or springs coming to the sur- 
face, or the amount and frequency of rain-falls, taken in connexion 
with other meteorological causes. We cannot decide that a clay is 
too wet or a sand too dry, until we know its situation and the climate 
it is subjected to. 

The great deserts of the globe do not owe their barrenness to neces- 
sary poverty of soil, but to meteorological influences — to the continued 
prevalence of parching winds, and the absence of mountains to con- 
dense the atmospheric water and establish a system of rivers and 
streams. This is not the place to enter into a discussion of the causes 
that may determine or modify climate, but to illustrate the effect that 
may be produced by means within human control, it may be stated that 
previous to the year 1821, the French district Provence was a fertile 
and well-watered region. In 1822, the olive trees which were largely 
cultivated there were injured by frost, and the inhabitants began to 
cut them up root and branch. This amounted to clearing off a forest, 



164 LECTURES ON 

and in consequence the streams dried up, and the productiveness of 
the country was seriously diminished. 

3. The angle at which the sun's rays strike a soil is of great influence 
on its temperature. The more this approaches a right angle the 
greater the heating effect. In the latitude of England the sun's heat 
acts most powerfully on surfaces having a southern exposure, and 
which are inclined at an angle of *&° and 30°. The best vineyards. 
of the Rhine and Neckar are also on hill-sides, so situated. In Lap- 
land and Spitsbergen the southern side of hills are often seen covered 
with vegetation, while lasting or even perpetual snow lies on their 
northern inclinations. 

4. The influence of a icall or other reflecting surface upon the warmth 
of a soil lying to the south of. it, was observed in the case of garden 
soil by Malaguti and Durocher. The highest temperature indicated 
by a thermometer placed in this soil at a distance of six inches from 
the wall, during a series of observations lasting seven days, (April, 
1852,) was 32° Fahrenheit higher at the surface, and 18° higher at a 
depth of four inches than in the same soil on the north side of the 
wall. The average temperature of the former during this time was 
8° higher than that of the latter. 

In the Rhine district grape vines are kept low and as near the soil 
as possible, so that the heat of the sun be reflected back upon them 
from the ground, and the ripening is then carried through the nights 
by the heat radiated from the earth. — {Journal Highland and Agricul- 
tural Society, July 1858, p. 347.) 

5. Malaguti and Durocher also studied the effect of a sod on the 
temperature of the soil. They observed that it hindered the warm- 
ing of the soil, and indeed to about the same extent as a layer of earth 
of three inches depth. Thus a thermometer four inches deep in green- 
sward acquires the same temperature as one seven inches deep in the 
same soil not grassed. 

It is to be remembered that the soils that warm most quickly, also 
cool correspondingly fast, and thus are subjected to the most exten- 
sive and rapid changes of temperature. The greensward which 
warms slowly, retains its warmth most tenaciously, and the sands that 
become hottest at noon-day, are coldest at midnight. 

Of no little practical importance is the shrinking of soils on drying. — 
This shrinking is of course offset by an increase of bulk when the 
soil becomes wet. In variable weather we have therefore constant 
changes of volume occurring. Soils rich in humus experience these 
changes to the greatest degree. The surfaces of moors often rise and 
fall with the wet or dry season, through a space of several inches. 
In ordinary light soils containing but little humus no change of bulk 
is evident. Otherwise, it is in clay soils that shrinking is most per- 
ceptible; since these soils only dry superficially they do not appear 
to settle much, but become full of cracks and rifts. Heavy clays may 
lose one-tenth or more of their volume on drying, and since at the 
same time they harden about the rootlets which are imbedded in them, 
it is plain that these indispensable organs of the plant must thereby 
e ruptured during the protracted dry weather. Sand, on the other 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 165 

hand, does not change its bulk by wetting or drying, and when present 
to a considerable extent in the soil, its particles being interposed be- 
tween those of the clay, prevent the adhesion of the latter, so that, 
although a sandy loam shrinks not inconsiderably on drying, yet the 
lines of separation are vastly more numerous and less wide than in 
purer clays. Such a soil does not "cake," but remains friable and 
powdery. 

Marly soils (containing carbonate of lime) are especially prone to 
fall to a fine powder during drying, since the carbonate of lime, which 
like sand, shrinks very little, is itself in a state of extreme division, 
and therefore more effectually separates the clayey particles. The 
unequal shrinking of these two intimately mixed ingredients accom- 
plishes a perfect pulverization of such soils. Professor Wolff, of the 
Academy of Agriculture, at Hohenheim, Wirtemberg, states that on 
the cold heavy soils of Upper Lusatia, in Germany, the application 
of lime has been attended with excellent results, and he thinks that 
the larger share of the benefit is to be accounted for by the improve- 
ment in the texture of those soils which follows liming. The car- 
bonate of lime is considerably soluble in water charged with carbonic 
acid, as is the water of a soil containing vegetable matter, and this 
agency of distribution in connection with the mechanical operations 
of tillage, must in a short time effect an intimate mixture of the lime 
with the whole soil. A tenacious clay is thus by a heavy liming 
made to approach the condition of a friable marl. 

We may give a moment's notice to the cohesiveness of the soil. — 
A soil is said to be heavy or light, not as it weighs more or less, but 
as it is easy or difficult to work. The state of dryness has great influ- 
ence on this quality. Sand, lime, and humus have very little cohesion 
when dry, but considerable when wet. Soils in which they pre- 
dominate are usually easy to work. But clay has entirely different 
characters, and upon them almost exclusively depends the tenacity 
of a soil. Dry clay, when powdered, has hardly more consist- 
ence than sand, but when thoroughly moistened its particles adhere 
together to a soft and plastic, but tenacious mass; and in drying 
away, at a certain point it becomes very hard, and requires a good 
deal of force to penetrate it. In this condition it offers great resist- 
ance to the instruments used in tillage, and when thrown up by the 
plough it forms lumps which require repeated harrowings to break 
them down. Since the cohesiveness of the soil depends so greatly 
upon the quantity of water contained in it, it follows that thorough 
draining, combined with deep tillage, whereby sooner or later the 
stiffest clays become readily permeable to water, must have the best 
effects in making such soils easy to work. 

The English practice of burning clays speedily accomplishes the 
same purpose. When clay is burned and then crushed the particles 
no longer adhere tenaciously together on moistening, and the mass 
-does not acquire again the unctuous plasticity peculiar to unburned 
clay. 

Mixing sand with clay, or incorporating vegetable matter with it, 



166 LECTURES ON 

serves to separate the particles from each other, and thus remedies 
too great cohesiveness. 

When water freezes its volume increases, as is well known. The 
alternate freezing and thawing of the water which impregnates the 
soil during the colder part of the year plays thus an important part 
in overcoming its cohesion. The effect is mostly apparent in the 
spring, immediately after "the frost leaves the ground," but is 
usually not durable, the soil recovering its former consistence by the 
operations of tillage. Fall-ploughing of stiff soils has been recom- 
mended, in order to expose them to the disintegrating effects of 
frost. 

In turning now to the chemical characters of the soil, we have 
first to notice its composition. It being understood that the soil is 
the exclusive source of mineral food to the plant, we of course expect 
to find all the ingredients of the ash of plants in every soil that is 
able to maintain vegetation. Great differences however, are found 
to exist in the proportions, and especially in the condition as regards 
solubility of these matters, as seen from the following analyses: 

1st. Analysis of a productive wheat soil (clay) from Renfrewshire, 
Scotland, by Dr. Anderson: 

Soluble in water — 

Silica 0.0221 

Lime 0.0475 

Chlorid of calcium 0.0205 

Chlorid of magnesium 0. 0061 

Chlorid of potassium 0.0003 

Chlorid of sodium 0.0015 

Sulphuric acid 0.0309 

Organic matter ©.2084 

0.3373 

Soluble in acid — 

Silica 0.0838 

Alumina 1.6104 

Peroxyd of iron 3.4676 

Lime 1.0771 

Magnesia 0. 1262 

Potash 0.0469 

Soda 0.0920 

Sulphuric acid 0.0039 

Phosphoric acid 0. 0749 

6.5828 

Insoluble in acids — 

Silica 74.4890 

Alumina 7. 2540 

Peroxyd of iron 1.4167 

Lime 0.3150 

Magnesia 0.4043 

• 83.8790 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 167 



Organic matter- 



Insoluble organic matter 6.1209 

Humic acid 0.8924 

Apocrenic acid 0. 1280 

Crenic acid 0.0128 

Water 2.0930 

9.2471 

99.9462 

Amount of carbon, oxygen, nitrogen, and hydrogen in 100 parts 
of soil — 

Carbon 3.1400 

Oxygen 3.5060 

Nitrogen 0. 1428 

Hydrogen 0.4200 

2d. Analysis, by the writer, of sterile soil from the upper Palati- 
nate, Bavaria — 

Water 0.535 

Organic matter 1. 850 

Silica 0.016 

Oxyd of iron and alumina 1.640 

Lime 0.096 

Magnesia trace. 

Carbonic acid trace. 

Phosphoric acid trace. 

Chlorine trace. 

Alkalies none. 

Quartz and insoluble silicates 95.863 



100.000 



In fertile soils there is always to be found a quantity of fixed min- 
eral as well as organic matters that are soluble in pure water. In 
the wheat soil this quantity amounted to but three parts in 1,000, and 
in this Dr. Anderson found no phosphoric acid and no oxyd of iron, 
although all the other mineral ingredients of plants were present. 
In the sterile soil nothing weighable, when, as was the case, but a 
small sample was operated on, could be separated by water alone, 
but as even this soil supported some vegetation — the whortleberry and 
various grasses as well as lichens, all the minerals found in vegeta- 
tion might have been detected by exhausting a sufficiently large 
quantity. In the fertile soil is found a larger amount of matters solu- 
ble in acid, in the above instance six and a half per cent. ; and here 
the analyst had no difficulty in finding all the mineral food of vegeta- 
tion. In the sterile soil but little more than four per cent, of matters 
were dissolved by acids, and in this phosphoric acid and alkalies 
were not present in appreciable quantity. Finally, the larger share 
of the soil in both cases resists the solvent action of acids nearly 
altogether. 



168 



LECTURES ON 



The portion soluble in water represents* the presently available 
stock of plant food in the soil. As already intimated, plants receive 
their nutriment either as gas or as liquid. The fixed mineral matters 
of the soil are taken up by the plant from solution in water. If we 
examine the soil with sufficient care, we do not fail to find everything 
in it in a soluble state that is needed by vegetation. 

Quite recently, Grouven and Stockhardt have given renewed proof 
of this statement. Below is a tabular view of the matters found by 
these chemists in three soils — one poor, the others very productive : 





Grouven. 


Stockhardt. 


1,000 parts of soil yielded to 
water. 


Poor 

sandy soil, from 

Bickendorf. 


Rich 

garden soil, from 

Heidelberg. 


Very rich clover 
soil, from St. 
Martin, Tyrol. 




\ 


0. 0920 
0. 1992 
0.0152 
0. 0007 
trace. 
0.0104 
0. 0078 
0. 0840 
0. 0062 
0. 0050 
0. 0357 

0. 1010 


0.110 
0.384 
0.009 
0.015 
0.014 

0.234 

• 0.016 

0.069 

0.046 

0.306 






0.110 




0.055 




0.012 




0.021 




I 0.052 
0.182 


Alumina _.._._. . . 






0. 020 


Potash . - ....... 


0.131 


Soda .... ........ 


0.083 


Organic matter containing nitric 
Nitrogen ...... 


0.530 
0.160 








0.529 


1.156 


1,356 



That portion which comes into solution only by the use of strong 
acids represents the reserve forces of the soil. Here we find stores 
of plant food, which, under natural agencies, require many years to 
become fully available to vegetation; but which are, nevertheless, 
constantly, though very slowly, contributing to the fertility of the 
soil. The least soluble matters, again, do not wholly escape slow 
alteration and partial solution, and, as analyses show, often contain 
alkalies, lime, &c. 

As to the solubility of the food of the plant in water, it may be 
remarked that while the analyses quoted sufficiently demonstrate the 
general fact, science enables us to comprehend, to some extent, the 
detail of the processes which bring about this result. The chemist 
is in the habit of considering certain bodies, viz : silica, oxide of iron, 
and phosphate of iron or phosphoric acid in presence of oxide of iron. 
as absolutely insoluble, and under most circumstances'' they are so, in 
pure water, when alone. But in presence of other bodies, especially 
when the mixture is so complicated as in the soil, they manifest 
a very different action. Many bodies which do not yield to the 
solvent action of pure water are very perceptibily taken up by car- 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 169 

bonated water, (i. e., water saturated with carbonic acid.) Thus, to 
use a well-known instance, carbonate of lime is as good as insoluble 
in pure water, but in carbonated water it dissolves quite readily. 
Salts of ammonia dissolve phosphate of lime to a very appreciable 
extent, as has long been known, and as Liebig has recently shown by 
quantitative trials. Silica is not absent from natural waters, although 
the conditions of its solution are not well understood. The chemist 
has succeeded in preparing strong solutions of silica in pure water, 
artificially, and the so-called infusoria of all fresh water streams, 
which sometimes have accumulated to form beds of many miles in ex- 
tent and many feet in depth, are but the silicious skeletons of micro- 
scopic vegetable organisms that collected their silica from the clearest 
and purest water. Phosphate of iron is soluble, or at least yields its 
phosphoric acid, under the conjoint action of carbonate or silicate of 
lime and carbonated water. Sulphate of baryta, even, is decomposed 
in the soil, and yields its sulphuric acid to a growing plant. 

Allusion has already been made to the importance of those matters 
which, originally belonging to the atmosphere, have become a portion 
of the soil. 

Pulverized rocks do not constitute a good soil until they have be- 
come weathered — i. e., chemically decomposed, so as to contain a 
portion of soluble matters, and also acquire a certain content of car- 
bon and nitrogen. It happens that these two effects are conjointly 
brought about. The neighborhood of a volcano affords opportunity 
for tracing the formation of a fertile soil in a manner analogous 
to, or identical with what occured over all the land before the 
human epoch. The lava that lies on the slopes or fills the con- 
tiguous valleys, once melted rock, remains after cooling, almost 
bare for years. Then lichens begin to cover its surface. These 
succeed each other for generations, slowly increasing in number 
and size, hastening by their decay the disintegration of the rock, 
and causing the accumulation of humus and nitrates. So the weath- 
ering of the rock, the use and enrichment of the sparse soil, goes 
on, perhaps, for centuries before the earth is deep and fertile 
enough to produce low shrubs. After another similar period a forest 
is formed, with a soil rich in all that is needed for agriculture, being 
stored with the fixed minerals that have been detached or solved 
from the original lava, and having gathered during these ages mate- 
rials from the atmosphere to make up the complement of fertility. 

We often see railroad cuttings through beds of gravel or clay which 
perfectly resemble the adjacent productive soil, but which remain for 
years perfectly naked and barren, and only after a long period of time 
assume a state of tolerable fertility. 

The humus of the fertile soil, as already stated, does not, perhaps, 
act to much extent in directly feeding vegetation, although we have 
no positive evidence against the assumption that it is thus useful in 
some degree. It does, however, in many indirect ways contribute to 
the welfare of the plant. Its influence on the physical characters of 
the soil, its mediating agency in maintaining the proper consistency, 
moisture, and warmth of the earth, has been already noticed. The 



170 LECTURES ON 

carbonic acid resulting from its ceaseless oxydation is of vast import- 
ance, both as a supply of this form of plant food, in more 'abundant 
measure than the atmosphere alone could yield, and as the most pow- 
erful means of maintaining the requisite store of solved saline and 
earthy food in the soil. 

The general statement that humus, or, in other words, condensed atmo- 
spheric plant food, is needful in the soil, requires some qualification. 
It is not essential to all, even, of the so-called higher orders of plants, 
or, indeed, to all agricultural plants. The cactus has its home on 
the most naked arid sands. Pines and firs flourish in soil equally 
destitute of humus. Buckwheat commonly grows on light, poor soils; 
and it is asserted that in Peru and Chili, maize prospers in soils free 
from humus, if started by a little guano, and afterward supplied with 
water. We may, however, safely assert, that in temperate climates, 
for the usual course of crops, a soil to be productive, in a practical 
sense, must either contain originally, or have added to it, nitrogen 
and carbon in assimilable form. Natural growth, in soil, destitute of 
atmospheric ingredients, either of those plants just mentioned, whose 
proper habitat is such a soil, or of the grains and common agricul- 
tural plants, is, other things being equal, invariably too slow for the 
purposes of agriculture. Not, indeed, for all purposes of agricul- 
ture, for in what is called agriculture many very inferior crops 
are annually reaped; but for the general purposes of a culture which 
seeks to be in a high degree remunerative, the telluric elements are 
insufficient. 

The same holds true of the atmospheric as of the earthy ingre- 
dients of soil in respect of varying quantity and different assimila- 
bility. 

In the poorest sand, analysis reveals the presence of nitrogen, 
often one hundred times as much as is needed by the largest grain 
crop; while in good soil the quantity of this element may amount to 
from one to two thousandths of fhe entire weight. Of this nitrogen, 
a portion exists as ammonia, another as nitric acid, but another and 
far larger share of it, is in a form that is insoluble in water and una- 
vailable to the plant. 

In a rich garden soil that had been cultivated for many years, 
Boussingault found in 100 parts — 

Nitrogen 0. 261 

Ammonia 0.0022 Containing nitrogen 0.00181 

Nitric acid 0.00034 Containing nitrogen • • • • 0.00009 

By actual trial with this soil, the same distinguished experimenter 
found that only the small amount of nitrogen existing as ammonia 
and nitric acid was of present use to vegetation; the remainder, 
96-100 of the whole, being for the time quite inert. 

The inert nitrogen appears to exist chiefly in the humus of the 
soil, in a form analogous to that assumed by the same element in 
bituminous or anthracite coal. It is, however, most probable not 
utterly unassimilable; but, as the carbon and hydrogen which are 
combined with it oxydize, it appears in the form of nitric acid, 



AGEICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 171 

especially in presence of lime or alkalies, or perhaps under other 
conditions as ammonia. 

As to the amount of assimilable matters needful to constitute a 
fertile soil, we have hardly any just notion, nor, indeed, can we easily 
form one. 

If we assume Avhat is as yet not altogether warranted, the right 
of distinguishing between the assimilable and non-assimilable parts 
of the soil by the solvent action of carbonated water, we still en- 
counter the variable influence of physical characters as affecting the 
distribution of the plant-food, and above all, there stands in our way 
the capital fact that as the growth of the plant is progressive, so are 
its wants, and likewise those solving mediating agencies which supply 
its food. So that we cannot, hj observations made at any one mo- 
ment, determine the value of ingredients which extend their action 
over a considerable period of time. 

The same soil may vary exceedingly at different times in its con- 
tent of soluble matters, as analysis has proved. In the garden soil 
above alluded to the content of nitric acid given is that found in 
June; but Boussingault informs us that in the following September 
the same earth contained near thirty times as much of this ingredient. 

There is doubtless a rigorous reciprocal relation between the 
quantities of soluble (assimilable) matters in the soil and the mass 
of soil needed to feed a plant during the vegetative period. 

The greater the proportion of soluble matters, the less volume of 
earth is neeeded to sustain a given crop. In practice it is found that 
each kind of plant requires a certain and pretty large quantity of 
soil for its development. The farmer has his rules as to the space 
which shall intervene between individual plants of wheat, of potatoes, 
of maize, &c; and in regions widely distant from each other these 
rules, adopted as the best result of experience, are more or less 
unlike, varying with climate, soil, and other circumstances. It is 
found, also, that on a given soil nearly the same crop is obtained, 
whether the plants be closer to, or farther from each other, within 
certain limits. In case of fewer plants, each one is more vigorous, 
and gives a larger return; while in the other instance, the smaller 
individual yield is made up by the greater number of plants. 

Boussingault, to whose numerous and admirable researches the 
student of scientific agriculture must constantly make reference, 
found by actual measurement that, according to the rules of garden 
culture as practiced near Strasburg, a dwarf bean had at its disposition 
65 pounds of soil; a potatoe plant, (hill?) 190 pounds; a tobacco 
plant, 480 pounds; and a hop plant, 3,000 pounds. 

In respect to chemical composition, we may assert that the absence 
of several, or even of one essential form of plant-food, must stamp 
a soil with utter infertility, no matter how abundant its other ingre- 
dients may be. It is equally true that the absence of one ingredient 
in assimilable condition must constitute a soil barren and worthless. 

We may likewise lay down the proposition that the deficiency, vp to 
to a certain point, of one or several substances in available form, 
renders a soil infertile. On the other hand we cannot, with any 



172 LECTURES ON 

hope of success, undertake to show what is this certain point or 
define the limits which, over-passed, make the soil unproductive. 

It not unfrequently happens that the presence of noxious com- 
pounds greatly injures an otherwise excellent soil. Soluble salts of 
iron and alumina, especially the sulphates of these bases, are, so 
far as we now know, the principal causes of this kind of mischief. 
Some soils are formed from rocks that contain numerous grains and 
larger masses of iron pyrites or sulphid of iron, which, exposed to 
the weather, oxydize to sulphate of iron (copperas) and the solution 
of this salt in a certain stage of concentration destroys the vegetable 
tissues, and thereby renders the soil in which it exists unfavorable 
to growth. In a specimen of peat from Brooklyn, Conn., the writer 
found a not inconsiderable quantity of sulphate of iron, and likewise 
sulphate of alumina. Both these salts have a powerful decomposing 
effect on the rootlets of plants. 

The importance which attaches to the proper availability or solu- 
bility of the nutriment in the soil leads at once to the inquiry, may 
not the soluble matters be washed out and lost by rains, or may they 
not accumulate in too great quantity ? 

There are certain influences external to the soil, which, acting re- 
ciprocally, tend to maintain in it a nearly constant content of soluble 
matter. On the one hand the disintegration of the soil, the decay of 
vegetation, rain, and dew, are perpetually enriching; while vegetable 
growth, springs, and streams, (rain that has passed through the mould,) 
and evaporation, are as continually wasting the soil. Since the mass 
of soil is so great, and the most rapid and exhausting of these pro- 
cesses operate so slowly, their effect is in general to leave the soil in 
possession of the requisite small amount of soluble matters, and only 
in exceptional cases can positive excess or deficiency occur. 

In the soil itself we find, however, a remarkable property which 
enables it to convert excess of soluble matters into an appropriate 
quantity, and at the same time to store up this excess against what 
might otherwise be a period of want. The soil has, in fact, a power 
of regulating its supplies to vegetation, in a manner that was not 
dreamed of but a decade since. 

The fact has been already alluded to, in treating of the physical 
characters of the soil, that it has a power of absorbing vapor of 
water, and in general other gaseous bodies — a power shared by the 
soil to more or less extent with all porous bodies. 

Besides this purely physical quality, we find the soil to possess 
another absorptive capacity, which, though not independent of phy- 
sical conditions, appears to be chemical in its nature, that is, depends 
upon the presence of certain lands or combinations of matter. 

Without this chemical absorption the other quality would be of 
little avail in directly nutrifying the plant, because water alone is 
capable of nullifying the latter, and at the same time performing any 
office that it might appear to exercise in a much more effectual man- 
ner. Ammonia has long been known to be taken up by the soil, and 
to be retained in it. Previous to the year 1850 it was supposed that 
this gas underwent absorption by surface condensation, exerted by 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 173 

the more porous ingredients of the soil, namely, humus, oxyd of iron 
and alumina; an agency which is exhibited most strikingly in case of 
ammonia by charcoal, which, when freshly ignited, may absorb as 
much as ninety times its bulk of this gas. The ammonia thus con- 
densed is, however, easily removed. Water or exposure to moist 
air at once displaces it, for it is only the absolutely dry charcoal that 
absorbs ammonia. Common moist charcoal has no appreciable faculty 
of this kind, its pores being already fully occupied, having satisfied 
their absorptive power on vapor of water and the ingredients of the 
atmosphere. 

Liebig, reasoning from these facts, asserted in his ' ' Chemistry 
applied to Agriculture and Physiology, " that "the ammonia absorbed 
by clay or ferruginous oxyds is separated by every shower of rain 
and conveyed in solution to the soil." 

The chemical absorption consists in the fixation and retention in 
the soil of volatile or dissolved matters, by their entering into com- 
paratively insoluble combinations. This fixation is not, however,, 
absolute, as we shall presently see. 

Thompson and Way of England, in 1850, (see Journal Royal Agri- 
cultural Society of England for that year,) first began to develope the 
interesting facts which relate to this subject. Since the date of their 
investigations Liebig, Voelcker, Henneberg & Stohmann, Eichhorn, 
and Brustlein, have occupied themselves with its study. 

The main facts are, briefly stated, as follows: 

Free ammonia and lime, and their carbonates, are absorbed and 
chemically retained by the organic acids, (humic, crenic, <fec.,) the 
ammonia in a non-volatile, but to some extent soluble form. Am- 
monia is also absorbed by oxyd of iron and alumina, and held in a 
non- volatile and very slightly soluble state. 

Salts of ammonia, namely, sulphate hydrochlorate and nitrate, are 
at once decomposed by the soil when their dilute solutions are agitated 
with or filtered through it; the ammonia being retained, the acid re- 
maining in solution united to lime. 

The same salts of potash are likewise decomposed as above; the 
potash being retained, the acids uniting with lime. 

Salts of lime, in general, are not absorbed, especially when added 
alone to the soil, or when the soil is rich in lime; but in several of 
Voelcker' s experiments the liquor from a dung-heap containing a con- 
siderable quantity of sulphate of lime lost this ingredient nearly or 
entirely by filtration through a sandy soil, and at the same time the 
amount of carbonate of lime in the solution was diminished. 

Salts of soda and magnesia are also retained, though usually in a 
less degree. 

When solutions of phosphates and silicates of the alkalies are em- 
ployed in these experiments, we find that the acids are also retained; 
and from the trials of Voelcker already referred to, we have evidence 
that sulphuric and hydrochloric acids are also liable to absorption. 
In no instance has a fixation of nitric acid been observed. 

According to Brustlein's late researches, the retention of the bases 
when employed in saline combinations cannot occur except in presence 
of carbonate of lime. This view is, however, erroneoiis. 



174 LECTURES ON 

Way, after studying separately as far as possible the effect of each 
ingredient of the soil without arriving at any satisfactory conclusion 
as to the seat of this peculiar absorptive power, as a last resort inves- 
tigated the relations of the silicates to saline solutions. Silicates con- 
taining but one base he found ineffectual, and next had recourse to 
compound silicates. He experimented then with feldspar, but found 
that it was without action on solutions of ammonia salts, and hence 
concluded that the powder of granitic rocks is not the agent of these 
decompositions. His next step was a more successful one. He attempted 
to imitate the compound silicates that may occur in the soil as products 
of the weathering of rocks, such as most probably exist in all soils to 
a greater or less degree. He artificially prepared silicates of alumina 
with potash, soda, lime, and ammonia, respectively; and these he found 
to possess the property of suffering decomposition in saline solutions, 
with the mutual replacement (fixation) of isomorphous bases. 

But it was reserved for Eichhorn, in 1858, to set forth in a true 
light the action of the double alumina-silicates. This experimenter, 
in cognizance of the fact that Way' s artificial silicates contained water 
as an essential ingredient, was led to make trials with natural compounds 
of a similar character. He selected for this purpose the zeolites, chaba- 
zite, and natrolite, whose composition is given among those minerals 
from which soils originate in the table on page 150. The chabazite 
he employed was essentially a silicate of alumina, lime, and water. 
The fine powder of this mineral being agitated and digested for some 
days with hydrochlorates (chlorids*) of potash, soda, dilute solutions 
of ammonia, lime, &c, fixed in the solid and nearly insoluble form a 
portion of the basic ingredient of these salts, while the acid was found 
in the solution combined with a quantity of lime equivalent to the 
absorbed base. In one experiment the powdered chabazite was 
digested for ten days with a dilute solution containing a known 
amount of pure common salt. The mineral was then found to have a 
composition, compared with that it originally possessed, as follows : 

Composition of Chabazite. 



Silica 

Alumina 

Lime 

Potash 

Soda 

Water 

99-75 100.37 

Comparing the two statements, we see that nearly one -half the lime 
of the original mineral is replaced by soda. A loss of water also has 
occurred. The solution separated from the mineral contained nothing 
but soda, lime, and chlorine, and the latter in precisely its original 
quantity. 

8 In chemistry the hydrochlorate of an ozyd signifies the same as the chloride of a metal; thus 
hydrochlorate of soda and chlorid or chloride of sodium mean the same thing. 



Before digestion 


After digestion 


in solution of common salt. 


in solution of common salt. 


47-44 


48-31 


20-69 


21-04 


10-37 


6-65 


0-65 


0-64 


0-42 


5-40 


20.18 


18-33 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 175 

By acting on cbabazite with dilute chlorid of ammonium for ten days 
the mineral was altered, and contained 3*33 per cent, of ammonia. 
Digested twenty-one days, the mineral yielded 6*94 per cent, of 
ammonia, and also had lost water. 

Eichhorn found that the artificial soda-chabazite re-exchanged soda 
for lime when digested in a solution of chlorid of calcium; in solution 
of chlorid of potassium both soda and lime were separated from it and 
replaced by potash. So, the ammonia-chabazite in solution of chlorid 
of calcium exchanged ammonia for lime, and in solutions of chlorids of 
potassium and sodium both ammonia and lime passed into the liquid. 
The ammonia-chabazite in solution of sulphate of magnesia lost 
ammonia but not lime, though doubtless the latter base would have 
been found in the liquid had the digestion been continued longer. 

It thus appears that in the case of chabazite all the protoxyd bases 
may mutually replace each other, time being the only element of 
differences in the exchanges. 

In experimenting on natrolite, however, Eichhorn found that it was 
not affected by solution of chlorid of calcium, owing perhaps to some 
peculiarity in the constitution of this mineral, its soda being probably 
more firmly combined than that of chabazite. 

These valuable researches, though serving but as an introduction 
to the study of a highly-complicated subject, present so close an 
analogy to what is observed in case of the soil, no matter whether it 
be fertile or barren, clay or sand, that we are fully warranted in 
assuming the presence in all soils of hydrous double silicates which 
determine the absorption and retention of potash, ammonia, &c, from 
solutions of their salts. 

As regards the fixation of the acids, we know that oxyd of iron and 
alumina, as well as lime and magnesia under certain conditions, form 
insoluble phosphates and silicates; we are also acquainted with an 
insoluble chlorine compound, viz: chloro-phosphate of lime, which 
occurs abundantly as the mineral apatite, while sulphuric acid forms 
insoluble combinations with excess of peroxyd of iron anda lumina. 
We know, however, no insoluble compounds of nitric acid with any of 
the bases found in the soil, excepting oxyd of iron and alumina, and 
these require a high temperature for their formation. 

The fixation of the bases in the circumstances described, both in the 
soil and with hydrate cl aluminous silicates, is influenced by a variety 
of conditions, physical and chemical. The only points which further 
require notice are : 1st. That an ordinary soil is capable of fixing a 
vastly larger quantity of ammonia, potash, or phosphoric a$id — the 
three generally most rare, and therefore most precious forms of plant 
food — than is ever likely to be brought into the soil either by natural 
or artificial means. 2d. That the soil never completely removes any of 
these bodies from even the most dilute solution. 3d. The soil which 
has saturated itself from a solution of these bodies restores them again 
sloivly to pure water or to a weaker solution. 

Way, Russell, and Liebig, from a partial apprehension of the nature 
of this absorption, drew the premature inference that land plants do 
not receive their food from solutions, but themselves attack and solve 



176 



LECTURES ON 



Fig. 14. 



the soil. In the light of the facts we have set forth, this view is not 
for a moment admissible. 

In seeking the means by which the dissolved matters of the soil 
find entrance into the plant, we must have recourse to the same 
agency which accounts for the imbibition of its gaseous food. Differ- 
ent liquids or solutions of different solids in the same liquid, if capable 
of mixture at all, exhibit the osmotic or diffusive tendency, which 
has been considered in case of gases. 

If a tall vessel be partly filled with salt and then completely with 
water, the salt as it dissolves forms a solution much heavier than 
pure water, which therefore tends to remain unmixed at the bottom 
of the vessel. In fact it is easy to add the water so carefully that at 
first no salt shall be perceptible by taste or otherwise near the surface. 
In time, however, although every possible means of mechanical 
admixture be perfectly avoided, the salt will diffuse into the pure 
water until every portion of the liquid be uniform in composition. 

Diffusion will take place equally well through porous membranes, 
provided they are capable of being wetted by (have surface attraction 
for) at least one of the liquids. 

The apparatus shown in figure 14 is one commonly employed to 
illustrate the fact of liquid diffusion. The tube a 
is fastened to the neck of a bladder filled with brine, 
solution of sugar, or other dense liquid, and the 
latter is immersed in the water of the large vessel. 
Immediately water passes inwardly to the brine 
{endosmose) and salt passes outwardly to the water 
(exosmose.) The endosmose being more rapid than 
the exosmose, the brine shortly rises in the tube to 
a considerable height. 

The rapidity and even the direction of the osmose 
is greatly dependant on the nature of the membrane. 
Alcohol and water diffuse into each other without 
difficulty when brought into direct contact; if we 
separate them by a bladder we find that water will 
rapidly pass into the alcohol, but the reverse flow 
will take place with great slowness, for the reason 
that alcohol cannot wet the surface of this membrane. 
On the other hand india-rubber is readily moistened 
by alcohol but not by water; and if a thin sheet of 
this substance be interposed between these liquids, 
it will be seen that alcohol passes the membrane 
into the water much more rapidly than water tra- 
verses in the opposite direction. 

Schacbt has made observations on the cell-mem- 
brane of the Caulerpa prolifera, a plant presenting 
single cells of sufficient size for such purposes, and 
found that it admitted of all the phenomena of diffusion exactly as 
manifested by other membranes. 

The rootlets of a plant being immersed in the water (or moisture) 
of the soil, act towards it as the bladder filled with brine in our 




AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 177 

figure. The liquids of the root-cells being of different composition 
from the soil-water, and the cell-membranes admitting (having surface 
attraction for) the soil-water, the latter with its contents penetrates 
the cells, so long as difference of composition or want of equilibrium in 
the surface attractions, either of the membrane for the liquid, or of 
the dissolved matters for the solvent, exist. The diffusion goes on 
from cell to cell in the same manner throughout the whole plant, as 
long as any cause produces inequality in the mutual surface attractions 
of any two of its ingredients, whether solid or liquid. 

Since perpetual changes are progressing in every part of the grow- 
ing vegetable organism, we have no difficulty in finding the causes 
which keep up diffusion in or into the plant. 

Let us suppose that in any cell there exists at the moment a liquid 
containing in solution all the food of vegetation. If now carbonic 
acid and water unite to form dextrin, and this solidifies in the shape 
of starch or cellulose, there is formed in this cell a vacuum which 
disturbs the osmotic equilibrium of the whole plant, and determines 
a movement towards this cell of carbonic acid from the leaf cells and 
of water from the root cells to restore the same. 

An atom of lime coming in contact with newly formed oxalic acid 
combines with it to form an insoluble salt; the lime thus removed 
from solution is at once replaced from an adjacent cell; this again 
supplies itself from another in the direction of the soil, until the 
extremity of a rootlet is reached, and here an atom passes in from 
the soil water, this again to be replaced from the surrounding stores. 

The vast amount of water that is removed by evaporation (the 
attraction of dry air for water) from the foliage of vegetation is in 
the same manner supplied from the soil, and it traverses in its upward 
way all the cells of the plant. The supply of saline matters is 
however partially or wholly independent of this ascending current of 
water, for it must be very greatly checked in circumstances where 
the atmosphere is saturated with moisture, as in a conservatory or 
Wardian case, although here growth goes on with the greatest vigor. 

It thus appears that whenever any chemical or physical change 
occurs in the plant, we have the origin of a disturbance which may 
set in motion the juices of the cells, the water, and dissolved matters 
of the soil, and the gases of the atmosphere. 

In this manner our cultivated plants are able to gather their food 
from solutions like the water of springs and wells, or the aqueous 
extract of soils, which are so dilute that but one part of potash or 
phosphoric acid is present in one or even twenty thousand parts of 
water. So, too, we may find in plants, substances which it is im- 
possible to detect in the soil, and it is not a little interesting that 
iodine, a substance largely employed in medicine and photography, 
is almost entirely procured from the ashes of sea-weeds, although it 
has never yet been detected with certainty in sea-water, even by 
the use of methods that would enable the chemist to find it, did it 
form but one part in a million. 

12 



178 LECTURES ON 



LECTURE IY. 

IMPROVEMENT OF THE SOIL BY TILLAGE, DRAINAGE, AMENDMENTS, AND 

FERTILIZERS. 

Having attempted to define at length the reasons of fertility in the 
soil, we may appropriately recapitulate this part of our subject in 
order to set in a clearer light the means of improvement. 

1. A fertile soil must contain all the mineral matters (ash) of the 
plant. 

2. It must include a certain store of atmospheric ingredients, viz: 
organic matters or their equivalents — ammonia or nitrates — in short, 
some store of nitrogen, and usually of carbon. 

3. It must contain these matters in an available or assimilable form, 
i. c, in a certain degree of solubility in water, thus yielding them to 
vegetation as rapidly as required. 

4. The soil must be free from noxious substances. 

5. Must possess favorable physical characters, be neither too porous 
nor compact, neither too wet nor too dry; must afford a congenial 
home and lodgment for the plant. 

It is comparatively rare that these conditions are perfectly fulfilled 
in nature, or if they exist in any given place at a certain time they 
suffer disturbance after a longer or shorter period. Hence the ancient 
and wide spread art of cultivation or improving the soil. Hence, 
too, the immense practical importance of a scientific, i. e., accurate 
and complete understanding of the conditions of fertility and of the 
means of communicating or restoring them. 

The method of improvement, like the characters of the soil, fall 
naturally into the two classes, mechanical or physical, and chemical. 

The first class of improvement comprehends tillage, drainage, and 
mixture. 

In the second class is included whatever contributes to the nourish- 
ing qualities of the soil, either by direct addition of the food of plants, 
or of agents that collect, solve, or otherwise prepare this food, as 
manures and amendments. 

This division, though warranted for convenience of study, has no 
practical existence, for the chemical and physical phenomena of 
nature are always so intimately associated that their rigorous sepa- 
ration is, in most cases, impossible. 

In a very fertile soil it is only needful to deposit the seed in favor- 
able circumstances as regards temperature and weather, and in due 
>time the harvest is ready. In such a soil there is a sufficient store 
■of plant food, and all the external conditions of rapid vegetable 
growth. In the poorer soil, in most soils, in fact, there is some want 
to be. supplied, some improvement to be attempted. The first step 
in meliorating the soil, the one almost universally indispensable even 
in fertile soils, as a preparation for the seed and young plant — the 
step always first made in practice and the one in general first required 
by •enlightened .theory, is tillage. 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 179 

The operations of tillage, viz: spading, ploughing, harrowing, &c, 
have the mechanical effect to break up and admix the earth. They 
convert the surface compacted by rain and sun into a loose and friable 
mould suitable for the deposition of the seed and for the enlargement 
of the roots of the young plant. Beyond this, these operations, really, 
though but to a slight extent, mechanically lessen the size and increase 
the number of the earthy particles. 

It is chiefly the loosening of the earth and the consequent better 
admission of water and air, which facilitate the disintegrating effect 
of these atmospheric agents, whereby, as already explained, the rock 
fragments are decomposed and dissolved with perpetual increase of 
the stores of assimilable food. 

Tillage likewise assists, in the same manner, in converting any 
poisonous matters into innocuous or even salubrious forms. Soluble 
salts of protoxyd of iron, which might accumulate in the deeper soil, 
are, by exposure to oxygen, changed into insoluble and harmless com- 
binations. Exposure of the soil by tillage to the atmosphere also has 
the effect to increase the absorption of ammonia, and to hasten the 
process of nitrification. 

Finally, the circulation of water and the consequent distribution 
of plant food, the removal of excessive moisture after rains, and the 
absorption of water vapor after droughts, as well as the regulation 
of the temperature of the soil, are promoted to a most advantageous 
degree. 

In that stage of agricultural which first follows upon pastoral or 
migratory husbandry, the simplest modes of cultivation are the only 
ones practiced ; the amount of tillage is small, just sufficient to prepare 
way for the seed, and it is accomplished by the rudest implements. 

With the progress of the arts, ploughing, harrowing, &c, are em- 
ployed to a greater extent. The implements used in these operations 
are improved in construction, and adapted to all varieties and situa- 
tions of soil, so that they may be worked at a greater depth and more 
frequently, as well as at a reduced cost. 

A matter of great importance in tillage is to secure a proper depth 
of soil. It is obvious that, other things being equal, the deeper the 
soil the more space the roots of crops have in which to extend them- 
selves, and the more food lies at their disposal. By deep culture new 
farms are discovered beneath the old, and it is possible to realize the 
apparent absurdity of "more land to the acre.'' 

Deep culture is one of the most efficacious means of counteracting 
drought, as we shall notice presently in discussing drainage. 

Deep tillage is not, however, always practiced. The grain fields of 
Germany, even in the most carefully tilled provinces, as Saxony, are 
to this day mostly ploughed with rude wooden tools often not unlike 
those figured in classical dictionaries as in vogue among the ancients, 
Avhich merely score up the soil to the depth of two, three, or rarely 
four inches. In our country, which surpasses every other in the real 
merit of its agricultural implements, and Avhere the means of deep 
tilth are in the hands of every farmer, tillage is notwithstanding 



180 LECTURES ON 

shallow m the main, and our agricultural journals arc often occupied 
with discussions as to the advantage or disadvantage of deep culture. 

There are. indeed, some instances in which deep ploughing is in- 
jurious, either permanently, or as most generally happens for a short 
period. In the latter case the temporary injury most often turns out' 
to be a lasting benefit. 

Where a thin surface soil of fair quality rests upon a gravel or other 
leachy stratum, too deep ploughing may, so to speak, knock the 
bottom out of the soil, i. e., by breaking through into the open sub- 
soil, may injure the retentive capacity of the upper soil for water and 
manures. In case the sub-soil is of a "cold" ochery, noxious char- 
acter, the bringing it to the surface may occasion detriment for the 
time. 

The plough is the instrument most extensively employed for tillage, 
and the one to which recourse must be had whenever large fields are 
to be broken up. In ordinary ploughing the soil is inverted, and ac- 
cording to its texture more or less pulverized and mellowed to a depth 
of from three to six inches. Trench ploughing consists in a similar in- 
versing of the soil to a considerably greater depth, as far as one foot or 
more, and is practiced to advantage where the soil is good to this 
depth, especially with the view of bringing up manures which are sup- 
posed to descend and accumulate below. Sub-soil ploughing is intended 
merely to break up and loosen the lower soil without bringing it to the 
surface. The sub-soil plough is merely a narrow share or wedge that 
follows the furrow of the common plough, and disturbs the ordinary 
plough bed to the depth of several inches. Its employment is expen- 
sive and less in vogue than it was a few years ago. It is mainly 
useful where the sub-soil is with difficulty penetrable to water. 

In garden culture, or even in field culture in certain countries, as 
in parts of Italy where labor is cheap, spading and forking are em- 
ployed instead of ploughing, and with great advantages in heavy soils, 
because the tread of beasts ol' draught is entirely avoided, and the 
soil is much more throughly pulverized, intermixed and loosened up. 

After ploughing and if need be cross-ploughing, the harrow, 
scarifier or cultivator, some form of toothed implement, is drawn over 
the field to accomplish a sufficiently perfect comminution and levelling 
of the surface for the seed-bed. On heavy clays which, especially 
in vet weather, are thrown up by the plough in tenacious lumps that 
further harden in the wind and sun, the clod crusher, a system of 
toothed disks revolving at a little distance from each other on a com- 
mon center, at right angles to the line of draught is employed. 

On very light soils the roller is used to make the earth more com- 
pact, especially above the seed. 

In late years a countless number of modifications and not a few 
improvements in the implements and methods of tillage have been 
suggested, and to a greater or less degree employed, in practical agri- 
culture; but it is not the place here to enter further into details. 

In certain localities, tillage may completely and profitably replace 
all other means of improving the soil. 

It is obvious that with each harvest there is removed from the soil 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 181 

a quantity of potash, lime, phosphoric acid, and other fixed mineral 
matters, and likewise more or less ammonia and nitric acid. With 
every crop the field yields, its own stores of fertility arc drawn upon, 
and, in fact, lessened, and after a certain number of crops are gath- 
ered, the available food of most soils is so far diminished that the 
succeeding crops fail of full development; in other words, the soil is 
exhausted. By exhaustion in a practical sense is meant, be it noticed, 
no absolute removal of plan! (nod. but such a relative diminution as 
causes the harvests to fall below a medium or standard yield. 

It is the business of culture to replace this spent material, to restore 
the capacity of the soil, to keep it up year after year to a remunera- 
tive degree of productiveness. 

Jethro Tub, a. distinguished Englishman, who worked and wrote in 
the last century, was led to adopt the theory — not at all improbable, 
viewed from the scientific stand-point of his day — that the impalpably 
fine particles of earth are the real food of vegetation, and accordingly 
he sought to fit the soil for a more rapid and perfect nutrition by 
pulverizing it. He introduced the horse-hoe, or cultivator, into 
English husbandry, and actually succeeded, by the diligent use of his 
improved implements, and by a. peculiar mode of occupying his field, 
in obviating the necessity of any manures and in raising successive 
crops on the same field uninterruptedly for twelve years. He failed, 
however, in maintaining this system for a longer time, having adopted 
one fatal rule, "never plough below the staple." It is but just to 
the memory of this eminent agricultural philosopher to explain why 
he adhered to a notion to us so absurd. Tull was aware of the im- 
portant part played by the atmosphere in the nutrition of plants. 
The use of stirring and pulverizing the soil was to enable the parti- 
cles of earth to attract from the atmosphere "the nitre or acid spirit 
of the air," which, in his view, further dissolves and prepares the 
soil to support vegetation. He had no chemistry to teach him that 
the indispensable mineral matters of the soil exist in it in such 
minute quantity, and are therefore liable to exhaustion. He had no 
analytical data to reveal the difference between the chemical statics 
of the vineyard — from the sagacious observation of which his theory 
originated — and the wheat field, which more largely robs the soil of 
alkalies and phosphates, and so he found it reasonable to use only 
that portion of the soil — the staple or usual tilth — to which the atmos- 
phere has obvious access. 

The system of Tull has, however, been revived, and, with the modi- 
fications suggested by. modern science, has been eminently successful 
in the hand of its ingenious advocate, the Rev. S. Smith, of Lois 
Weedon, Northamptonshire, England. Mr. Smith has produced large 
wdieat crops continuously on the same soil for a series of years by 
simply laying off his fields in strips five feet wide, and -rowing his 
crops in drills, with frequent and deep hoeing, on alternate strips in 
successive years. The tillage of the vacant strip this year prepares 
it to sustain a crop next year — enables the solution and absorption of 
'food enough to feed a full crop. 

By this" plan of culture Mr. Smith raised the yield of his wheat 



182 LECTURES ON 

grounds from 16 bushels to an average (for ten years) of 34 bushels 
per acre. Although he asserts that he has never known this pi n — 
which differs from Tull's chiefly in the depth of tillage — to fail where 
carried out according to his directions, it is easy to see that not every 
soil will admit of its successful application, even independently of 
considerations of cost. This method demands for its success that the 
soil be so deep and so readily decomposable that the plant may find 
its needful supplies in one-half the accustomed superficies, and there- 
fore must possess physical properties that, under the treatment, are 
in the highest degree favorable to vegetation. 

On large holdings the maintenance of such an amount of assimilable 
food as constitutes the soil fertile, is often profitably accomplished by 
the ancient practice of summer-fallow, which is the same thing for a 
whole farm as the vacant strips in the Lois Weedon system are for 
the wheat fields. A field is left void of crops, and is repeatedly 
ploughed and harrowed during the whole of one summer, generally re- 
ceiving the seed of some winter grain in the autumn. The fallow is 
thus an extra period of rest for the soil — enables it to accumulate 
within itself a store of fertility against future harvests, and is often 
attended with collateral advantages that alone are sufficient to war- 
rant its employment, viz., the destruction of weeds, insects, and the 
improvement of the texture of the soil. 

In many situations these processes of tillage are so laborious or in- 
effectual that recourse must be had to other operations to change* 
radically the characters of the soil. 

Heavy clays, especially in a moist climate, are very difficult of 
tillage from their peculiar physical qualities. In spring time they 
become so exceedingly tenacious and compacted by the rains, that 
they dry with extreme slowness.* While wet they resist any attempt 
at pulverization, because if ploughed in that condition the plastic up- 
turned masses harden in drying to intractable clods. It hence results 
that heavy clays need to be tilled when they have arrived at a certain 
stage of dryness, and then the operation of ploughing is exceedingly 
laborious, while the full preparation of the seed-bed is brought late 
into the season. As clay soils dry, the surface is baked into a crust 
which impedes the circulation of water, and which, shrinking and 
cracking apart in innumerable places, ruptures the rootlets of plants. 
Is is especially difficult to induce a deep tilth in such soils, so that 
during protracted drought the crops suffer greatly on them. 

When clays are not continuous in depth, but rest upon a gravelly 
and open sub-soil; or when, by art; underground channels are pro- 
vided for the removal of surplus water, these impediments to tillage 
and to profitable culture are greatly lessened or entirely removed. 

Many soils of lighter character, and in wet climates, sandy soils 
even, are remarkably benefited by artificial provision for the removal 
of surplus or bottom water. 

It is but a few years since the introduction into general practice of 
a system of drainage intended to effect this purpose took place in 
Great Britain, James Smith, of Deanston, Scotland, led by an in- 
ductive study of the evils, and the true means to be employed in the 



AGRICULTURAL CIIEMISTRY. 183 

improvement of cold soils, devised what, under the name of Thorough 
Drainage, has become one of the most useful appliances in cultiva- 
tion. 

Thorough drainage consists essentially in constructing underground 
channels, sufficient in number and size, for the removal of surplus 
water down to a certain depth. A clay field, for example, has a 
system of parallel ditches dug in it, three or four feet in depth, and 
sixteen to thirty feet apart. These have such an inclination, and so 
connect with cross or main ditches, as to give the water that may 
collect in them a ready discharge. The bottoms of the ditches are 
then filled with small stones to the depth of about one foot, or have 
carefully laid in them a pipe of baked clay, (drain tile,) one to three 
inches in diameter, and are thereupon filled up with earth. These 
channels at once discharge the water of rains and melting snows when 
the soil is sufficiently porous; and if at first, as happens with clays, 
the soil is too retentive to allow the ready removal of water, this evil 
mends itself in a year or two. We know that a mass of clay exposed 
to the air in dry weather gradually dries off superficially, and ap- 
pears full of minute fissures or larger rifts. In time it becomes 
entirely friable; and if water be poured on it the liquid, for the most 
part, rapidly filters through. It is only by a prolonged immersion in 
water that the dried clay absorbs so much of it as to become tenacious 
and plastic again. The under drains are the effectual means of drying 
out the clay soil to such a point that excess of water flows oif without 
hindrance, and they are no less effectual in preventing the recurrence 
of a too retentive state. 

The fact that we are in possession of extended treatises on drain- 
age, renders it unnecessary to do more here than to allude to some 
of the more striking results of this sj'stem which have been observed 
in practice, and to indicate their scientific explanation. 

One of the most important effects of thorough drainage consists in 
tempering the extremes of moisture and dryness, of heat and cold, 
so that a drained soil is dryer in the wet seasons and moister in the 
dry seasons' — is warmer in cold weather, and cooler in hot weather, 
than an undrained soil. 

The result of the rapid removal of surplus water on the soil is such, 
as enables it to be tilled from two to four weeks earlier in the spring 
than might otherwise happen, a gain which, in cold climates or back- 
ward spring-times, is often the saving of a crop. 

The vast mass of water that is thus removed without evaporation 
corresponds to a large increase in the amount of heat which may 
accumulate in the soil, an increase that is not only perceived in the 
rapid growth of vegetation after the ground is prepared for seed, but 
also is manifest in the earlier melting of snows. The official inquiries 
of the Royal College of Rural Economy of Prussia show that the 
snow in that country thaws away on the average one week earlier on 
drained than on contiguous undrained land. 

It is said that Smith, of Deanston, was led to his study of drainage 
by an observation made on ridged fields. From time immemorial it 
has been a custom in some countries, especially in those overrun by 



184 LECTURES ON 

Roman civilization, to ridge up the fields by the plough, thus bringing 
the soil into beds of a rod or thereabouts in width, which are several 
inches higher in the centre than at the edges. It was observed that 
in time of dry weather the plants stationed upon the centre of the 
ridges fared best, while those at the borders were liable to suffer, 
although it might be supposed they occupied the most favorable 
position, so far as access to the subterranean moisture is concerned. 
On a moment's reflection, it is obvious that the deeper the "staple" 
or penetrable friable soil is, the greater space will be occupied by 
the rootlets of plants, .and the larger will be the supplies of capillary 
moisture; so that if the soil under the influence of protracted drought 
becomes surface-dry to the depth of one inch or two inches, less in- 
jury will accrue to the crop whose roots are diffused through a deep 
soil than to one stationed in a shallow tilth. The fact seen in the 
ridged fields is far more plainly exhibited on comparing drained and 
undrained lands. In fact, drainage is recognized, among practical 
farmers, as the best protection against drought. Not only does it 
regulate the use of the water which falls upon the fields as rain, but 
by exposing an immense amount of absorbent surface to the atmos- 
phere, which freely permeates the drained soil, large quantities of 
water are collected and condensed from the vapor of the air. It has 
been recently observed at Hinxworth, England, that the flow of 
water from drains sometimes increases considerably when the baro- 
meter falls, although no rain-fall has occurred. 

The various chemical advantages that have been already attributed 
to tillage, viz: aeration of the soil, solution and preparation of plant- 
food, oxydation of unwholesome matters, are evidently to be antici- 
pated from drainage in an eminent degree. In wet climates it is 
found to be the best preparation for effectual tillage, and where the 
condition of the soil requires it, the indispensable pre-requisite to 
profitable husbandry. 

The tenacious and intractable characters of clay soils are also effec- 
tually overcome by the operation of heat — by burning the clay. A 
heat of redness expels the combined water of clay, and destroys for- 
ever its tenacity. A part of the soil is converted into something like 
brick-dust, and the admixture of a small proportion of this is suffi- 
cient to amend the heaviest soils. The same burning likewise makes 
soluble the alkalies, and, in fact, nearly all the fixed mineral matters 
of the cla^y, thus rendering it more fertile by increasing its power of 
feeding vegetation. 

It often happens that contiguous soils are greatly improved by 
mixing together. A few loads of clay remedy the too great porosity 
of a sand, and vice versa. 

The physical characters of the soil being set to rights, the next 
point is to feed the plant. So soon as crops "fall below a certain unre- 
munerative rate of yield, which, in most soils, happens in a few years, 
other means of improvement, viz: manures, are called into requisition. 

We have already spoken of tillage as a substitute for manure; but 
the word manure originally included tillage, coming from the French 



AGRICULTURAL CIIEMISTRY. 185 

manmivrcr, {main ouvrer,) or Latin manus operor, signifying to work 
with the hands, a sense in which it was employed by Milton. The 
term manure is now used in a general way to signify any substance 
added to the soil to make it more productive. 

Substances added in large quantity often act chiefly by qualifying 
the physical properties of the soil, and are then appropriately termed 
Amendments. Matters which operate in the main by feeding vegeta- 
tion are more properly Fertilizers. These again may nourish directly, 
by supplying at once to the growing plant one or all the nutrient in- 
gredients it requires; or indirectly, by making soluble the stores of 
the soil, or otherwise disposing them to assume assimilable forms, or 
by absorbing matters from the atmosphere. Most manures combine 
these various offices to a greater or less degree. 

While the popular name of those materials that are successfully 
employed as manures is legion, the chemist, by his analysis, recog- 
nizes in them all only the same dozen kinds of matter which consti- 
tute plants and soils. 

The use of manures has been known from the earliest times, and 
there has been no lack of attempts to explain their effects; but it is 
only after the sciences of chemistry and vegetable physiology had 
entered upon the modern development that it was possible to begin 
understanding their mode of action. So difficult is the subject that 
we are as yet by no means advanced to its full comprehension, which 
requires a complete knowledge of the relations of each nutritive 
element and compound with the plant, with the soil, and with the 
atmosphere. 

During all the centuries in which agricultural experience, with 
reference to the operation of manures, has accumulated, we find that 
the opinions of practical farmers have been almost endlessly at 
variance; and as these conflicting opinions have faithfully reflected 
the facts and phenomena which have presented themselves to agri- 
culturists, we are prepared to find that at the present day there is 
a constant recurrence of endlessly differing results in the use and 
estimate of manures. We find in our current agricultural journals 
abundant examples of crops being benefited by application of nearly 
every one of the ash ingredients of the plant, as well as by ammonia 
and nitrates, or bodies yielding these; and, on the other hand, re- 
peated instances of their failure. A scientific consideration of these 
results enables us to explain much that is obscure, and reconcile 
much that is conflicting, by taking into the account differences of soil, 
climate, and crop; and by a careful study of the circumstances which 
alter cases to such a great degree, it will be possible, in time, to 
unfold every mystery and elucidate every variety of effect. 

The space at command here docs not allow any detail with refer- 
ence to the action of manures, except as may illustrate some of the 
general principles which alone can serve to initiate us into the 
method of their operation. 



183 LECTURES ON 

These general principles are the following: 

1. Plants require various kinds of fixed mineral matters, and derive 
the same exclusively from the soil. 

The only exceptions to this statement are, perhaps, to be found in 
case of chlorine and sodium, which appear to be carried inland from 
the sea in the direction of prevailing winds, both in the spray and 
dissolved in the vapor that ascends from the ocean. 

2. Some plants which, in the natural state, derive a large portion of 
the volatile elements of their structure — viz: carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and 
nitrogen — from the air, must be supplied with much more of these matters 

from the soil, in agricultural production. 

As already remarked, the increased supply of these matters by the 
soil is requisite only to insure that rapid and abundant growth which 
constitutes agricultural production. 

The very fact of an artificially increased supply of food to plants, 
in connexion with the care otherwise provided by cultivation, in a few 
generations enlarges their capacity for assimilating nutriment, greatl} 7 " 
increases the mass of vegetable matter that can develop on a given 
surface, and, in consequence, makes a fertile soil necessary for exhib- 
iting the capabilities of the crop. Many of our agricultural plants are 
the result of high cultivation, including, as one of its most efficient 
factors, a fertile, and, in most cases, artificially fertilized soil. The 
wretched weeds from which our numerous varieties of turnip, ruta- 
baga, kohl rabi, cauliflower, broccoli, and cabbage have been derived, 
are hardly recognizable as the originals of so many useful plants, 
and these, as well as the wild egilops of southern Europe, from which 
the wheat grain appears to have come, are no less inferior to the cul- 
tivated plants, in appearance and value, than is the soil required for 
their natural development, to that demanded in their agricultural pro- 
duction. 

3. Different plants require different proportions of these substances for 
their luxuriant growth. 

4. Different plants require different absolute quantities of food to ma- 
ture a full crop. 

These propositions are illustrated by the accompanying table, 
which represents, in average figures, the weight, in pounds, of total 
produce, and of the chief ingredients, removed annually from an acre of 
good land, in case of several of the more commonly cultivated crops. 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 



187 





o 
u 


d 

ho 

o 


CS 

a> 

"3 

£3 


72 

'u 

o3 
o 

O 

-a 
a, 

CO 

O 

.a 


co 
C3 

O 


.2 

CD 

a 

CS 

S 
•a 

a 
o 

g 


■4 
35 


"Wheat— 


1,840 

4,000 

6,440 


34 
14 


32 
207 


15 

8 


10 
39 


5 
11 


4 
145 


Straw 






Total 


48 


239 


23 


49 


16 


1 45 J 




Rye— 


1,470 
3.500 

4,970 


28 
12 


25 
140 


12 

4 


9 

27 


4 
9 


4 

93 








Total 


40 


165 


16 


36 


13 


93* 




Beans — 


1,840 
2,700 

4,540 


76 
33 


60 
138 


20 
14 


27 
34 


8 
50 


h 




134 






Total 


109 


198 


34 


61 


58 


14 


Beets- 


36,800 
9,200 


88 
26 


353 
173 


22 
11 


158 
69 


40 

28 


20 




12 






Total 


46,000 


114 


526 


33 


227 


68 


32 




1 




6.000 


130 


390 


25 


105 


121 


21 








4,000 


53 


246 


13 


58 


62 


78 







This table shows, that, other things being supposed equal, a supply 
of nitrogen sufficient for a full rye crop would answer but for one- 
third of a clover or beet crop; the phosphoric acid sufficient for a 
meadow is but little more than half enough for a wheat field, and 
only one-third as much as a crop of beans requires. It appears that 
the potash which would fully nourish a crop of wheat is nearly enough 
for grass or beans; while for clover twice, and for beets four-and-a- 
half times as much is needful. A clover crop demands almost ten 
times as much lime and magnesia as suffices for rye, and a wheat crop 
must have more than ten times as much silica as serves the growth 
of an equal yield of beans. 

The erroneous conclusions which a hasty deduction might bring 
out of the foregoing instructive table are checked by the fact ex- 
pressed in the next proposition, viz: 

5. Different plants, from peculiarities in their structure, draw differ- 
ently on the same stores of nutriment. 

There are some plants which flourish on the poorest soils, being 
adapted to resist the extremes of drought, and accumulate their food 



188 LECTURES ON 

under what are, for nearly all agricultural plants, the most unfavor- 
able conditions. Rye, for example, will grow well where wheat is 
utterly unprofitable. Buckwheat yields a fair crop on exceedingly 
poor soils; and the lupine is so extraordinary in this respect that by 
its help the farmer may cover the most desolate blowing sands with 
a luxuriant vegetation. 

On the other hand, some crops are easily spoiled by overfeeding. 
Thus wheat, and the slender-stemmed grains generally, are unremu- 
nerative on the newly broken up prairies of our west, while maize 
flourishes even on the richest soils, being in practical language "a 
rank feeder." 

It is plain that, other things being equal, a plant with long-branch- 
ing numerous roots does not require so rich a soil as one with these 
organs short and few, because it has a greater mass of earth at its 
disposal out of which to collect its food. 

Again, those plants which expose to the air a large leaf surface 
should, other things being equal, flourish better than the sparsely- 
leaved plants in a soil poor in atmospheric elements. 

A plant which is of slow, regular, and protracted growth may, in 
the same manner, organize more vegetable matter on a given soil 
during a summer than one which quickly runs through all the stages 
of its life, and therefore requires more rapid supplies of food — de- 
mands more in a given time. 

In general, also, those crops which produce seed require a better 
soil for their continuous production than such ;is yield only foliage. 

6. Different soils abound or are deficient, to « greater or less degree, in 
one or more needful ingredients in assimilable farm. 

With the original differences of soils are to be likewise classed the 
changes in condition which tillage and cropping arc perpetually 
inducing. By the continued removal of crops the soil suffers a dimi- 
nution of its resources, and often some one or a few of the nutritive 
elements are soon brought to a minimum, while the others still remain 
in quantity sufficient for hundreds of harvests. According to the 
original composition of the soil, the failing ingredient may be potash 
in one case, sulphuric acid in another, lime in another; and applica- 
tion of these substances, respectively, may then form the most profit- 
able manuring. 

1. It appears from experience that the ingredients which are rarest in 
the soil — which are therefore most liable to exhaustion, and most needful 
to be replaced — are, in general, phosphoric acid, assimilable nitrogen, (be it 
in the form of ammonia or nitric acid,) and potash. 

The substances just named are therefore important ingredients in 
all those manures by whose continued and exclusive use the soil is 
kept fertile, and constitute the chief part of such fertilizers as bring 
up exhausted lands to immediate and remarkable, though it be tem- 
porary, productiveness. 

The above is intended as a very general statement, the truth of 
which, as such, is not invalidated by the numerous and important 
exceptions which occur. 

In examining the question of the direct action of manures, we have 
first to notice the value of deductions from the composition of a sub- 



AGRICULTUKAL CHEMISTRY. 189 

stance as to its fertilizing effect. Can we, by the study of the com- 
position of a crop, decide what manure is most likely to benefit it ? 
or can we determine, from the composition of a manure, what crop it 
is best adapted for ? The answer to these questions is, in many 
cases, No ! In laying down the general principles which are to be 
regarded in a rational theory of manuring, we have had frequent 
occasion to make the truth of a proposition depend upon "other 
things being equal." Now it happens, unfortunately for the sim- 
plicity of our science, that "other things" are often in the highest 
degree unequal and unlike, so that we must busy ourselves with the 
slow work of induction from facts mostly yet to be extricated by toil- 
some experiment from their present confusion, rather than incumber 
theory and disgust practice by generalizing deductions that cannot 
fail to be premature and erroneous. There are many cases in which 
the effect of a fertilizer can be immediately connected with its com- 
position. It not ^infrequently happens that pasture lands from which 
the only matters agriculturally removed are the ingredients of cheese, 
after long use, deteriorate, refuse to nourish dairy animals, and be- 
come nearly worthless. The' use of bones or phosphatic manures 
restores such fields to perfect pastusage; and the explanation afforded 
by chemistry — viz: that all the phosphate of lime put in the milk as 
a provision for the formation of the bones of a young animal is 
permanently alienated from the soil in the exports of cheese, so 
that exhaustion of this substance is caused, unless phosphates be ap- 
plied — is entirely satisfactory. 

The leguminous plants, though the richest in nitrogen of all our 
crops, do not by any means require nitrogenous manure to the extent 
demanded by wheat, which removes from the soil but one-half as 
much, or less, of this substance. The difference here is obviously 
due to the fact that the leguminous plants have deeper roots, more 
foliage, and a longer period of growth. 

Leguminous plants are rich in lime and sulphur, and hence are 
often remarkably grateful for applications of gypsum. Fruit and 
shade trees yield an ash largely consisting of carbonate of lime, and 
their growth, especially on meager sandy soils, is often wonderfully 
enhanced by the accident of some oyster shells or old mortar being 
thrown on the ground over their roots. 

The grasses and grains contain a large amount of silica in their 
stems and leaves; but the artificial use of soluble silicates of potash 
and soda has rarely been attended with more benefit than that of the 
corresponding chlorids, and for the reason that silica is so universally 
distributed. 

Mr. Lawes, of England, found that on his farm wheat might be 
grown for a dozen years or more in succession on the same field, and 
give an average crop of 17 bushels per acre, without manure; while 
a contiguous field, planted in turnips, in three years came to yield 
scarcely anything. Mr. Lawes then found that, by the use of nitro- 
genous manures, the wheat crop was at once doubled, while the 
turnip crop was hardly affected; and, on the other hand, a mixture 
of sulphate and soluble phosphate of lime (super-phosphate of lime) 



190 LECTURES ON 

had little influence on the wheat crop, but at once raised the turnip 
field to a considerable degree of productiveness. These facts, borne out 
by the quite general result of practice, indicate the conclusion which 
some eminent authorities have unhesitatingly adopted, that soluble 
phosphate of lime exercises a specific action on the turnip, indepen- 
dent of the actual need of this plant for phosphates. There are, 
however, such grounds for doubting this doctrine that, until further 
investigations give us more complete data for judgment, a decision 
must be suspended. 

Some recently described experiments of Mr. Lawes on the effect of 
fertilizers upon meadows are very interesting. He found that when 
a manure consisting of phosphates and sulphates of lime, potash, 
soda, and magnesia was applied to grass land, the development of 
clover was at once astonishingly increased; while, when nitrogenous 
manures were used, either alone or in addition to the above mixture, 
the true grasses maintained the mastery. 

The attempt made not long since to manure, plants with mixtures 
representing what is taken off the field by a crop, turned out unsatis- 
factorily, as the facts we have instanced make evident such a scheme 
must; and we are led every day more and more to seek explanations 
of the anomalous effects of manures in their indirect action. 

The most familiar instance of indirect action is that of gypsum or 
sulphate of lime. In contact with carbonate of ammonia, with so 
much water as to make the mixture wet, an interchange of ingredients 
takes place, so that sulphate of ammonia and carbonate of lime are 
formed; and Liebig accounted in part for the beneficial operation of 
gypsum by assuming that it thus "fixed" the volatile carbonate of 
ammonia of rains and dews, and held it in the soil for the use of 
vegetation. 

On the other hand, Boussingault showed that when the mixture of 
sulphate of ammonia and carbonate of lime, from being wet, dries so 
far that it is only moist, like the soil is ordinarily, the reverse decom- 
position ensues, and the ammonia once fixed, is unfixed. While we 
can conceive of circumstances in which both these properties come 
into play, beneficially or otherwise, it must be remembered that the 
more late discovered absorbent power of the soil sets these effects of 
gypsum quite out of the account in nearly all cases. 

Humus, which, in the form of peat or swamp muck, or as resulting 
from the decay of litter and the carbonacious ingredients of the ex- 
crements of cattle, is a most common and useful manure, doubtless 
accomplishes more by indirect than by immediate action. It is the 
most energetic absorbent of ammonia, as carbonate (according to 
Brustlein, not of other salts) is the source of carbonic acid in the 
soil, thus, by its presence, setting in operation the endless train of 
changes whose result is the solution of mineral matters, and by its 
hygroscopic character it assists to maintain the proper physical con- 
dition of the soil. 

Lime, which is one of the greatest renovators in use in agriculture, 
is, in a similar manner, of more indirect than immediate effect. Its 
influence is especially manifest in fluxing the insoluble stores of plant- 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 191 

food, and compelling the soil to yield its ingredients to the support of 
vegetation. 

Ammonia, when acting on the soil as carbonate, (coming from the 
decomposition of urea, uric acid, and other nitrogenous bodies,) is not 
inferior to lime in its solvent effects. 

Gypsum, common salt, carbonate of lime, nitrates of potash and 
soda, and in fact all the saline compounds which are incorporated with 
the soil in manures, may exert important physiological effects on the 
plant in addition to their mere nutritive function. 

We have already intimated that the transpiration of water through 
the plant is very remarkably hindered when lime, potash, or the salts 
just named are present in the absorbed liquid. This fact, observed 
for the first time by Mr. Lawes, in 1850, and recently brought 
again more strikingly into notice by Dr. Sachs, of Tharand, Saxony, 
appears to be of great importance in the theory of manures. Dr. 
Sachs experimented on various plants, viz: beans, squashes, tobacco, 
and maize, and observed their transpiration in weak solutions (mostly 
containing one per cent.) of nitre, common salt, gypsum, (one-fifth 
per cent, solution) and sulphate of ammonia. He also experimented 
with maize in a mixed solution of phosphate and silicate of potash, 
sulphates of lime and magnesia, and common salt, and likewise ob- 
served the effect of free nitric acid and free potash on the squash 
plant. The young plants were either germinated in the soil, then re- 
moved from it and set with their rootlets in the solution, or else were 
kept in the soil and watered with the solution. The glass vessel 
containing the plant and solution was closed above around the stem 
of the plant by glass plates and cement, so that no loss of water could 
occur except through the plant itself, and this loss was ascertained 
by daily weighings. The result was that all the solutions mentioned, 
except that of free nitric acid, quite uniformly retarded transpiration 
to a degree varying from 10 to 90 per cent., while the free acid ac- 
celerated the transpiration in a corresponding manner. 

As the processes of elaboration — the chemical and structural me- 
tamorphoses going on within the cells of the plant require time for 
their performance, we can easily perceive that a too rapid upward 
current of liquid, by diluting the juices, might measurably interfere 
with the assimilation of the food, and that the presence of a body 
may be no less useful by its regulating influence on the circulation of 
the water than by contributing an ingredient necessary for the forma- 
tion of the substance ol the plant itself. 

It is also obvious that if a substance added to the soil retard the 
transpiration of water through vegetation, a given store of hygro- 
scopic moisture in the soil will serve the needs of vegetation longer — ■ 
will reach further into time of drought than it otherwise could. Dr. 
Sachs found that gypsum exerted the greatest effect in preventing 
loss of water, and this observation gives a scientific ground oi evi- 
dence to the opinion long maintained among farmers, but rejected by 
men of science, (and very properly, as no cause could be discovered 
for such an effect, and the effect' is not capable of measurement in 



192 LECTURES ON 

field culture.) that gypsum has the influence of a body that attracts 
moisture. 

The facts brought to light by the researches of Way, Eichhorn, 
and Voelcker, already described, indicate another general mode by 
which fertilizers, especially soluble saline bodies, may operate indi- 
rectly. The investigations referred to, show that the bases (and 
acids?) may replace each other in insoluble or slightly soluble combi- 
nations, i. e., soluble lime may displace insoluble potash, making this 
soluble and becoming insoluble itself. Soda may, in the same manner, 
displace lime or potash, or ammonia, the rule being that the body 
in excess goes into combination and expels those before combined. 
We observe here a tendency to bring all the bases into what we may 
designate as an equilibrium of solution. This principle appears adapted 
more than any other yet discovered to generalize the phenomena of 
indirect action, and enables us to forsee and explain them. Proofs 
are not wanting of the actual operation of this principle in the soil. 

Wolff (Naturgesetzlichen Grundlagendes Ackerbaues, 3d ed., p. 148,) 
found in fact that the ashes of the straw of buckwheat grown with 
a large supply of common salt, compared with the ashes of the same 
part of that plant grown on the same soil minus this addition, con- 
tained less chlorid of sodium but much more chloric! of potassium, 
there having occurred an exchange of bases in the soil. 

Closely connected in many points with these phenomena of dis- 
placement, yet in many respects different and peculiar, are the sol- 
vent effects of saline bodies, alkalies, and carbonic acid in dilute 
watery solution, to which allusion has been so frequently made in the 
foregoing pages. We refer to this subject once more in this place 
in order to give the results of some actual trials as to the disintegrat- 
ing effect of these substances on soils and rocks. Dietrich, to whom 
we owe these investigations, found that from a diluvial loamy soil con- 
taining humus, the amount of matters rendered soluble by a dilute 
solution of carbonate of ammonia (containing one per cent, of the salt) 
was twice as great as that set free by water saturated with carbonic 
acid, and of the alkalies, potash and soda, four times as much were 
dissolved by the former as by the latter liquid. Solution of sulphate 
of ammonia dissolved six times as much as carbonated Avater. 

The action of carbonated water and carbonate of ammonia extended 
chiefly to the alkalies. Sulphate of ammonia, while equally effective 
in their solution, likewise dissolved a large amount of lime and mag- 
nesia as sulphates. Caustic lime (one per cent.) in most cases pro- 
duced a remarkable increase of volume in the earths submitted to its 
action; the loam just mentioned became nearly three times as bulky 
as it was at first, a decomposition of the silicates having taken place. 
Carbonate of lime, in solution in carbonated water, had the most 
vigorous action in eliminating the alkalies. Even gypsum, (sulphate 
of lime,) in moist contact with powdered basaltic rock, sets free a 
considerable amount of alkalies in a few days. Ammonia salts exert 
a strong action on insoluble silicates, the ammonia and silica being 
partially set free, the other acids and bases remaining in soluble com- 
binations. 



AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY. 193 

The most abundant, most generally employed, and most permanently 
useful manures are the excrements and waste of animals. These 
matters are, in fact, the residue, more or less concentrated, that 
remains from the oxydation of vegetables which have served as food. 
By the vital processes, the hydrogen and carbon of the vegetable 
nutrient principles are chiefly consumed to the gaseous form, while a 
portion of these, together with nearly all the nitrogen and all the 
fixed mineral matters, are separated from the animal in the liquid or 
solid shape, either immediately prepared, or under the agencies of 
warmth and moisture speedily assuming a suitable condition for 
nourishing a new vegetation. 

The excrements of domestic animals, containing, as they do, all the 
ingredients of plants, and those in greatest relative amount which 
vegetation is obliged to seek for in the soil, constitute the most gen- 
erally and durably efficient manure in countries like our own, where 
cattle are largely depended upon as means of supplying food. The 
dejections of man are a more concentrated and more powerful fertilizer, 
and . though less adapted for maintaining the fertility of large farms 
tilled by a few hands, because they are not associated with matters 
that amend and modify the physical characters of the soil, are a main 
reliance in countries like China, where the dense population subsists 
almost exclusively on vegetable food, and under an} - circumstances 
are an invaluable adjunct to the resources of the farmer. Human 
excreta should never be suffered to waste so long as the soil is capable 
of stimulation to higher productiveness. 

Certain animal manures, viz., those very rich in nitrogen, though 
usually exhibiting great energy of action, are liable to abuse, and often 
ultimately impoverish the farmer. Peruvian guano, the excrement 
of piscivorous sea-fowl, yielding sixteen per cent, of ammonia by the 
decomposition of its uric acid, and the flesh, blood, hair, and wool 
of animals are manures of this character. Nitrogen is their principal 
active ingredient; it passes into ammonia or nitric acid, excites a quick 
growth of vegetation by furnishing abundance of material for cell 
development, and at the same time rapidly solves the fixed minerals 
of the soil. The latter, being as rapidly removed by the vigorous 
vegetation, soon fall into a state of relative deficiency, especially on 
the poor soils where these applications exhibit their effects most 
strikingly; and unless restored by some other manure, the absence of 
them produces the phenomenon of exhaustion. 

It is an objection, indeed, commonly raised against manures con- 
taining but one or a few nutritive ingredients, that they exhaust the 
soil. Obviously it is the crops, or what is taken off the soil, that 
exhaust it; and if a manure assists a crop to rob a field, the abetting 
farmer cannot rightfully complain, so long as the price of the produce 
goes into his pocket, although, to be sure, there are various ways of 
exhausting land, some of which are vastly more profitable than others. 

The great practical lessons taught by experience and confirmed by 

science, relative to the use of manures, are, save all refuse which 

contains any of the elements of vegetation ; apply abundantly the mixed 

ingredients of the dung and compost heaps. As concerns commercial 

13 



194 LECTURES. 

and saline manures, such as guano, salt, plaster, lime, &c, experiment 
with them repeatedly and accurately on the small scale, so as to learn what 
the crops say about their value. Where phosphates have been heavily 
applied, it is probable that ammonia or nitrogenous manures, or per- 
haps lime or potash, may next exert the most beneficial action, and 
vice versa. Be sure of enough, not only as regards the quantities, but 
also the kinds of matters applied. 

But our subject requires treatment which only a volume can give 
space for. The recent progress of knowledge, thanks to the scientific 
farmers and agricultural philosophers of England, Germany, and 
France, demands a series of chapters on manures that are as yet 
unwritten, but, when rightly produced, will be alike novel, interesting, 
and useful to the true American farmer, who cultivates with equal 
assiduity the "soil and the mind." 



LECTURES 

ON THE SHELLS OF THE GULF OF CALIFORNIA. 



BY PHILIP P. CARPENTER, OP WARRINGTON, ENGLAND. 



The pearl fishery carried on by the Spaniards in the ''Sea of 
Cortez" during the 17th and 18th centuries, bore testimony to its 
richness in molluscan life. To obtain the "pearl oysters," eight 
hundred divers were regularly employed, and the annual value of the 
exports was $60,000. So exhaustive was this fishery that it was 
gradually abandoned ; and the very limited trade between the gulf 
ports and the Old World did not lead to more than the most fragmen- 
tary knowledge of its marine fauna. A few of the shells of Acapulco 
had been brought home by Humboldt and Bonpland as early as 1803 ; 
and collections had been made at various stations on the Central 
American coast by Captain Beechy and Lieutenant Belcher, R. N., in 
the voyage of the Blossom, 1825-1828 ; by MM. Du Petit Thouars, 
La Perouse, and Chiron, in the Venus, 1836-1839 ; and in the Sulphur, 
by Sir E. Belcher and Mr. Hinds, in 1836-1842. The shells of 
Panama and the coast of Ecuador, closely related to those of the Gulf 
of California, had been obtained in great abundance by Hugh Cuming, 
esq., w T hose vast collection of shells is not only by far the largest in 
the world, but, through the generous courtesy of its owner, the most 
accessible to students of every nation. Scarcely any shells, however, 
had been collected in the gulf, and indeed the records of scientific 
voyages, rich as they are in additions to our knowledge of fresh forms, 
rarely afford satisfactory data as to the fauna of any particular district. 
Unfortunately, it has been the custom, in the accounts of these voy- 
ages, only to describe the (supposed) new species ; besides which, 
the locality marks, even if accurately noted at the time, are exposed 
to many chances of error before the information is made accessible to 
the scientific world.* Whether the shells of the gulf most resembled 
those of Panama or those of California, (which Avere described by Mr. 
Conrad from collections made by the late Mr. Nuttall in 1834,) was 
still a matter of doubt up to the period of the Mexican war in 1846— '8. 
When Major Rich and Captain Green visited Mazatlan, they became 
acquainted with a Belgian gentleman, M. Reigen, who had been em- 
ploying himself in making a vast collection of the shells of that region. 
This collection ultimately passed into the hands of a merchant who 

*The works of Mr. Hinds are, however, in every respect reliable, in consequence of the 
great skill and accuracy of the lamented author. 



196 LECTURES ON 

divided it into two portions : the smaller was sent to Havre ; the 
larger, occupying no less than 560 cubic feet, to Liverpool. 

A collection of such magnitude, known to have been made only at 
one spot, had never before been thrown open to the public ; and, 
knowing that its contents were likely to afford very valuable informa- 
tion in reference to the geographical distribution of species, I em- 
braced the opportunity which circumstances afforded me to pass the 
whole under careful review. The result of my labors will be found 
in a "report on the present state of our knowledge of the mollusca of 
the west coast of North America," prepared at the request of the 
British Association for the Advancement of Science, and published in 
the volume of transactions for 1856 ; and, in a more detailed form, in 
the "descriptive catalogue of the Reigen collection of Mazatlan mol- 
lusca" printed by order of the trustees of the British Museum, 1857.* 
The best duplicate series, amounting to about 6,500 shells, I have 
lately given to the State of New York. Having come to this country to 
arrange it in the natural history rooms at Albany, Professor Henry 
requested me to visit Washington, and arrange the shells of the United 
States exploring expedition. For this difficult task, the sorting out 
of the Mazatlan shells, amounting probably to 100,000 specimens, was 
perhaps no unfit preparation. 

In the present lecture, it is proposed to confine our attention to a 
single shell from this collection. It belongs to a group nearly related 
to the oysters, and still retains the name of Spondylus given to it by 
Aristotle more than two thousand years ago, from the resemblance of 
the thorny processes outside the valves to the vertebrae of the higher 
animals. I have named the species calcifer, from the use made of it 
by the natives, who dive for it in order to burn for lime. Its solid, 
ponderous growth affords a striking contrast to the great ' ' water-clam " 
of the Pacific islands, in which the shell-layers are generally separate 
from each other, t Unfortunately the cumbrous size of these shells 
led the Liverpool dealer to dispose of the whole stock before I had an 
opportunity of examining them ; their ignominious fate being to adorn 
the "museum" of a large drinking saloon, the owner of which had 
no idea of their scientific interest, and was unwilling to part with 
any of his duplicates. The very few which fell into my possession 
proved, however, to be a little museum in themselves; each specimen 
so abounding in parasites, within and without, that I have described 
upwards of a hundred entirely new. forms of molluscan life derived 
from this source alone; besides about 250 others which had been pre- 
viously investigated, or which are not yet determined ; and a variety of 
Annelids, Crustaceans, Zoophytes, Sponges, Protozoas, Protophytes, 

°Both of these works are in the library of the Smithsonian Institution. In order 
to aid in their compilation, Mr. Herbert Ibornas purchased for me what remained of 
the Reigen collection. The first fruits of this, amounting to nearly 9,000 specimens, I 
presented to the British Museum. 

f A very remarkable specimen of this 6hell was brought home by the United States ex- 
ploring expedition, in which the free as well as the attached valve displays the long, flat, 
triangular ligament area, presenting somewhat the appearance of the gigantic fossil Pla- 
giottomata. 



THE SHELLS OF THE GULF OF CALIFORNIA. 197 

and algae, which are yet awaiting the attention of naturalists acquainted 
with those special departments. We propose first to examine the 
creatures which make their abode on the outside of these oyster 
valves. 

Certain smooth, oval spaces bear testimony to the former presence 
of many kinds of limpets. Some of those creatures, (as e.g. the Pa- 
tella Mexicana, or giant limpet, which is sometimes a foot in length 
and large enough for a basin) prefer to live on the rocks ; others are 
always found on dead shells ; others again always adhere to living- 
ones. The "circulation of water caused by the breathing currents of 
the larger animal is no doubt congenial to their tastes. Most mollusks 
have the power not only of forming, but also ot absorbing shelly 
matter ; and these limpets, by the constant action of their strong 
muscular foot, eat into the shell of the spondylus and leave a mark by 
which each species can generally be recognized. Some of them make 
regular excursions to browse on the algse and nullipore which they 
rasp off with their thousand-toothed lingual ribbon, always returning 
to their own hole to sleep ; but others appear to lead a sedentary life, 
depending, like the bivalves, on whatever nutriment the water brings 
within their reach. These, which go by the common names of ''bon- 
net," "slipper," or "cup-and-saucer" limpets, are more highly or- 
ganized than their more active neighbors ; the gill being a delicate 
little comb at the back of the neck, and the sexes being distinct. The 
Calyptrasids ("slipper" and " cup-and-saucer " limpets) found on the 
Spondylus valves are the most beautiful and varied that are known in 
any part of the world. The shells are large and thin, delicately fur- 
rowed, and as it were engine-turned with a profusion of tubercles, 
which sometimes rise up into long hollow spines. The colors vary 
from white to a rich black-brown, or are variously mottled with sienna, 
while the shape may be either an elevated cone or a widely spreading 
disk. Sometimes the same individual will begin with one form and 
sculpture-pattern, and suddenly change to another ; others again seem 
to develop permanent and widely differing varieties. Occasionally a 
starved or diseased Mazatlanian will present the aspect which is 
normal on the colder shores of South America; exchanging its thin 
texture and delicate sculpture for a coarse, solid, and nearly smooth 
shell. So far the views lately propounded with such ability by the 
celebrated author of the "Voyage of the Beagle" meet with sufficient 
confirmation ; and yet, amid all its changes, there is a habit of ' grotUth, 
hard to describe and yet easily recognized by the practised eye, which 
not only unites the most aberrant forms, but at once separates them 
from neighboring species found on the same coast and appearing very 
similar to the common observer. The ordinary plan of only preserv- 
ing in collections a few picked specimens displaying marked pecu- 
liarities, is by no means favorable to the elimination of truth in 
reference to specific variation. These extreme forms are very natu- 
rally described as. distinct species, the intermediate connecting links 
not'passing before the view of the naturalist. On showing to a dis- 
tinguished author a carefully eliminated suite of Mazatlan specimens 
connecting the smooth, thin, flat Crepidula squama, Brad, with the 



198 



LECTURES ON 



coarse, arched, laminated C. Lessonii, passing through the forms C. 
nivea, C.B. Ad. and C. striolata, like., he complained that I had "kept 
all the puzzling shells." In the very useful work of Messrs. H. and A. 
Adams on the genera of recent Mollusca, these forms appear under 
different subgenera.* It is not fair to blame authors for these mis- 
takes, which naturally result from the imperfection of the material on 
which they work. But the prevalence of such errors should lead us 
to embrace every opportunity of studying large numbers of specimens, 
both from the same and from different localities. Patience, accuracy, 
and honesty may thus render as valuable service to science as brilliant 
genius, and may supply the materials from which some master-mind 
may hereafter develop the most important generalizations. 

Those who describe species from minute differences founded on in- 
dividual specimens, might do well to study the plates appended to 
the "B. A. report on the West Coast Mollusca"" before quoted. Take, 
e.g., the Crucibulum spinosum, pi. 9. The shell is at first spiral, like 
a snail. It then surrounds its entire margin with a rim, which is the 
first beginning of what in the adult becomes the '"saucer," or outside 
shell; that is, the hardened skin of the animal's body; (for shells are not 
to be regarded as a house constructed for the animal to live in, but as an 
integral part of the animal itself, like the feathers of birds or our own 
nails and hair.) At the same time it raises a slight lamina from the 
labium, ov "pillar-lip," which ultimately becomes the "cup." At 
first, however, it is like the "deck" in the slipper limpets, from some 
species of which it can scarcely be then distinguished. The Crepidulas, 
however, continue their deck in a horizontal direction, while the Cru- 
cibulum turns the edges upwards at a more 
or less obtuse angle. Gradually, during the 
progress of adolescence, this angle becomes 
right and then acute ; the outer shell mean- 
while taking various forms, round, oblong, or 
irregular, according to the nature of the sur- 
face to which it has chosen to adhere. Often 
this immature state is continued to a late 
period; if permanent, it would belong to the 
subgenus Dispoteea (Say) of Messrs. Adams. 
But, normally, the sides of the cup close in, 
while its body becomes greatly swollen in 
front. This cup now assumes the form which 
is always characteristic of the species under every modification of ex- 
ternal growth ;' being well rounded in C. imbricatum, angular at the 
side in C. spinosum, and with the sides flattened against each other 
in C. radiatum. In C. rude, the adolescent stage is very soon com- 
pleted, and the cup is permanently detached from the side of the 
shell, forming a veritable "cup and saucer," one, too, after the fashion 
so prevalent in America, where the cup-handle has never been formed. 

*The plan adopted by D'Orbigny in his classification of Foraminifera, was to pick out 
from a large mass of material the leading forms ; which he grouped into genera, families, 
and orders. In my brother's papers on Orbitolites, &c , in the transactions of the Royal 
Society, it is shown that individuals belonging, according to D'Orbigny, to different orders 
are really aberrant forms of the same secies. 




Crucibulum imbricatum, jun. 
Interior view, showing the cup lamina 
beginning to double in. 



THE SHELLS OF THE GULF OF CALIFORNIA. 199 

It is a remarkable fact in geographical distribution, that the forms 
imbricatum and rude, which are typical in the west tropical fauna of 
Central America, reappear, but very sparingly on the Caribbean 
shores; while C. spinosum, which is far more common, more variable, 
and more widely distributed, being found (under various names) from 
California to Chili, has not yet been discovered on the eastern side. 
Again, the C. radiatum, which is the most delicately formed of the 
whole group, confines itself to the equatorial western seas, not having 
been found further north than the Panama district. 

An extremely remarkable specimen of C. spinosum was dredged 
by Mr. Cuming in comparatively deep water. The net brought up 
a large stone with a small hole in it, on looking down which Mr. C. 
perceived a number of spines as though a sea-urchin was lodging 
there. A blow of the hammer discovered the existence of a large 
cavity within, communicating with the external world only through 
this narrow opening. In the hollow of this cavity lay the limpet, 
turned, as it were, nearly inside out. The creature had gone to live 
there when young, and being of sedentary habits it did not occur to 
him that he might be imprisoned for life by his own corpulence, else 
he would probably have made his escape before he had grown too 
large. As it was he grew larger and larger, and as the walls of his 
prison rose up round him on every side, he was obliged to flatten out 
his shell till it became a plate instead of a cone. At the same time, 
his body protruding into the hollow, the cup protruded along with it 
till it stood considerably beyond the shell, of which it was normally 
an inside partition. Thus our Caljptrssid w r as fixed as immovably 
as any Pholas, but with this difference in their condition : that the 
Pholas, being designed for that kind of life, is not troubled with use- 
less head and eyes, and, moreover, is furnished with two long pipes 
to convey the water to and from the mouth and gills; while the Cruci- 
bulum had eyes simply to stare at the wall in the dark, feelers to 
push the stone, and a long ribbon tongue, armed with hundreds of 
teeth, to rasp the water. And while encumbered with these unneces- 
sary appendages, he had not the benefit of water pipes to bring what 
alone this lock-jawed subject had to feed upon. For this want, 
however, the economy of the animal provided a remedy. The C. 
spinocum, in its normal growth, is either spinose or not; the flatter 
forms being almost always smooth. The spines are developed from 
prolongations of the mantle, (or thin shell-bearing skin of the animal,) 
which appear at irregular intervals, though in a regular pattern. 
Sometimes the whole shell is covered with crowded prickles, (C. his- 
pidum, Brad.,) sometimes a very few long spines appear at the edge 
on one side of the otherwise smooth shell. Sometimes the spines are 
few, large, and hollow, (C. tubiferum, Less.,) each of the outer row 
communicating through a hole with the inner margin, which is after- 
wards filled up. Our prisoner worked for his living by constructing 
very large, long, and open spine pipes, which, instead of standing 
up at right angles to the shell, were directed back towards the narrow 
opening in the stone. It would appear that by this means the animal 
was amply supplied with nourishment, for the shell was above the 
ordinary size. 



200 LECTURES ON 

The most common Calyptrasid on the backs of our Spondylus valves, 
however, was Crepidula aculeata, Gmel. It was first described from 
West Indian specimens, which are generally dead and worn, in col- 
lections, and afterwards re-described from fine West Coast shells as 
C. hystrix and C. echinus, Brod. The stunted Northern form was 
named C. Californica by Nuttall. The rule is laid down by some 
American authors of great celebrity that no species can be common 
to the Atlantic and Pacific waters. Accordingly, when the same 
form reappears on the wrong shore, it is their custom to re-describe 
it, there being always differences by which a few individuals can be 
separated from each other. But it is well known by those who have 
examined extensive series from different localities that each locality 
may present the same species under very different aspects. A large 
number of British shells live also in the Mediterranean, but in a 
mixed collection it is generally easy to pick out northern specimens 
from their southern congeners. So again the Panama shells (of iden- 
tical species) can generally be separated from the Mazatlan; and these 
again from those of Acapulco and Cape St. Lucas. Now if the east 
and west coast shells do not differ more than those of Panama and 
Mazatlan; nay, do not differ so much as those of either place among 
themselves; it appears an argumetitum ad ignorantiam to describe 
them as distinct species^ merely because ive cannot tell how they have 
become distributed. On comparing Dr. Gould's descriptions of Pur- 
pura pansa (Pacific) and P. patula, (West Indian,) with my own well 
authenticated specimens, it appeared to me that the diagnosis of patula 
Avas exactly fitted to the Mazatlan shells, while that of pansa belonged 
rather to the shells collected by my brother at St. Vincent's. Our 
knowledge of the fauna of each region is as yet too meagre to speak 
on doubtful matters with any dogmatism, but the researches of modern 
geology have already determined the fact that in the tertiary (Miocene) 
epoch there was a communication between the two oceans; that very 
remarkable Pacific shell, Malea ringens, having been found fossil on 
the Atlantic coast. This interesting solution of a doubtful problem 
is due to the research of Dr. Newberry, and is an instructive example 
of the light which different branches of study throw upon each 
other. 

We may now be allowed to predicate that old species, which have 
survived since the Miocene epoch, may be expected to appear on both 
sides of the peninsula; while those of modern creation may be ex- 
pected to be distinct. Furthermore, the old species may be expected 
to have more power of living under varied influences, and, therefore, 
to be more variable in shape, and more widely diffused than those 
more constant and local in their characters. The history of British 
shells, which are more thoroughly known than those of any other 
district in the world, furnishes many instructive instances of these 
facts. In Mr. Searles Wood's work on the Crag Mollusca* the newer 
tertiaries are divided into the Coralline crag, the Red crag, and the 
Mammaliferous crag, (answering perhaps to the Miocene, Pleiocene, 

* Published in three parts by the British Pala^.ontographical Society, of which a copy 
is in the Smithsonian Library. 



THE SHELLS OF THE GULF OF CALIFORNIA. 201 

and Pleistocene of American authors,) in each of which we have 
species represented still living in the same seas or in the Mediter- 
ranean or Boreal districts. If the species is in mature vigor, it may 
still be found widely diffused. If, on the other hand, it be dying out 
in its general area, it may preserve a lingering existence in very 
remote localities which once were connected. Thus the Orbitolites 
of the Paris basin is still living in the East Indies, although now 
unknown in European seas; while the common gulf weed of the 
modern Atlantic is believed by Prof. Forbes to be a further develop- 
ment of the very same plant which floated (as now) in huge masses 
in the ancient ocean of the Eocene. 

When the tertiary fossils on each side of the Rocky mountains 
shall have been thoroughly explored, when the age of these moun- 
tains in the narrow isthmus shall be better understood, when the 
deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific coast shall have 
been well dredged, we may be in a position to speak with confidence 
on the points of similarity and of contrast in the two oceans. At pres- 
ent we can do little more than accumulate facts for future explanation. 

In the case of Crepidula aculeata, however, the perfect specimens 
brought by Mr. Dyson from Honduras correspond so exactly with 
those from Mazatlan that it is hardly possible to resist the impression 
that they are identical. Specimens from South Africa, from Sydney, 
(Australia,) and from the Pacific islands also present no marks of 
specific distinction. It appears to be one of the ubiquitous species, 
of which several are found in various genera, and some are known to 
have existed far back in time. Of this number is Saxicava arctica, 
which has been found in all the three epochs of the English crag; is 
now flourishing in the boreal as well as the temperate regions of Eu- 
rope and America; has been found in the China seas and in Australia, 
(C. testo, Forbes,) and attains respectable dimensions in the cavities of 
our Mazatlan Spondylus. The Crepidula not only undergoes the 
changes of form from nearly flat to deeply arched, from obese to elon- 
gate, which every observer of the common slipper-limpet of the At- 
lantic (C. fornicata, abundant from the icy shores of the St. Lawrence 
to the tropical water the Gulf of Mexico) knows to prevail in that 
species; but in sculptino it may either be crowded with short spines 
(C. echinus, Brod.;) or have a few radiating lines of longer spines witli 
nodulous interstices (C. hystrix, Brod.;) or be covered with an irregu- 
lar mass of spiny knobs (normal state;) or lose the spines altogether 
in roughened striaa (smooth-water form;) or even become almost des- 
titute of sculpture, like some northern specimens of the stunted va- 
riety (C. Californica, Nuttall.) Through all these changes it is recog- 
nized by its spiral stomatelloid growth, exemplifying a section of the 
genus the extreme forms of which approach Trochita; and by it* 
beautifully waved deck-margin, which resembles a •— -' — -*. The 
pointed centre, as the shell increases in size, generally leaves a char- 
acteristic line on the surface of the deck, passing up to the vertex. But 
often the point is rounded off, and even degenerates into a broad wave. 
In one specimen, co-ordinate with this degeneracy, a sharp angle was 
abnormally formed on one of the sides, so as to give the margin the 




202 LECTURES ON 

aspect of a brace turned the wrong way — thus ■ — ^—^ ; a very good 
specific distinction, if no intermediate specimens had been found. A 
series of deck margins, belonging to this and the following species, 
will be found represented on plate 8 of the British Association report, 
figs. 1/., Sg. 

Fig. 2. 

The best means of 
distinguish i n g the 
species of slipper- 
limpets from each 
other was found to be 

Deck margins of Crepiilula aruleata. The straight line represents the situa- l'U6 Snape 01 ILIB nu- 

tion of the medial nb. clear portion and the 

mode of growth of the very young shell. Whatever be the abnormal 
character of the adult, it did not appear that the offspring had a ten- 
dency to the same degeneracy, but rather to the resumption of the 
normal type. In the case of local varieties, the peculiarities are repro- 
duced, because they depend on circumstances which affect all alike. 
But in such cases as those under consideration, where the extremes 
and all the intermediate forms of variation are found in the same local- 
ity, the changes depending on the accidents of the individual, it is not yet 
proved that the idiosyncracies are transmitted. In fact, the frequent 
instances in which the individual itself changes its form and sculp- 
ture at different periods of its life is against such a hypothesis. In 
the higher animals, where there is, as it were, an innate vital power 
shaped according to the species, with an additional power shaped ac- 
cording to the individual, and these powers are to no slight extent 
irrespective of the immediate external surroundings, there is a much 
stronger tendency in the offspring to imitate the parent — as in the 
black faces of the Southdown sheep, or the stump -tailed cats of the 
Isle of Man. This tendency on the part of the parent to reproduce 
itself, and even that particular phase of self which obtains at the pe- 
riods of conception and gestation, culminates in man; who, of all ani- 
mals, is the most independent of external circumstances. But, in the 
lower forms of life, the nature both of the species and the individual 
becomes more and more plastic, responding to the accidents of the 
moment; there is accordingly proportionally less of the innate power 
which leads to the transmission of variety. As instances of this plas- 
ticity the reader is referred to Dr. W. B. Carpenter's papers on Or- 
bitolites and other forms of Rhizopods in the Transactions of the Royal 
Society of London. 

It is a fact worth noticing, that while some species of shells are 
extremely variable, others, inhabiting the same localities, are very 
constant in their characters. These are seldom widely diffused, and 
are often rare in individuals. A few young specimens of such spe- 
cies were found among the slipper-limpets on the Spondyli; but the 
bulk of the specimens belonged either to C. aculeata, which, as we 
have seen, is a somewhat ubiquitous species, or to C. nivea, which, 
under many shapes and many names, spreads over the principal part 



THE SHELLS OF THE GULF OF CALIFORNIA. 



20! 



of the Pacific coast of America, representing there the very distinct* 
C. fornicata of the Atlantic. Two extreme forms were first described 
by Broderip, from Mr. Cuming's collection: the one, G. squama, thin, 
flat, and smooth; the other, C. lessonii, solid, often arched, and cov- 
ered with concentric laminae. These sometimes appear at regular 
intervals, and then seem to be the normal and unique sculpture of the 
shell. It appears, however, that C. squama, (which is the calm water 
form,) if exposed to rougher influences, arches its back, adds layer 
after layer of porcellanous matter, hiding the color rays, and leaving 
the margin like the edge of a quire of paper. Now if, co-ordinate with 
this laying on of extra coats, the creature advances forward, turning 
up the previous portion, the form Lessonii is produced: in general 
very roughly and irregularly, which is the C. striolata of Menke, but 
sometimes very delicately, with fine sculpture between the laminae, 
as described by Brod. It is common to find shells living for* some 
time as squama, and suddenly plunging into the Lessonii types, with 
one or two strong laminae. Every stage of intermediate form was 
found among the Mazatlan shells. The degraded specimens of the 
Chilian seas form a part of the C. protea of D'Orbigny — a convenient 
receptacle, as the type specimens in the British Museum show, for 
the dead and puzzling shells which the author did not know where 
else to place. The ordinary condition, intermediate between the 
extremes first described, is the C. nivea of G. B. Adams. As it is 
the normal state, the usual rules of priority have been set aside, and 
C. nivea taken for the name of the species, leaving squama and Les- 
sonii for the principal varieties. The White Slipper is known under 
all forms (when in good condition) by its shaggy, light-green skin, 
and by the very peculiar character of the nuclear whirls. These are 
remarkably small, though the shell is large, standing out from the 
surface, of a reddish tinge, and crowded with regular transverse ribs. 
The characters have 
been observed in 
specimens of all the 
forms, although the 
influences which pro- 
duce Lessonii, draw- 
ing the shell away 
from the vertex, gen- 
erally lead to its ab- 
rasion. Sometimes 
the White Slipper 
goes to live, when 
young, in the empty 
burrow of a boring 
mussel. In these 
cases, as soon as it 

has grown to the Ciepidula nivea, jun.— Outside, a, nuclear spiral portion, ribbed; h, », 
• nv r •■ _ ^ margin of deck, seen through the transparent shell. 




c It does not follow, because certain aberrant forms from different localities resemble 
each other, that the species arej therefore identical, if the normal state and general habit 



204 LECTURES ON 

it is obliged to develop itself longitudinally, at the same time turn- 
ing up its sides in the vain attempt to get more room. The corre- 
sponding slipper limpet of the Californian coast appears to have a 
special fancy for this mode of life, as most of the specimens sent have 
assumed the form now described. It was first found by Mr. Nuttall, 
and distributed by him as C. exuviata. It was so published in Dr. 
Jay's catalogue. Dr. Gould, however, figured and described it as C. 
explanata. It had been previously figured by Valenciennes, in the 
Voyage de la Venus, as C. perforans, that author supposing that it 
had made the burrow in which it was found. The designation repre- 
senting an untruth, it must yield to the latest name, which alone is 
accompanied by a description.* A very singular groove, not found 
in the Mazatlan specimens, appears in all the specimens of C. expla- 
nata, and gives name to the shell. It is, however, a mere accident 
of growth, differing in every individual, and often not appearing till 
the animal approaches maturity. A specimeu, in situ, in the Smith- 
sonian Institution fortunately reveals the cause of this unique appear- 
ance. The creature goes to live at the outer or pipe-end of the 
burrow of a bivalve, f which remains at the other end after the ani- 
mal has perished. The growth of the shell is normal till it has 
attained the breadth of the pipe, be that greater or less. It then 
increases down the pipe, the vertex of the shell being always turned 
towards the outer end. There is no groove at this period of its 
growth; and when the vertex is rubbed off, (as it generally is in elon- 
gated specimens,) it can hardly be distinguished from similar speci- 
mens of the White Slipper. But as soon as it has reached the bottom 
of the pipe, where the dead bivalve (generally a Petricola, a creature 
with rather short siphons) still remains undecomposed, it suddenly 
encounters an unexpected obstacle. It wedges itself under this (to 
it) mighty globe, and turns its delicate mantle, exuding the shelly 
skin, up the sides of the new-moon-shaped cavity, but in vain. There 
is nothing for it but to retrace its steps, and back out. As it does 
so, every new portion, formed under the arched bivalve, repeats the 
previous concave impression, and the Grooved Slipper is the result. 
The sharp instrument of the •explanation" of one author, and the 
" perforation" of the other, is nothing but the little rounded " clam," 
tightly wedged at the bottom of its burrow; and the same slipper- 
limpet, freely developed under unconstrained influences, is probably 
the C. navicelloides of Nuttall, to ascertain the characters of which 
we are still in want of perfect specimens. 

To return to the White Slippers on the back of our Thorn-Oyster. 
Among the young shells which appeared to the naked eye to be the 

are essentially distinct. Man is not a monkey, although certain unhappy idiots may 
appear less highly organized than the lower order. 

~ It is greatly to he regretted that in this country, where type series, named by Mr. 
Nuttall himself, were readily accessible, his labors should have been so often disregarded. 
On the other side of the Atlantic they have frequently found their way into the mono- 
graphs, but unfortunately too late for preservation. 

f These burrows will be found described at page 209, et seq. 



THE SHELLS OF THE GULF OF CALIFORNIA. ' 205 

young C. nivea were some which under the microscope displayed a 
much larger but smooth and imbedded nuclear portion. On comparing 
these with similarly situated specimens from the west coast of Africa 
and from other places, I found them exactly identical. They pro- 
bably belong to the C. unguiformis of Lamarck. Now, it so happens 
that Professor C. B. Adams, who in general described every shell of 
Atlantic types as a new species, if found on the Pacific coast, in this 
one instance felt constrained to adopt the Lamarckian name for the 
unguiform slippers of Panama. It is not certain that in this one 
instance he was correct. Some of the specimens he distributed under 
that name are undoubtedly compressed and inverted forms of his own 
C. nivea; for every species may take the form of unguiformis when 
grown inside a dead spiral shell, especially with a hermit crab press- 
ing against it. But there seems sufficient evidence to believe that 
while each coast has its special species of slipper limpets, each one 
of which assumes protean changes, there is this one species which 
has been scattered, it may be in dead shells and on ballast, round the 
world, and to be distinguished from all neighboring species by the 
peculiar character of the nuclear whirls. It is too much the custom 
among "collectors," and even among naturalists, to examine and 
preserve only well-conditioned adult specimens. More may often be 
learned from deformed and "ugly" shells; and especially from series 
in all ages of development. 

We might easily fill the lecture with additional particulars concern- 
ing the slipper-limpets, but it is time to pass on to other matters. 
There is another family, the bonnet-limpets, (Capulidee,) nearly re- 
lated to the cup-and-saucer tribe, but without the peculiar internal 
appendage. Of these, two interesting species were found which 
appear to be peculiar to the West tropical American fauna; while 
others, the Hipponyx antiquatus, H. barbatus, and H. Grayanus, have 
a very wide distribution in one or both hemispheres. 

Differing considerably in shape, but presenting remarkable points 
of similarity in the habits of the animals, are the Vermetidae, (worm 
shells,) of which some interesting forms belonging to new types were 
found on our Thorn -Oysters. At first sight these shells would not be 
distinguished from the serpulce, (shelly marine worms,) which are 
found adhering to almost every dead shell from any sea-coast. The 
shell-cases of both seem to crawl irregularly over the shell or stone 
to which they adhere; and while some of the serpulaa assume the re- 
gular spiral form of the Mollusks, some of the Vermetids assume a 
looseness of growth as great as that of any worm. And yet the 
animals which have exuded these similar habitations from their soft 
skins, are more widely removed, the one from the other, than lions 
are from snakes or fishes. The Serpulas belong to the same sub- 
kingdom as the Insects and Crabs; and are, in fftct, red-blooded worms 
with ring-jointed bodies, without head or eyes, and with the nervous 
system pretty regularly diffused. While the Vermetids claim kindred 
with screw-shells and Periwinkles, having their little heads, with 
feelers and armed tongue-ribbons, and their nervous power collected 
into irregular knotted centres. The true affinities with regard to 



206 LECTURES ON 

one species were long ago ascertained by Adanson, the very accurate 
though eccentric naturalist of the west African coast. Since that 
time the animals have been so far investigated that various genera 
have been established by Dr. T. E. Gray and others. The typical 
Vermetids begin life free, and so continue for some time, making a 
delicate spiral shell exactly like Turritella. They then begin to tire 
of their freedom, and long for some protecting support, They sud- 
denly give up their beautiful spiral shape, and twist themselves any- 
how in search of a secure foundation. Having moored themselves to 
it for life they writhe in shelly contortions, crystallized (so to speak) 
as soon as formed, during the remainder of their sedentary existence. 
Of this tribe, the Ivory Worm-shell, (V. eburneus,) furnished by our 
Thorn-Oysters, is perhaps the most beautiful species. 

But the other Vermetids for the most part only show their con- 
nexion with spiral shells in the nuculear portion. These shells, in 
the Indo-Pacific ocean, generally have a deeply concave operculum,* 
with only a loose trace of spiral development. Of these, many 
specimens were brought home by the Exploring Expedition, unfortu- 
nately without the animal. But it was found that though the Gulf 
shells could hardly be distinguished from the Australian, their oper- 
cula most resembled those of Turritella. This was the more remark- 
able as the Turritelloid worm-shells have a very different operculum. 
The new group was named Aletes, the "Wanderer." It appears, how- 
ever, not to wander from the west coast of America: those found 
from the Mediterranean to the Pacific islands (as far as known) all 
belonging to the concave type. Wandering among the Wanderers 
are some equally large and equally highly-colored shells with an oper- 
culum formed on a still more intricate pattern. From the horny plate 
rise up two long processes branching exactly like stag's horns. They 
are made, however, by a headless annelid, and are not so much worm- 
shells as shell-worms. The Annelids have generally an earthenware 
texture; while the Vermetids are porcellanous. But on breaking 
across some specimens of a very small species, closely though irregu- 
larly twisted, I was surprised to find a structure which had not before 
been described in any recent spiral shell. An extremely thin lamina, 
like the deck of the slipper-limpets, proceeded from one wall of the 
shell, doubled itself over at a right angle, and met a similar lamina 
proceeding from below, so as almost to divide the body of the animal 
into two parts one within the other. 






Petaloconchus macrophragma.— Section across the shell at three periods of growth : a, one lamina first com- 
mencing, or ending; 6, upper lamina prolonged, lower commencing; c, upper lamina doubled over to meet 
the lower, while a rudimentary one appears between. 



* The operculum is a horny or shelly appendage to the end of the foot, drawn in last 
•when the animal retires into its shell, and thus protecting it. It may be called in com- 
mon language the trap-door or toe-nail. 



THE SHELLS OF THE GULF OF CALIFORNIA. 207 

This singular structure, to which there is some approach in the 
fossil genus Nerinrea, ran along most of the whirls, becoming evan- 
escent in the earlier and later portions. On examining similar shells 
from other seas, I found species in all the principal zoological 
provinces, each characterized by a different growth of the internal 
laminse. They had escaped observation before. I presume, because 
of the love entertained by collectors for "perfect" shells. Mr. 
Woodward, the author of the invaluable "Manual of the Mollusca," 
(Weale & Co., London; 3 parts,) enabled me to affiliate them to a 
genus established by Dr. Lea, (under the name Petaloconchus,) for a 
tertiary fossil of the United States, in which, however, the peculiar 
character is but slightly developed. 

If time allowed we might dwell on a number of other interesting 
shells which were found either living on the backs of the Thorn-oyster 
shells, or accidentally lodged between the foliations of the valves. 
We must confine our attention to a few. Among them were eleven 
species of Chitonidas or Woodlouse shells, of which eight were new. 
This strange family of Mollusks, while agreeing in many essential 
particulars with the true limpets, present some curious points of 
analogy with the articulated animals, having their skin -skeleton 
broken up into joints, and exhibiting a symmetrical and double arrange- 
ment of the organs of the body. Among them was one specimen of 
extraordinary beauty, though not much more than the tenth of an 
inch in length. Under the microscope each of the valves displayed 
a very elaborately ornamental sculpture, richly tinged with green, 
purple, pink, and brown; their shape, with the pointed beak and the 
transparent wing like processes at the side, bore no very fanciful 
resemblance to a bird in flight; while the thick skin in which they 
are imbedded was covered with minute transparent prisms, and at 
regular intervals with what the microscope revealed as clusters of 
white crystals, glittering in the reflected sunlight like the finest 
specimens of arragonites. The same species has just been sent to 
the Smithsonian Institution, adhering to similar shells from Cape St. 
Lucas, by that indefatigable collector, Mr. Xanthus. 

Sheltered from rough usage between two layers of shell Was a new 
form of Isognomon, which may be called, in English, the " shoulder- 
of-mutton shell with the double face ;" having one of its valves 
smooth, while the other has beautiful radiating lines covered with 
imbricated scales. These creatures, along with the Pinna shells, 
(which, like the Spondyli, have preserved the same name since the 
days of Aristotle,) the Hammers, and the Pearl-oysters, moor them- 
selves to fixed objects by a byssus or anchor cable of their own spinning. 
Whenever the most minute fragment of shell belonging to any species 
of this family is examined under the microscope it always presents 
a prismatic cellular structure, like basaltic rocks in miniature, or like 
the "float" of a belemnite. When a large old Pinna has long been 
exposed to the action of the weather, its surface will crumble into 
these prisms in the hand. They are formed by the breaking down of 
a longitudinal row of ordinary cells, like the ducts of plants. It appears 
that all shells are originally formed by the aggregation of cells in the 



208 LECTURES ON 

same way, but it is seldom that they are so distinctly marked. This 
affords a safe clue to the true affinities of certain Aviculoid shells 
found in the paleeozoic rocks, among the earliest forms of life in the 
Lamellibranchiate or Plate-gilled class. They are uniformly nacreous 
within, and it is found that the pearly lustre is due to the minute and 
irregular corrugation of the extremely thin film of animal matter 
which separates each layer of the shell ; this membrane preserving 
the same pearly lustre after the shelly matter has been removed by 
acid, but losing it when the corrugations are pressed out between two 
pieces of glass.* 

Another very rare and remarkable bivalve found sparingly on the 
Thorn-Oysters, was the Placunanomia pernoides, a transition form 
between the true adhering oysters and those which fasten them- 
selves by a solid plug passed loosely through a round hole in the 
shell. I had long known this species, (which is so different from any 
other that a distorted individual was described as a new genus by 
Dr. T. E. Gray,) having observed it on the back of some very large 
oysters, of which a large supply was sent to the Bristol Institution, by 
the captain of a ship engaged in the West African trade. There is 
no doubt whatever that they came from the Senegambian coast. The 
oyster itself, (0. iridescens, Gray,) possesses very distinctive charac- 
ters—a rare thing in that genus ; and other specimens from the same 
coast are preserved in the British Museum. To the disturbance of 
the prevailing theories on geographical distribution, I found the same 
gigantic oyster among the Mazatlan shells, accompanied by the same 
Placunanomia, and by a boring mussel, (Lithophagus aristatus.) which 
is abundant on the warmer western coasts of Europe and Africa. I 
believe that neither of these shells are found in the Caribbean sea ; 
and this is only confirmatory of other evidence, that just as some forms 
of life are peculiar to islands, not being found on contiguous continents; 
so others may have been created with a special adaptation to coasts 
facing the west, while others prefer the currents from the east. Those 
to whose great labors and critical acumen we owe the present state 
of our knowledge on the distribution of forms of life in time and 
space, hftve perhaps sometimes considered principles as established 
which rest on, as yet, insufficient data. It becomes us to pause before 
we arrive at conclusions. One little fact, like the finding of the fossil 
Malea ringens on the Atlantic side of Central America, may open the 
door to a new course of research, rich in results, important alike to 
geology and to recent zoology, and at the same time close it to very 
ingenious theories that have before been considered unassailable. 
Our principal duty, in the present state of our knowledge, at any rate 
in Malacological science, is the patient, thorough, and honest investi- 
gation of facts ; guided, indeed, by previously developed theories, 
or by those which we are ourselves eliminating, but in no sense con- 
trolled by them. And in doing so, it is only a false modesty or reverence 
for authority which would prevent us from following the advice 

ft Full particulars on the microscopic structu-e of shells will he found in Dr. W. B. Car- 
penter's Report to the British Association, 1844, p. 1, et seq. 



THE SHELLS OP THE GULF OF CALIFORNIA. 209 

repeatedly given by the late Professor E. Forbes to a beginner, 
"follow your own judgment;" or, as expressed in the phraseology of 
an American politician, "be sure you are right, then go ahead." 

But let us leave the surface of our Thorn Oyster, and examine what 
lies hidden in the ponderous substance of the valves. If the outside 
swarms with life, it is only the portal to the vitality which teems 
within. We will not speak yet of the worm-eaten passages, the 
entrances to which often riddle the external surface, making it look 
like solid sponge, but we will direct attention to certain ominous- 
looking holes, bearing the same relation to the oyster that the 
entrance to the great cave does to the State of Kentucky. (We may 
be allowed to compare small things with great, for in nature all small 
things are in one sense great; in another, all great things small.) 
These cavern-mouths are of various shapes, but evidently not irregular. 
Some of them are always round, others always oval, others 8-shaped. 
Out of some of the windows, opened but a little way, may be seen 
protruding a, pair of stony lips, belonging to a mouth so straight in 
outline that, according to physiognomical diagnosis, its possessor must 
be of secretive turn of mind. The diagnosis is true. Other mouths 
protrude from other holes, but with bird-like bills projecting, duck- 
shaped, as though to gobble the delicate morsels of the sea, or long and 
twisted, as in an attitude of defiance. But some display neither 
lips nor beaks; which after all have no connexion with mouths, but 
rather with noses, as will be presently explained. Let us take our 
glass, and for once imitate King George III, as described by Peter 
Pindar, and stare down the vacant, holes "like a magpie peeping into 
a marrow bone." The wise bird can see nothing but darkness. As 
the awkward bulk of our bodies precludes our entering the dark 
chambers of the cave with lighted lamps, we must find other means 
of exploring the penetralia. Let us set to work like geologists, with 
hammer and chisel, and not grudge an hour or so in observing how 
the creatures of a former generation spent their lives, like the Kings 
of Egypt, in making their own sepulchres. Carefully we remove 
layer after layer of t\ic oyster shell, and lay bare the underground 
passage. Its floor and sides and roof are all wrinkled, presenting in 
miniature the appearances often caused by the running water in the 
great eaves of this country. It is not water, however, that has so 
regularly roughened these. And why is it divided all along, like the 
Thames tunnel, by a stalactitic ridge along the upper surface, almost 
meeting a similar layer of what might be thought stalagmite rising 
from below? Suddenly it makes a, turn. We have chiseled through 
the colored portion of the shell, which we find riddled ami compara- 
tively soft; now we are on a bed of solid white marble. Indeed, as 
we try our chisel against it, we find it much harder than marble el- 
even than the ancient limestone. Life, though it be that of the tender 
oyster, can build more solid structures than the ocean, with its mighty 
force of waves. We are obliged to spend some time in chiseling shafts, 
levelling mounds, and preparing a field of operations to follow the new 
direction. The bipartite rugose tunnel suddenly widens, and we find 
ourselves in a spacious cave, beautifully smooth and regular. Its shape 

14 



210 LECTURES OX 

is oval; and loosely reposing within is a bivalve shell of peculiarly 
graceful shape and delicate sculpture, with abundant room to open 
and turn round at the pleasure of the animal. This is a "clam," with 
very long projecting siphon pipes, which fit into the two lobes of the 
long passage. They are covered with a rough skin, which produces 
the wrinkles on the surface of the shelly layer. One of these siphons 
is constantly drawing water into the gill cavity, while the other carries 
back the waste. When in the cavity, the delicate frills which form 
the "plate-gills," characterizing the class Lamellibranchiata,* float 
loosely in the water, aerating the blood in its intricate labyrinth of 
veins. At the same time the large, flapping lips, which are so enor- 
mously developed in the bivalves, (like the nose processes in the bats, ) 
move through the water, tasting its infusorial contents, and choosing 
from among them what they shall convey to the mouth, whence a 
highly organized digestive, circulatory, and generative system is at 
work to transform the animalcules into molluscous life and shell. The 
animalcules thus transformed excavate these wonderful caverns; how, 
we shall presently inquire. Here is a living creature entombed from 
its earliest days, or rather voluntarily entombing itself; hidden from 
view and from the society of its kindred; maintaining no more con- 
nexion with the outer world, except at the pipe ends, than a fossil in the 
paleozoic rocks; and yet see how -its wants are all provided for by this 
one exception. That little 0-shaped hole maintains within a, structure 
of such delicate beauty, with its tissues, nerves, blood-vessels, secre- 
tions, respiratory, and reproductive apparatus, that the due description 
of them would require a volume to itself, with an atlas of plates requiring 
the utmost skill of the artist, as well as the most delicate manipulation 
of the microscopist. Although at the end of a long and often twisted 
gallery, how fresh is everything in that inner chamber! The best 
cleaned dwelling room in regal palaces is impure by contrast. No 
flies make spots upon the ceiling, or mice leave their unfragrant odors 
behind the wainscot; no closing of windows retains the impure air, 
or sting of mosquitos disturbs the equanimity of Gastrochcenoid exist- 
ence. If our solitary friend has not the pleasures of eyesight, he never 
dreads to see his enemy; nor has lie once suffered from ache in head, 
tooth, or ear. lie has an inner light of happiness, though his body 
dwells in the profoundest darkness. lie has no more trouble than a 
child for the supply of his temporal wants. The all-pervading care 

°The name Acephala has precedence, but expresses nothing distinctive. All the lower 
classes of Mollusks and Articulates, as well as the v\ hole of the Radiates, arc destitute of that 
to us necessary appendage. The proper name of every individual (the genus and species) 
should follow the modified law of priority. But classirication is a matter of opinion, and 
must change (with the nomenclature founded on it) with advancing knowledge. The name 
Conchiieia was applied bv Lamarck to the Lamp shells as much as to the Cockles. When 
these are divided into two classes, it is well to find names which sufficiently express the 
main differences between them. 'J he Terebratula breathes through pores in the surface of 
the mantle, while the Anomia, which Linnseus (following the best light of his time) placed 
in the same genus, breathes by overlapping laminse. Blainville's names, Lamellibranchiata 
and Palliobranchiata, exactly express this difference; while, as in the case of the Dibranchiate 
and Tetrabranchiate Cephalopods, these gill differences are co-ordinate with others of great 
importance in the whole economy of the animals. The name Brachiopoda is very good. 
though it does not bring out the contrast. 



THE SHELLS OF THE GULF OF CALIFORNIA. 211 

of the mighty Father places what to him is the choicest food before 
his very mouth. He does not cry and suffer hunger like the young 
lions, but, like some mentioned in the Scriptures, he does not want any 
good thing. He has the pleasures of childhood, of youth, and of 
mature life. He emerges from the maternal egg, and finds himself 
swimming about in the mighty ocean. He lies in his transparent 
cradle, like the hollow of two fair)* hands joined together to nurse the 
little strai^ger, and enjoys the opening and shutting of his tiny valves 
as much as any infant catching at the moon. His mother's rest is 
disturbed by no plaintive wail, nor is her life shortened by minister- 
ing to its diseased wants. Our little Gastrochama sails on in the 
ocean of life with a literal placidity, realizing the most perfect descrip- 
tions of the novelist or the sweetest dreams of the sleeping child. The 
clairvoyant is said to have his eye-sense diffused over the membranes 
of his body; so does our infant see with the tissues of the fairy mantle 
in which he lies enveloped. No storms ruffle the tranquillity of his 
temper; no sudden frost cuts off his early bloom. He breathes, he eats, 
and performs all the other functions of life, as it were, unconsciously, 
simply happy in being alive. How the Lord has filled that mighty 
purifier which covers three-fourths of the surface of our globe, even 
in the darkness of its depths, with life and enjoyment! But the happy 
days of childhood are crowded into a few short hours; fulfil their term, 
and pass. Ah, young Gastroclnena, thou art tired so soon of freedom? 
Like the slave foolishly tempted away from his master under the 
glittering idea of liberty, thou hast tired of that bauble, and art going 
back, a willing captive till thy death ? ' ' Not so, ' ' answer the instincts 
that have been slumbering in that transparent form; "but I have a 
purpose to fulfil in life; I must work." And pray what art thou going 
to do, thou tiny living skin ? "I must dig; I must riddle out those 
living rocks that are growing up beneath me, and threaten to choke 
up the very channels of the harbor. But for me and such as I, even 
man may hereafter be stopped in the mighty works which he carries 
on in the divine image. But for me and such as I, his vessels, fraught 
with the material uses of his fellows, and with the evangelists of 
eternal truth, would be wrecked on sunken rocks where his charts 
described old soundings of sufficient depth." Thy idea is grand, 
thou floating jelly; but how wilt thou accomplish these great things? 
"He that implanted such ideas within me, will He not work through 
me. and enable even my frail substance to accomplish the allotted 
portion of the task? I must dig. Behold my foot!" 

As we look through the glass in our aquarium (that is to be, when 
the school of seience is established on the shores of the sea of Cortex, ) 
and see the tiny creature turning towards us the wide pear-shaped 
opening in its furrowed valves, and from a chink in the protecting 
mantle protrude a still more tiny, finger-like organ, calling it its 
"foot," the unbeliever might be tempted to scoff, and even the 
reverent student of nature to doubt its powers. But our infant 
Gastrocheena pays no heed, -and steadily sets himself to fulfil his mis- 
sion. Being heartily tired of a mere sportive existence — well enough, 



212 LECTURES ON 

for a time, that the species may become properly diffused — lie now 
seeks a home of work and rest. He swims to the bottom, and alights 
on the oyster bed. Admiring the many caves already disintegrated 
by the action of other living creatures, he chooses one for his abode. 
If no such cave exists, he shelters himself behind a corner and sets 
to work to make one. Fancy a man on a desert island planting him- 
self against a rock, with a deliberate purpose of hollowing out a cave 
to dwell in by rubbing with his hand or foot ! And yet this is what 
the young Gastrochaena proposes to himself, when the "days of 
helpless infancy" are hardly ended. And he does it. Those who 
have witnessed the polishers of fancy marbles smoothing hard stones 
by rubbing them in their hands may form some idea hoiv the Gastro- 
chaena does it. A soft living tissue is always stronger than a hard 
dead one. The coral-polype weathering the stormy breakers proves 
how a feeble vital force may resist a mighty energy which is only 
mechanical. Long as the. boring bivalves have been known and 
studied, their mode of operation is still matter of conjecture. But 
the study of our oyster burrows threw some light on the dark places. 
If the account here given be incorrect, let naturalists, with the marine 
aquaria that are to be, correct it. It used to be supposed that they 
dissolved away the rock by secreting acid; but not only was the said 
acid never detected among the - secretions of the body, it was also 
suggested that the same solvent which destroyed the calx of the cavity 
would also destroy that of the shell itself. The hypothesis, however, 
answered sufficiently well so long as the borers were only found in 
shells or limestone rocks. But at last they were found burrowing in 
hard, primitive silex, which no acid could touch.* It was then sug- 
gested that the animal spun itself round and round, like a tetotum, or 
backwards and forwards, like an awl, and so filed away the matrix. 
The delicate imbrications on the valves of the Pholas tribe seemed to 
favor this view; but even here we should expect to find the fragile 
file worn out by rubbing, which is not the case, the points in well- 
conditioned specimens being as little injured as the remainder of the 
shell. Moreover, it is the open, gaping portion of the shell that is 
turned first towards the resisting medium. Besides, even if the 
Pholads were proved thus to bore, the Gastrochamids are generally 
devoid of sculpture, except lines of growth; the Lithophagi are often 
so twisted that they cannot move round in their hole's; and the bur- 
rows of many of the Petricolidoa are heart-shaped, like the valves. If 
not the only agent of disintegration, I am convinced that in all cases 
the foot is the principal weapon of attack. This is known to be often 
strengthened by silicious particles, and I found its dried remains, as 
hard as horn, in adult burrows of (I think) every species of borer 
found in the Spondylus. This organ, which forms the principal part 
of the solid substance of the animal in all the burrowing and leaping 
tribes, is variously modified either to scoop out soft sand with 

$ ° A very beautiful specimen of Pholas in its flinty home will be found in the State 
Museum, at Albany. 



THE SHELLS OF THE GULF OF CALIFORNIA. 213 

astonishing rapidity, as in the Razor shells; or to crawl slowly, as the 
River Mussels; or to spin an anchor cable, as the true Mussels; or to 
jump, as the Cockles." In the Borers it answers the purpose of 
grindstone, scraper, and polisher. In Gastrochaena its comparatively 
small size is compensated for by the freedom with which the creature 
can move round and round in the capacious chamber. It is supported 
by a beautiful system of muscles which are moored to the fulcrum of 
the shell, and the nutritive material is abundantly poured into it to 
supply the waste. Our little tunneler sets to work with all the ardor 
of youth. His feeble finger, more delicate than any lady's, and as 
little used to toil, handles the rough surface of his cave, presses and 
rubs, rubs and presses, and finds the occupation as congenial to his 
instincts as whipping a wooden horse is to a little boy. His skin 
hardens with exercise. The invisible animalcules contribute their 
quota of silex and cartilage. The work of life has commenced in 
earnest. Would that we men, who have, offered to us the grandest 
and the noblest destiny, had but one small fraction of the untiring 
perseverance of these headless and uncared-for hermits. How often 
we talk of drunkards and debauchees reducing themselves to the level 
of the beasts. It is a libel on the brute creation. They fulfil their 
mission. Even the little Gastrochaena is obedient to the will of the 
Lord, and is the instrument to accomplish his work. It is man alone 
that is disobedient. 

The work progresses. The terrestrial changes of day and night 
do not reach the ocean-covered cavern. But still, in the absolute 
darkness of that solitude, tired nature craves and finds her stated 
intervals of repose. The Gastrochaena draws its finger-foot within its 
mantle, like the squirrel rolling itself in its protecting tail, and goes 
to sleep. So does the Laplander know the time of night, though the 
unsetting sun is high above the horizon; and the spiritual world has 
its Sabbaths of repose. 

As our bivalve wears out his tissues so fast in his hard labor, it is 
necessary that the renewing functions of assimilation and respiration 
should be carried forward with considerable vigor. This is provided 
for by the long siphon pipes, already mentioned. The creature gets 
his air and victuals from behind, while he is at work in front. Unceas- 
ingly he finds himself surrounded, even permeated, with a nutritive 
and cleansing atmosphere. The active muscles at the extremity of 
the pipes are forever inducing currents in the watery medium, both 

°My friend Mr. S. Stutchbury, formerly curator of the Bristol Institution, Englaud, when 
dredging in the Australian seas, had the good fortune to obtain the first liviug specimen 
of TriQonia, a beautiful and remarkable tribe of animals which, after first appearing in the 
secondary rocks, culminated in the higher oolites and cretaceous rocks, and suddenly disap- 
peared in the tertiaries. He placed his solitary treasure on the middle of the rower's seat, 
when suddenly the blind and apparently passive little creature opened its valves, put out its 
leaping-pole, and in an instant, by one spring, had cleared the side of the boat and was sale in 
its native element. Specimens may be seen in the Smithsonian Museum, obtained by Dr. 
Stimpson. This is only one among the many indications that in the Australian regions we 
have the last, remains of peculiar types of organic life, which in other portions of the world 
have given place to more perfect developments. 



214 LECTURES ON 

inhalent and excurrent. Could we see in those dark regions of the 
abyss, and could we make the flow of water evident by colored par- 
ticles, we should Avonder to see such a commotion going on a round 
our oyster valve; so many eddies, Avhirlpools, "lost channels/' con- 
flicting currents, produced by hidden but evidently powerful causes — 
the muscular energy of the soft creatures inside the rocky holes. It 
is said by sanitary reformers that the great questions of public health 
resolve themselves into two problems— how to bring pure water in, 
and how to carry foul water out. These problems our Gastrochsena 
has most satisfactorily solved. The pipe muscles are the engine, 
pumping the water at high pressure; the siphon is the main Avhich 
keeps the reservoir within on full supply; from this the service pipes 
of blood vessels branch to every atom of the body. Dissolved in 
the Avater is the ever- vivifying oxygen, and SAvimming in every drop 
are the dainty infusoria. The water, cleared of its nourishment by 
the net-like lips, and of its renewing functions by the reticulated 
filriis which float like fairy tissues in the liA'ing stream, (the plate gills 
of our bivalve,) hoav receives its dose of heavy carbonic acid, as Avell 
as the Avasted tissues of the body. Meanwhile it has been Avashing 
round the house, and has received its particles of almost invisible 
dust which the young scraper has cleared out. The sand of the street, 
as well as the drainage of the house, having been thus poured into 
the sewer, it is at once flushed out by the same high pressure of the 
incurrent water, and is expelled by the muscular force of the second 
siphon. Thus the house is always washed, the drains always cleansed, 
the air always fresh, the table ever spread with dainties, and our 
tunneler finds his refuse always carried away without the expense of 
tram-road or even the labor of wheelbarrow. Truly, nature's works 
are as perfect in their minutise as in the guiding of the stars. 

As the animal increases in size his instincts (unlike those of many 
other borers) lead him to Avork deeper, and retire farther from the 
outer world. He adopts the sentiment of La Fontaine's hermit rat, 
"Les choses d'ici bas ne me regardent plus." As he advances, he 
carefully fills up the empty space behind with layer after layer of 
shelly matter, lest the spaAA r n of obnoxious individuals should enter 
and occupy the deserted mansion. Occasionally some unlooked for 
event disturbs the even tenor of his existence. His diffused sensa- 
tions, not specialized into the functions of sight and hearing, become 
conscious of the slow but steady approach of some intruder on his 
peace; it may be his brother, working from the opposite side of the 
oyster; it may be a creature of some other race. It is all one to 
him; he displays neither blind partialities, nor special aversions; all 
he asks is to be let alone; and he gives his own answer by making a 
sudden turn. His neighbor does the same, and the great event of 
their two lives is over. They never fight. 

The same siphonal currents carry forth in their season the fecund- 
ating influences which reneAv the species. They enter the branchial 
cavity of the other sex: whence, also, the matured eggs are carried 
forth. 



THE SHELLS OF THE GULF OF CALIFORNIA. 



215 



We have taken a peep into the 0-shaped holes on the hack of our 



\V.Ji 




Gastrochcena, in situ. 

ipondylus valvr, broken arro-s; b, 
in its burrow, valves closed, 
shelly liniii" ot 



oyster; let us now see to what differences 
the round holes are an index. The creatures 
which leave these as their means of com- 
munication with the outer world were called 
Pholas by Linnaeus, and wore," the first 
among the borers (if we except the ship- 
worm, which long ago acquired even a 
political importance from its ravages in 
the Holland dykes) to attract the attention 
of naturalists. They arc eaten on the 
south coast of England, where they are 
called Piddocks; and arc esteemed a dainty 
morsel on the Californian shores, where 
they go by the name of date fish. Our 
oyster borers belong - to the section called 
"Cup-pholas," from the capacious cup-like 
appendage of delicate skin which rises 
from the end of the shell in the English 
species, (Pholadidea p'apyracea,) like a „ H) , 
goblet resting on an alabaster pedestal, bivalve 

o~ . o . " ' showing large gape; 

and furnishes a receptacle into which the previous excavation ; h.,' siphon pipes, with 
. . . i -ii i c ■ O-shaped opening ; \ t, inhalent and expel- 

siphon pipes may he withdrawn irom in- iant currents. 
jury. To find this delicate fabric, with its translucent, elegantly- 
sculptured valves, in the middle of the hard silicious rocks of the 
New Red sandstone, must have been a puzzle both to the acid and the 
valve-file theories. Our oyster-lover (other devourers of oysters de- 
light themselves in the "savory fish;" this creature devours the shell) 
is fashioned in a somewhat coarser mould; is somewhat wedge-shaped, 
with the thin end of the wedge turned away from the seat of boring; 
and, instead of one delicate capacious goblet, has a series of cup- 
laminse, laid one over the other, on each valve, like the shingles or 
tiles of a roof. Their extremely delicate structure would fare but 
badly were the te to turn or the awl process the principal source of 
oyster abrasion. During the adolescent or boring stage, the two 
valves only touch each other at the point of the hinge, (where the 
cartilage and teeth, so characteristic of ordinary bivalves, do not 
exist.) and at a stout projecting knob on the ventral margin. It is 
evident that then the powerful muscles of the foot, emerging from 
the large anterior gape in the shell, have "ample room and verge 
enough" to work from their hinge fulcrum, which is strengthened in 
this family alone by a long spoon-shaped clavicle, enabling the animal 
to direct its operations in many different points of attack. Having 
rubbed and scooped all round in one direction, the valves have power 
to twist and direct the undermining engine to another portion of the 
cave. But when the creature has attained maturity, (and there are ■ 
dwarfs and giants among these, as among men, it being common to 
find adults not one-fourth the size of more highly pampered favorites 
of the ocean,) it not only, like the Gastroclnena, and other Pholads, 
lives retired from the world in its own burrow, but it lives retired 



216 LECTURES ON 

from its own burrow. First it closes in the enormous gape, that 
capacious portal for the egress of the foot, with an unsculptured 
layer of shelly matter; then it lays in a plank (so to speak) between 
the ventral knob and the "cups," and another on the back extending 
from the hinge; a ping is securely wedged between this and the beaks 
of the valves; and, finally, the principal part of the outside of the 
valves, which is not already protected by the cups, is coated over 
with large "accessory plates," which, even in their small develop- 
ment, as shown in the European species, caused Linnaeus to group 
them with the limpet-like Chitons and the crab-like Barnacles in the 
heterogeneous order of "inulti valves."" 

These accessory plates so tightly wedge the creature into one par- 
ticular position that it seems impossible for it even to twist round; 
and in extricating specimens from the matrix it is hard to avoid 
breaking the Shell. When a burrow is broken across longitudinally, 
a stratified gray lining is seen in the part between the siphon pipes 
and the tangent to the burrow. The same part in Gastrochama is 
filled with shelly layers; but the Pholad appears to swallow, and, so 
to speak, digest the abraded matter, as he goes along, giving the 
matter out again in this altered form. In addition to this singular 
structure, the burrows, especially of aged individuals, frequently dis- 
play an irregular chamber communicating with the furthest extremity, 
the sides of which are' fashioned in very coarse wrinkles, presenting 
very much the aspect of some of the water-worn chambers of the 
Mammoth Cave in extreme miniature. Now r in these cavities is fre- 
quently found the hard, black, horny substance before alluded to, 
which I take to be the dried foot of the animal, and which is probably 
strengthened with silicious particles. f 

The only explanation 1 can offer of these curious excavations, 
which have never before been observed, is, that the foot having lived 
an active life so long, but being no longer needed for the economy of 
the animal, does not feel easy in subsiding into a state of complete 
inactivity, but edges its way through-the very narrow anterior chink 
(or more likely remains permanently outside it) and employs itself in 
moving backwards and forwards, thus producing the irregular wrin- 
kles. Sometimes these "foot-prints" make their way to the inner 
surface of the Spondylns valve; in which case the oyster lays a coat- 
ing of shell over it. The foot wears away this, and the oyster lays 

'■• It is very easy, from our advanced point of view, to show the strange errors of the 
very artificial system of classification which Linnjeus devised for the Mollusks; far more 
untruthful, though not more artificial, than his arrangement of the plants. It was all, 
however, that we had a right to expect at that time ; and necessarily resulted from the " col- 
lector spirit'' which had prevented the shells from being regarded as a part only of a living 
animal. His arrangement of these animals (apart from the shells) prefigured the classes of 
Cuvier, which still maintain their place, if not their rank. If we are disposed to find fault, 
let it not be with the old naturalists, whose works it were, perhaps, better for science some- 
times to disregard ; but with those who now persist in adhering to the Lamarckian ideas, 
which are quite as much behind our present knowledge as Linnftus was bt hind his stand- 
point. The last six years have, perhaps, contributed more to our knowledge of Malacology 
than the whole of previous researches put together. 

t Any chemist desiring to analyze the gray lining or this black matter will find specimens 
preserved for that purpose iu the Albany Museum. 



THE SHELLS OF THE GULF OF CALIFORNIA. 



217 




on another coat, and the process goes on alternately till one of the 
party dies. The warty excrescences thus produced, often with the 
black foot at the top, if the oyster has died first, present a strange 
appearance inside the Spondylus valve, till the true cause of them is 
discovered. The same process from outside the pearl oysters or ear- 
shells produces the irregular pearls which resemble a human foot, 
(said to bo a sovereign remedy against gout,) a horse's head, &c. 

Time would fail to describe 
the heart-shaped burrows of 
Petricolarobusta, and the cylin- 
drical cavities of several species 
of Lithophagus, all of which 
have their "noses" or breath- 
ing end of the shells close to the 
outside. The Lithophagus or 
Boring-mussel tribe are remark- 
able for arranging the abraded 
matter outside the horny skin 
enveloping their fragile shells; 
each species according to a fixed 
pattern. One of these, before 
mentioned as being found abund- Paraphoias, in situ 

antly On the West COast Of Spain «, a, Spondylusvalve broken across; b, the shell in its 

■i" * r • -i i r burrow; c, the cup laminae ; rf, d, accessory valves; e, por- 

and Ainca, OUt not (SO iai' as tion of the shell which gapes in the adolescent state, filled 

l. lm ,,,v,\ in +U.-, flnrihliOQTi farmo U P '" ""' ad,,lt ; A irregular foot cavity; g, g, gray lining 

KUOWIi; 111 mo OdllUUeail IdUIld, filling up previous excavations; h, siphon pipes; \\ inha- 

makes a long pair of twisted lentand expeiiam cm-rents. 

prongs, which look (when we examine the shell alone) as though 
they were formed for the express purpose of boring; unfortunately, 
however, like analogous "boring plates" in the ship- worm, they 
are situated at the outer, not the inner portion of the burrow. They 
seem connected only with the breathing apparatus. One new type 
<Jf Boring-mussels was found having siphon pipes like Gastroclnena, 
but smooth inside (Leiosolenus.) 

After these borers have accomplished their work of destruction on 
the hard fabric of the oyster banks, other bivalves come and live in 
the empty burrows, which they are often thought to have themselves 
excavated. They are, however, more truly nestle rs than borers; and 
as several individuals often crowd themselves into a narrow cavity, they 
become very irregular in form, and have been divided up unnecessa- 
rily into species. Such are the Saxicavre, Cumingias, Sphasnia, etc., 
as well as the more regular Kelliadse and Diplodontidse. Occasionally 
several different kinds are found, one inside the other, each having 
gone to live inside the skeleton of his predecessor. Thus nature fills 
up death with life. 

But the boring bivalves are not the only, perhaps not the principal 
agents of destruction on the oyster valves. The whole colored layer 
is generally found riddled with a labyrinth of galleries excavated by 
humble worms, and still more humble perforating sponges. These 
galleries again, after the death of their makers, form the pasture 
fields for many tiny species of Gasteropods, the largest of which are 



218 LECTURES OS 

only about a line in length and a few hundredths of an inch across, 
which crawl about browsing- on the minute algse and nullipores, or 
quietly inhaling their infusorial food; and also the hunting grounds 
for equally tiny but predacious tribes which feed upon their vege- 
tarian neighbors. Of all these, and especially the very interesting- 
tribe of Caecidse, full particulars will be found in the "Descrip- 
tive Catalogue of the Mazatlan Mollusca." 

The foregoing is offered as a sketch of an investigation carried on 
by an ordinary student without scientific name or talents, in order to 
show that any one of ordinary patience and accuracy may do some- 
thing to advance our knowledge, of the works of God. It is by en- 
deavoring to work out one province carefully, however humble that 
province be, that the interests of science are best advanced. There 
is no one but^ias the materials for some branch of inquiry within his 
reach; he has only to make choice, educate his eye, observe patiently, 
and be faithful. Those endowed with the peculiar faculty for elimi- 
nating and combining already existing details, may construct the 
beautiful fabric of general truths; but if this be attempted before we 
have obtained the facts with sufficient accuracy, the fabric must 
crumble away. The humblest fact duly placed in connexion with its 
kindred facts, is of far more value than a grand but hasty generali- 
zation. The coral polypes build more islands than the volcanic fires. 

The noble science of Geology, ably defined as dealing with un- 
limited time as Astronomy deals with space, cannot be prosecuted 
with certainty without the study of recent shells, especially in con- 
nexion with their station and geographical distribution. The micros- 
copic species of the Tertiary formations have lately been much 
studied in Europe, and will, doubtless, soon meet with the attention 
they deserve in the vast beds of this continent. These will have to 
be carefully compared with existing forms, both in the Caribbean and 
"West American faunas, and it is not improbable that facts may be 
eliminated from thern not less important than the discovery of the 
Atlantic Malea ringens before quoted. The study of recent and of 
fossil shells are but branches of the same inquiry, like the study of 
the fossils of two consecutive formations. No one department can be 
safely investigated without a knowledge of the others, anymore than 
one existing geographical fauna can be ascertained without the rela- 
tions supplied by other faunas. To the ordinary student a general 
knowledge of the whole subject, as it is presented in time and space, 
should lay the foundation for the special knowledge of his particular 
department. By this means his study of the details will bo conducted 
in an enlarged spirit, and presented in that form in which it can best 
be collated with other ascertained facts. 

The study of Natural History is commended not only to those of 
leisure and abundant resources, but especially to those busily oc- 
cupied in the works and cares of life. 

-" Nature never did betray 



The heart that loved her; 't is her privilege, 
Through all the scenes of this our life, to lead 
From joy to joy. For she can so inform 
The mind that is within us, so impress 



THE SHELLS OF THE GULF OF CALIFORNIA. 219 

With quietness and beauty, and so feed 

With lofty thoughts, that neither evil tongues, 

Rash judgments, nor the sneers of selfish men, 

Nor greetings where no kin iness is, nor all 

The dreary intercourse of daily life, 

Shall e'er prevail against us ; nor destroy 

Our cheerful faith that all which we behold 

Is full of blessings.'' — Wordsworth's lines on Tmtern Alley. 

Not merely is the study of the works of God a constant source of 
the most delightful relaxation in the regular concerns of life: but in 
those times, which come to almost all, of deep sorrow, of physical 
prostration, or ol unfitness, from whatever cause, for the discharge 
of ordinary duties, the words of Coleridge speak the literal truth 
in the living experience of many: 

" With other ministrations thou, Nature, 

Healest thy wandering and distempered child. ., 

Thou pourest on him thy soft influences, 

Thy sunny lines, fail- forms ami breathing sweets, 

Thy melody of woods, and winds, and waters, 

Till be relent, and can no more ensure 

To ho a jarring and a dissonant thing, 

Amid the general dance and minstrelsy." 



LATEST RESEARCHES OF M, MJEDLER 

RELATING TO THE GENERAL MOVEMENT OF THE STARS 
AROUND A CENTRAL POINT. 

[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution from the Bibliotheque Universelle de Geneve, 
1859, by C. A. Alexander.] 

The number of the Bibliotheque Universelle, of Geneva,for September, 
184G, contains an abridged translation of a memoir by M. Msedler, 
from Nos. 5 6(4 and 567 of the Astronomische Nadir id it en, having for 
its title "The Central Sun." The same astronomer has since pub- 
lished in 1847 and 1848, at Mitau and Leipsic, two volumes in folio, 
entitled ' ' (Inters uclmngen neber die Fixstern Systeme : or, Researches on 
the System of the Fixed Stars;" of which the first part is devoted to 
the consideration of partial systems of stars, or the reciprocal move- 
ments and determination of the orbits of double and multiple stars; 
while the second part, with which we are at present concerned, has 
for its subject the general system of stars, or the study of facts, tending 
to prove that there is a common movement of the stars around a 
central point. Finally, M. Mrcdler, in the 14th volume in quarto of 
the collection of observations made at the university of Dorpat, of 
which he has been director since 1841, and published in 1856 in that 
city, has returned to the subject, greatly extending at the same Lime 
his researches, and showing that the results are confirmatory of his 
previous deductions. It is here proposed to follow up the former 
notice of this subject by presenting a summary analysis of the later 
labors of M. Maidler— labors which in themselves offer a subject of 
high interest, to which the name of their author, so long and advan- 
tageously known to astronomers, gives great weight, and which yet 
have not commanded, perhaps, so much attention as they merited. 

It is natural to presume that the stars, which, in reference to the 
planets that revolve around our sun, we are generally accustomed to 
designate as fixed, are not in reality and altogether such, but that 
they, too, have movements subjected to certain laws. That in view 
of the immense distance of those stars, their movements must appear 
to us very small is readily comprehended, as well as that, to be properly 
verified, they must require precise observations made at long intervals 
of time. 

In comparing observations of the same stars made at different 
epochs, and taking into account causes of apparent variation, already 
recognized, such as the precession of the equinoxes, the mutation of 
the earth's axis, and the aberration due to the velocity of light, 
astronomers had still been long aware of small differences of reciprocal 
position which might be attributed to a, movement proper to the stars 
themselves. But we can scarcely go back higher than to the observa- 
tions made by Bradley, about 1755, to obtain a point of departure, in 



GENERAL MOVEMENT OF THE STARS. 221 

positions sufficiently exact, for what relates to these proper move- 
ments. 

Sir William Herschel, in studying this subject with the sagacity 
which distinguished him, arrived successively at two discoveries of 
very high importance. 

In the first place, about the year 1783, he showed that when these 
proper movements of the stars are considered collectively, a reason 
may be assigned for a great part of them by admitting that our sun 
has itself a movement in space in a certain direction. This movement, 
by a simple effect of perspective, would produce a gradual apparent, 
separation among the stars on the side to which the sun. was directing 
its course, and an apparent diminution of relative distance among those 
from which it Avas receding. Though long contested, even by astrono- 
mers of great merit, the movement in question seems now placed 
beyond dispute, since the labors of Argelander, Lundahl, Otto Struve, 
Bravais, Galloway, and Msedler, directed to this subject, have given 
it full confirmation, and indicated its direction towards a point in the 
constellation Hercules, very near to that assigned by Herschel 
himself.* 

The second great discovery of Ilerschel in reference to this subject 
dates from the first years of the present century, and relates to those 
stars which appear to the naked sight so near one another as to be 
blended into one, which, from this circumstance, we denominate double, 
triple, and multiple, stars. It was shown that in examining these 
closely there might be detected, at the end of a certain number of 
years, evident changes in the relative positions of the stars composing 
some of these groups, from which we may conclude that such stars 
form systems of suns revolving around their common centre of gravity. 
It is well known what an extension has been given to this interesting 
part of science by the subsequent researches of astronomers, in which 
Sir John Herschel, Sir James South, Messrs. Dawes, Hind, Jacob, &c., 
of the British empire; the elder and younger Struve, Savary, Encke, 
Bessel, Kaiser, Msedler, &c, on the continent of Europe, have par- 
ticularly distinguished themselves by their labors of observation and 
calculation. 

From divers considerations set forth in the memoir above cited, and 
from comparing together the proper movements of some hundred 
stars, M. Masdler had, in 184*!, already attained a firm persuasion that, 
besides the causes of apparent displacement just spoken of, the 
collective body of stars visible to us has a real and common move- 
ment of revolution around a centre, situated in the group of the 
Pleiades, and corresponding to the star Alcyone, or yj of Taurus, of 
the third magnitude, the most brilliant of the numerous stars of 
that group. 

* We feel satisfaction in recording that among the first to confirm the results obtained 
by Herschel respecting the proper movement of the sun were two French philosophers, 
Pierre Prevost and Frederic Maurice, in a memoir inserted in the collection of the Academy 
of r>eiiin for 1801. M. Arago has shown that the idea of the possibility of such a move- 
ment had been already announced by Fontenelle, Bradley, Mayer, and Lambert, though he 
fully recognizes Herschel as the first who proved its existence. 



222 GENERAL MOVEMENT OF THE STARS. 

In the first part of the great work on this subject, which was pub- 
lished in 18-17 and 1848, he subjected to a detailed examination all 
the observations made by himself and others relative to double stars 
and the orbits they describe, with a view to ascertain if there were 
among these or other stars any central body competent by its mass 
to exert a preponderant attractive action on all the other stars, so as 
to be controller of the general system, or central sun, in the literal 
sense of that word, as is our sun for the partial system which it governs. 
The result was to negative any such hypothesis — a result which no 
one has contested. 

In the second portion of the work, the author has shown that the 
idea of a distribution of the stars into simply partial systems, without 
any general connexion among themselves, is not admissible, inasmuch 
as it fails sufficiently to account for the proper movements already 
ascertained. This idea once eliminated, there remained for M. 
Mtedler, while admiting the law of universal gravitation, no other 
assumption but the existence of a general system without a pre- 
dominant central body, or of a globular system in which the stars 
all revolve about their common centre of gravity, according to 
a force directly proportional to their distance from the central point. 
With this assumption as a basis, the investigation turns upon the 
question whether the observed movements proper to the stars satisfy 
the conditions which result from it. 

The conditions which the central point and the neighboring region 
of the heavens ought to satisfy are the following: 

1. The central point should have no real movement proper, and its 
apparent movement, though to lie taken in the opposite direction, 
would represent that of the sun. 

2. If around the central point there be any group of stars physi- 
cally connected with it, the proper real movements of the stars of 
that group should be very small and equal as regards one another. 

3. If we describe around the central point C a concentric sphere, 
whose radius, C S, is equal to the distance of our sun from that point, 
all the stars situated within the interior of such sphere should have 
a real movement proper, smaller than that of the sun, and so much the 
smaller as they are nearer to C; the real movements proper should 
increase in departing from C to the circumference of a. great circle 
described with C as a pole. 

4. The point of the heavens towards which the sun is directing 
itself should be some 90 degrees from the centre C. 

5. If we denote by <f the -angle of direction of the proper move- 
ment of any observed star, ami by </< the angle of direction of the 
proper movement of the sun, the difference <p — <p of those two angles 
should be null at the centre, and should increase in all directions at 
departing from that point, without ever exceeding 90 degrees within 
the interior zone. 

G. The region of the heavens when the central point is determined 
should be the only one in regard to which the whole of the above con- 
ditions is fulfilled. 



GENERAL MOVEMENT OF THE STARS. 



223 



M. Maxller afterwards gives in detail, by moans of long tables, the 
positions and proper movements of 861 principal stars observed by 
Bradley, calculated for the epoch of 1840, and subdivided into differ- 
ent sections according to the distances of those stars from the central 
point or from Alcyone.* The following table presents a summary of 
the results: 



Place of the stars. 



Tent i ul point Alcyone 



Pleiades. 

Z me of 1° to 5° of distance from Alcyone 

/. me of 5° to 10O 

Zone of 103 to 20° 

Zone of 20 3 to 30° 

Z lie Of 3h° to 4(3° 

Zone of S2°.5 to 97°.55 



11 

12 

:;i 
101 

159 
224 
302 



~ tz Ti 



5 I 

" S a 



0. 0(573 
0. 0699 
0. 0702 
0. 0G!) ( J 
0. 0890 
0. 1067 
0. 109G 
0. 1183 



bD u 

d to 



1.6 

13.3 

29.9 
36.1 
4 4. 3 
48.6 
46. 1 
65.2 



These values, it will be seen, satisfy in general the principal con- 
ditions announced above; but as the author has since much extended 
the field of his researches we shall pass at once to the exposition of 
his last labors, in what relates to their principal object. 
. M. Meedler has devoted the greater part of the 14th volume of the 
observations at Dorpat to a new catalogue of 3,222 stars, of from the 
1st to the 7th magnitude, observed by Bradley, of which the posi- 
tions in right ascension and in declination are calculated by himself 
for the beginning of 1850, as well after the old as the new observa- 
tions. These values are accompanied by the precession and secular 
movement proper of each star; the latter expressed both in right 

tision and declination, and in polar co-ordinates. This catalogue 
is subdivided into four sections ranged each in the order of right 
ascensions. The first is composed of stars situated to the south of 

1 quator as far as to 30° of south declination; the second of those 
north of the equator up to 30° of north declination; the third of stars 
situated between 30° and 60° of north declination; and the fourth of 
i no.. ■ comprised between the north pole and the 60th degree of north 
1:011. The author has also calculated, after the observations 
of Lacaille and of Johnson, the proper movements of 97 stars of first 

tirth magnitude, whose southern declination is more than 30 . 



c-M. Msedler, in bis calculations of the positions of stars, has made use, among others, 
rminationsof right ascensions resulting from obtei vat ions made at Geneva under 
the din 1 tion of Professor Piantamour, and he ju Iges th< m c mparable in point 

: to those obtained at the principal observatories of Europe. 



224 GENERAL MOVEMENT OF THE STARS. 

The sum of M. Midler's calculations gives for 

80 stars, 1st to 2d magnitude, a mean secular movement proper of 25.09 

200 stars, 3d magnitude, a mean secular movement proper of 17.10 

348 stars, 4th magnitude, a mean secular movement proper of 14. 18 

690 stars, 5th magnitude, a mean secular movement proper of 11. 09 

994 stars, 6th magnitude, a mean secular movement proper of 9.05 

921 stars, 7th magnitude, a mean secular movement proper of 8. 65 

Although, according to this table, the most brilliant stars are those 
which in the mean have the greatest proper movement, yet the 
author, in comparing the strongest of those movements in each order 
of magnitude or apparent brilliancy, and adopting the opinion that the 
stars of considerable proper movement ought to be in general nearer 
the sun than the others, concludes that among the stars nearest us 
those of the least brilliancy appear, absolutely speaking, more nu- 
merous than those which are more brilliant. In effect, if alpha of 
the Centaur, Arcturus, Procvon and Sirius have, respectively, a proper 
annual movement of 3". 67, 2".26; 1".33, and 1".25: on the other hand, 
Rigel, (the 4th star in order of brilliancy according to Sir John Her- 
schel,) a of Cygnus and /9 of Perseus have scarcely any proper move- 
ment at all, while fi of Cassiopeia, the 40th of Eridanus, the 61st of 
Cygnus, and the two stars named after Argelander, which are of 5th 
to 7th magnitude only, have proper annual movements of from 4 to 7 
seconds. It should be also remarked that of 52 stars of the 2d mag- 
nitude observed by Bradley the mean value of their annual proper 
movements, as reported by Msedler, page 192 of volume 11 of his 
Researches, is but 0". 138; while of 150 stars of the 3d magnitude it 
is 0". 173. Thus, contrary to the ideas adopted by W. Struve, in his 
Etudes Stellaires, the degree of brightness appears to M. Maxller to be 
a bad indicator of the relative distance of the stars. 

We have already seen that, admitting that all the stars move around 
a common centre, without any preponderant mass, and according to 
the Newtonian law of attraction, the velocities will be very nearly 
proportional to the distances from that centre; the more uniform the 
distribution of masses the less will the form of the described orbits 
vary from the circle. From the central point C, wdiich is in repose, 
the proper movements of the near as of the remote stars would be 
equal; but from another point, S, situated at a certain distance from 
C, the stars nearest to S will appear to move more quickly. M. 
M;edler is disposed to admit that our sun is situated at about half the 
interval between the central point and the exterior limits of the space 
comprised by the stars with which he is engaged; but those stars 
form not a millionth part of the whole of the visible fixed stars, with- 
out even taking account of the Milky Way. 

The author commences his new researches with the determination 
of the movement of the sun and its direction. In this view he sub- 
divides the stars whose proper movements he has determined into 
three classes, viz: 

1. Those, to the number of 227, Avhose proper secular movement 
is greatest, and amounts to a mean of 55". 4. 



GENERAL MOVEMENT OF THE STARS. 225 

2. The stars, to the number of 663, for which that mean is 15". 25. 

3. Those, to the number of 1,273, whose mean secular movement 
is but 7". 79. 

He has left out of view in this inquiry, as well as in that which 
relates to the angles of direction <p — ^', those stars whose proper 
movement is less than 4" a century on account of the great uncer- 
tainty which results therefrom respecting their direction. 

M. Msedler makes use of the formulas given by Argelander in his 
memoir of the proper movement of our solar system, in applying 
thereto the method of least squares and successive approximations. 
He arrives finally at the following values for the right ascension A 
and the north declination D of the point of the heavens towards which 
the Sun was directing its course in 1800 : 

By the 1st class of stars A=262° 8'. 8; D=39° 25'. 2 

By the 2d-. do do A=261° 14'.4; D=37° 53\6 

By the 3d-. do do A=261° 32'.2; D=42° 21'. 9 

These results, it will be seen, differ but little from one another, or 
from those previously obtained by other astronomers. 

As to the general movement of the stars, the author presents, in 
the first place, new and detailed tables of the proper movements of 
the groups Pleiades and Hyades, of which he employs only the 
mean values in his ulterior calculations; not including, however, in 
that relative to the Hyades the two stars Aldebaran and r of Taurus, 
whose movements are not in correspondence with those of the other 
stars of the group. 

He obtains thus, respectively, for .the secular movement proper 
and the angle <p — $: 

Of Alcyone 4".70; + 2°.8 

Of the mean of 15 stars of the Pleiades 5". 82; -f- 8°. 7 

Of the mean of 27 stars of the Hyades 11". 26; -\ 60°. 65 

He afterwards subdivides the heavens, around Alcyone as pole, by 
means of concentric circles, described at from 10 to 10 degrees, into 
eighteen zones or regions, as far as the pole diametrically opposite. 
In the following table we give, for the stars comprised in each of 
these regions, the mean values of the observed secular movements 
proper and of their direction, resulting from his calculations. The 
number of stars of which he has made use, indicated in this table, 
refers only to the proper movements, those numbers being smaller for 
the angles <p — (/', in view of the limit of 4", alluded to above. 

15 



226 



GENERAL MOVEMENT OF THE STARS. 



Number of 


Number of stars. 


Mean of secular movements 


Mean of angles $ — \p. 


the region. 




proper. 








// 


o 


1 


45 


7.71 


39.98 


2 


100 


8.20 


46.43 


3 


189 


9.78 


55.45 


4 


264 


9.79 


56.86 


5 


269 


10.41 


61.72 


6 


275 


11.97 


62.59 


7 


273 


10.03 


61.19 


8 


246 


10.95 


67.95 


9 


277 


10.89 


62.75 


10 


218 


9.71 


68.80 


11 


221 


9.56 


58.01 


12 


163 


11.71 


67.97 


13 


163 


12.51 


63.26 


14 


123 


12.07 


61.90 


15 


92 


10.01 


58.92 


16 


87 


13.33 


61. '21 


17 


58 


9.16 


54.41 


18 


44 


7.30 


47.27 



We see by this table that for the first six regions the proper move- 
ments and the angles of direction go on regularly increasing. In the 
first there is but one case in 32 where <p — <p exceeds 90 degrees, 
while there are 55 in 186, in the sixth comprised between 50° and 
60° of distance from Alcyone. The twelve following regions, which 
are less complete and more and more removed from the central point, 
do not offer the same regular progression; and there is even a decrease 
in the value of the two elements in the last, situated towards the 
point diametrically opposed to the central point. 

M. Msedler admits that his last researches have not confirmed the 
opinion announced in the former, that the proper movements ought 
to increase gradually up to a distance of 90° from the central point, 
and perhaps even a little beyond. But he observes, 1st, that with 
regard to the southern zones it is impossible yet to conclude anything 
positively, so long as we have not in those regions a greater number 
of proper movements exactly determined; 2d, that as to the regions 
Nos. 10 to 12, they are situated in the neighborhood of the point Q, 
towards which the sun is moving, a circumstance which would dimin- 
ish the apparent proper movement of a part of the stars comprised in 
those regions; that, besides, the number of stars observed by Bradley, 
and even by modern astronomers, is smaller in those regions some- 
what distant from the ecliptic than it is near the Pleiades. The 
author remarks that taking the regions from 7 to 12 by pairs, we 
shall still find a gradual increase in the mean proper movements. In 
regard to the last regions, if the decrease in the elements with which 
we are concerned should be confirmed, that, according to M. Midler, 
may be because all the stars have not a movement in the same direc- 
tion with our Sun, and like the comets, their movement may be some- 
times towards one, sometimes towards another point. He regards 



GENERAL MOVEMENT OF THE STARS. 227 

the first as the most probable cause, but believes, in the meantime, 
that the conformity of movement is not so great for the stars as for 
the planets of our solar system. 

According to the last researches of this astronomer, the central 
point C and that towards which the Sun is moving are distant from 
one another by an arc of .111° 30'. 7; and the proper movement of 
Alcyone, taken in an inverse direction, conducts to a point situated 
2°. 6 south of Q. According to the preceding calculations, these 
numbers were, respectively, 113° 36' and 1°.5. If the position of Q 
is well determined, it may be that the orbit described by our Sun is 
not a circle, but an ellipse analogous to that of the planet Polymnia. 

The ideas promulged by M. Msedler from the time of his first re- 
searches having encountered divers opponents, it was incumbent 
upon him to reply in the later to those whose arguments merited 
a serious attention. 

Sir John Herschel, in his Outlines of Astronomy, has objected to the 
central point adopted by our author, that its position was unlikely, 
because the group of the Pleiades does not project itself upon the 
Milky Way. To this objection M. Mredler replies, that it is evident 
that the point which is the common centre of gravity of the Milky 
"Way, and the whole mass of stars which environ it, ought to be found 
on the central plane of the ring constituting that, celestial belt, and 
be projected on the plane from some point within its circuit. But if 
our Sun be in that plane, it is apparent that the middle of the belt 
must correspond to a great circle of the celestial sphere. Now, the 
admirable charts published by Sir John Herschel himself show that 
such is not the case in reality. The Milky Way is not at the same- 
distance from the two poles of the equator, and it does not divide- 
into two equal parts either that circle or the ecliptic. According to- 
the researches of G. Fuss, the small circle to which the Milky Way 
best corresponds, is distant 3^ degrees from the great circle to which 
it is parallel. It follows from this that an interior point situated in 
the plane of the ring, without being in the ring itself, cannot, from 
the sun or the earth, be projected on the Milky Way, and would be 
removed from it by an angle equal to that which a straight line 
drawn from the sun to the central point would make with the plane 
of the Milky circle. M. Argelander having previously, on the occa- 
sion of his investigations of the proper movement of the Sun, thrown 
out the opinion that the central point of the movement of the stars' 
was perhaps in the constellation Perseus, M. Masdler had, in his; 
first memoir, objected to this idea, the situation of that constellation 
on the Milky Way. M. Argelander since then seems not to have 
pursued his researches on this subject; and no one, to my knowledge 
at least, has indicated any other point of the heavens for adoption as 
the central point in preference to that situated in the Pleiades. 

Professor C. A. F. Peters, director of the observatory of Altona, and 
present editor of the Astronomische Nacliricliten, had also, from the pub- 
lication of M. Midler's first researches, raised some objections as to 
their results. The latter has replied to them, (pages 254, 257, 14th 
vol. of the Observations of Dorpat.) It would appear that this reply, with 



228 GENERAL MOVEMENT OF THE STARS. 

the new developments that our author has . given to his researches, 
have led Professor Peters to admit the validity of the conclusions 
deduced from them; for the second and forthcoming number of the 
new publication of Professor Peters, Zeitschrift fur populate Mitthei- 
lungen, designed as a continuation of the Annuaries published by Schu- 
macher from 1836 to 1844, is to contain, it seems, an article by M. 
Mueller on the Central Sun. 

Having thus cursorily exhibited the results obtained by M. Handler 
in the principal object of his labors, it is proper now to pass in 
review certain consequences which he has deduced from his researches 
at the end of his Untersuchungen. It should be remarked, however, 
that he presents them only as first views, still quite uncertain, which 
furnish at the most but very rough approximations towards the values 
of the elements to which they relate. 

■ As the mean proper movement of Alcyone ought, from what has 
been said, to correspond to the angular movement of the Sun taken 
in a contrary direction, if first we adopt, agreeably to the earlier re- 
searches of the author, 0".0673 as the annual value of that movement, 
this quantity being the 19,256,000th part of the circle, it would 
thence result that the complete revolution of the sun and all the fixed 
stars around the central point would be accomplished in about 19 
millions of years. According to the later valuation, 0".047 of this 
annual proper movement, the period of revolution would be still 
longer, or about 27^ millions of years for such of the stars as are not 
in the vicinity of the central body, nor at the extreme exterior 
limits of the circuits of the Milky Way. It is evident, more- 
over, that the value of the proper movement of the central point 
is still quite uncertain, and we may observe in the table of the proper 
movements of each of the Pleiades given by M. Handler, (p. 259 of the 
14th vol. of Observations of Dorpat,) four stars of that group whose 
secular proper movement is smaller by some tenths of a second than 
that of Alcyone. The smallest, which is 3". 9 only, would correspond 
to the star designated by the letter Z; but that star is only of the sixth 
magnitude, and its angle of direction is 39°, so that it can by no 
means be regarded as constituting the central star. 

The author admits that the subordinate systems should have shorter 
revolutions. He shows that the non-existence of any star having an 
annual parallax of several seconds of a degree proves that our Sun has 
no other star associated with it, and belongs to no partial multiple 
system. He has concluded from his researches on the double stars, 
that there can scarcely be any system of this sort where the companion 
is distant from the principal star more than six minutes of a degree. 
The case of a considerable number of stars being close to one another, 
is hence the only one where there is any likelihood of a partial 
physical system. Thus, for the largest number of stars there exists 
only a common bond, and with the exception of perturbations com- 
paratively insignificant, resulting from certain conjunctions of stars 
among themselves, they exert no particular action on one another, 
nor on the system of planets. 

"We have already seen that M. Mredler is not disposed to admit, in 

general, "that the distances of the stars are inversely proportional to 



GENERAL MOVEMENT OF THE STARS. 229 

their brightness, and he thinks that the difference in their light may 
often be referred either to a real difference in their diameters, or 
possibly in their specific luminous intensity. He cites as a striking 
example of this kind, the two stars of the constellation Cygnus, Alpha 
and 61 ; the first having a parallax and proper movement almost imper- 
ceptible, while the value of these elements in each is respectively 
0".348 and 5". 22 ; whence he concludes that the latter must be at 
least 30 times nearer to us than the former, and its absolute brilliancy 
20,000 times less. 

It is to the attentive observation of the proper movements, com- 
bined with the parallaxes directly obtained, that, according to our 
author, we should attach ourselves for the determination of the dis- 
tances and special physical relations which exist between the systems 
of stars. As an essay towards absolute determinations in this way, 
he compares among themselves the proper movements and parallaxes 
for the stars to the number of 7, where this last element is approxi- 
mately known, after the researches of Bessel, Maclear, and Peters. 
These respective values are as follows: 

Proper movement c. Annual parallax jr. 

a of the Centaur 3".674 0°.912 

61st of Cygnus 5 .221 .348 

a of the Lyre .349 .103 

1830 of the catalogue of Groombridge 7 .020 .226 

Polar star .038 .067 

2 of the Greater Bear .535 .133 

Arcturus 2 .258 .127 

With the exception of the Polar star, in regard to which the small- 
ness of the two elements renders their values vef y uncertain, we see 
that the first much surpasses the second in magnitude, their mean 
relation being that of 10 to 1. Macleare thinks the parallax of Sirius 
less than the fourth of a second, while its proper movement is one 
second and a fourth. 

M. Masdler, after having endeavored to determine anew, with all 
possible care, the precise value of the annual proper movement of 61 
of Cygnus, finds it to be 4". 282. Now, that of the Pleiades being, 
in the mean, 0".0582, is consequently 73 times smaller. We may 
then admit that in the rectilinear triangle PSC, which joins .the 
Pleiades, the Sun, and 61 of Cygnus, the side SC is much the smallest. 
The angle at the Sun S being 83°. 4, the angle at C should be near 
90°, without by possibility exceeding 96°. The author admits, then, 
the equality of the sides PS and PC to be very close, and conse- 
quently that also of the real proper movements of the Sun and 61 
Cygnus. Thus the annual proper movement of our Sun ought to be 
seen very nearly under an angle of 4". 284 from a point in the celestial 
space where the radius of the earth's orbit would appear under a 
parallactic angle of 0".3483; whence it follows that the proper move- 
ment of the Sun corresponds very nearly to 12,295 radii of the ter- 
restrial orbit. 

This result is much greater than that of 1,623 obtained by W. 
Struve, at the end of his Etudes Stdlaires, the grounds of which are 



230 GENERAL MOVEMENT OF THE STARS. 

contested by Masdler. He observes, however, that the recent re- 
searches of Johnson and Otto Struve on the parallax of 61 Cygnus, 
which raise its value to about one-half second, reduce the annual 
proper movement of the Sun, if this last result be admitted, to about 
8| radii of the earth's orbit, or 276 millions of leagues of 25 to the 
degree; and he remarks that this velocity is ver} r nearly that of the 
planet Mercury in the orbit it describes round the Sun. 

Let us again assume for the moment, with M. Masdler, the value 
of the Sun's annual movement to be 12,295, as obtained above; 
this movement, as it would be seen from the Pleiades, would be 
expressed, according to the estimate before given of the arc CQ, by 
the formula, 12,295 X sin 111°.5; which reduces the movement to 
11.44. 

We have, then, for the parallax n of the group of the Pleiades, 
assuming the estimate on a former page of its mean movement and 
angle <p — <p\ 

0°.0582 rtn nnrnn 
* = ■ = 0°.00509. 

The distance to the Sun corresponding to this parallax is about 4(H 
million times the radius of the earth's orbit, a distance which it would 
require about 640 years for the light to traverse. The two last num- 
bers would be still greater if we assume the values relative to 
Alcyone. 

The author shows that from the proper movement of our Sun, and 
its distance from the central point, may be deduced, by means of 
Kepler's third law, the proportion of the whole attractive mass which 
revolves around Alcyone as a centre, to the mass of our Sun. 
According to the preceding numbers, that whole mass would be about 
one hundred and eleven million times that of the Sun. 

M. Msedler considers our solar system to be situated in a region of 
the heavens comparatively very destitute of stars, but the regions of 
mean stellar abundance to rate much lower in point of mass than the 
space occupied by our planetary worlds. In this latter system, the 
central mass exerts over the subordinate bodies, which are in limited 
number, so considerable a force that the perturbations are there for 
the most part of little importance. In the general stellar system an 
analogous result is obtained in a different manner, namely, by the 
immense number of the members of that system, obviating in this 
respect the necessity for any preponderant central mass. 

The regions of the heavens near the group of the Pleiades, north 
and south, are comparatively quite destitute of stars, especially from 
/? of Perseus to ^ of Taurus. Farther away from the constellation, 
there is again, in every direction, but chiefly towards the east, a great 
abundance. Still farther on, we presently meet towards the west 
another deficiency, along the zone which traverses Pisces and Pe- 
gasus; while more to the east there occurs first the remarkable group 
of the Hyades, and then a great diminution in the number of stars. 
In other regions of the heavens we may observe that the richest in 
stars have not the form of rounded groups, but rather that of 
elongated zones, almost parallel to the Milky Way, and that between 
these there are seen others destitute of stars. The southern heaveDS 



GENERAL MOVEMENT OF THE STARS. 231 

present this appearance in a still iAore striking- manner than the 
northern. The Milky Way is itself composed of several concentric 
rings, situated one behind the other, forming circular zones rich in 
stars, comprised between others which are less so. 

At the centre of this great system exists a rich group, forming in 
the whole a considerable and well-defined mass, whose diameter, 
nearly equal to the distance from our Sun to the 61st of Cygnus, is 
about 600,000 radii of the earth's orbit. It has already been said that 
the zone in which our Sun is now found is poor in stars; and it is to 
this situation that we may chiefly attribute the fact that the mean 
distances of the stars so little correspond for us with their apparent 
magnitude. It may be, also, that what we term richness in stars is 
referable to a greater luminous power, increasing or decreasing by 
alternating zones. 

The double stars, and the most considerable groups of stars, occur 
in regions poor in stars as well as in those which are rich. Thus the 
two stars considered the nearest to us are double, and situated in the 
same zone with the Sun, which is placed not far from the middle of 
the interval comprised between them. 

This constitution by alternative zones is not, as M. Masdler re- 
marks, so different from that of our planetary system as might appear 
at the first glance, for around our Sun there is first a void space of 
0.38 of a radius of the earth's orbit; then we find a zone occupied 
by four very dense planets of mean size, to which succeeds that of 
the asteroids of very slight mass, and then that of the great planets, 
attended by numerous satellites. 

The extent of the rings of the Milky Way may be determined up 
to a certain point. In effect, the shortest distance from Alcyone to 
the middle of that belt is 21°, and the mean divergence of the Milky 
Way from a great circle, as has been said above, is three degrees and 
a half. If we draw right lines between the Sun S, the group of the 
Pleiades P, and the points M and M', the nearest and the most dis- 
tant from the Milky Way, we shall have two triangles having a com- 
mon side PS, supposed to be known from what precedes. M. Masdler 
deduces therefrom the following values: 

The half-diameter of the Milky Way corresponds to a distance which 
the light would require 3,648 years to traverse. The distance from 
the. Sun to the nearest point of that belt would be traversed by the 
light in 3, 166 years, and its distance to the most remote in 4, 140 years. 

But as the belt is double, and for the points in question the two 
portions, by an effect of perspective, appear blended, the interior 
ring ought to be a little less distant, and the exterior one, on the 
contrary, considerably more so. It had already been supposed that 
the more remote regions of the Milky Way would correspond to a 
distance which light would occupy nearly 4,000 years in passing over. 

From this it results that the orbit described by our Sun in space is 
very nearly to that of the circumference of the Milky Way in the 
proportion of the orbit of Jupiter to that of Neptune; and, pursuing 
the analogy, it may be remarked that the portion of stars compara- 
tively the smallest is on the interior, and the largest on the exterior. 
When the stars which surround the Pleiades to a distance of 25 to 



232 GENERAL MOVEMENT OF THE STARS. 

30 degrees, those situated at the point of the heavens diametrically 
opposite, and those of the zone of the great circle of which these two 
points are the poles, shall have been completely observed, (as has 
begun to be executed at Dorpat for a part of them,) we shall be 
enabled step by step to attain a more profound insight into the 
organism of our stellar system. 

"I regard," adds M. Masdler in terminating his great work, " the 
complete assemblage of stars which revolve around the group of the 
Pleiades, their common centre of gravity, as forming a sort of isle in the 
universe; and I admit that there are in the vicinity of and beyond this 
stellar system, other analogous isles, of which the nebula? offer us 
various examples. "We cannot as yet decide, if some among them 
stand in a relation of neighborhood and connexion with our own; but 
it may be possible that there exists between them and our Milky Way 
a common bond, the last being always to be considered as of a more 
elevated order. Yet it does not appear to me probable that the par- 
ticular configuration of our isle in the universe should be a model for 
the others, as well because this conformity would but little accord 
with the variety which prevails in the subordinate systems, as that 
the very different forms under which the nebulas present themselves 
to our. view could scarcely be explained by merely optical differences. 
Still it is true that some of these isles have an appearance which 
offers a striking similitude to that of our own; such being particularly 
the case with the beautiful annular nebula of the Lyre, whose interior, 
according to recent explorations, is not entirely void and obscure, 
and which, taken as a whole, sufficiently represents our stellar system 
as it would be seen at the distance of the nebula?. 

' ' The preceding considerations have led us to the contemplation 
of an extent of space and time, which, relatively speaking, we may 
well term infinite, and the number of bodies in the universe is far 
beyond our powers of computation. When, from our terrestrial dwel- 
ling-place, we strive to penetrate deeper and deeper into space, every 
scale of measurement, however colossal it may at first appear to us, 
is annihilated, so to speak, before the immensity of the heavens. It is 
not so much the infinity of numbers which renders this grand organism 
so worthy of admiration, for this- manifests our own littleness still 
more than the greatness of the universe; it is the inexhaustible multi- 
tude of forms and figures which sets forth before our eyes in the 
most striking manner the infinite power and wisdom of the Creator. 
Nature works not after models; she knows how to combine with the 
strictest subordination to a single general law, the most pliant liberty 
of action and the richest variety of development. Hence, the medita- 
tive spirit may range through this infinite without fear of ever 
losing ^ the_ guiding thread. Every new member, each successive 
gradation in the universe, is not a repetition on a wider scale [of 
what was already known; it presents to us formations which, whether 
from without or within, extend beyond all prevision our previous 
conceptions. 

' The greatest explorers of the skies in the two last centuries, 
attached themselves strongly to the idea that our planetary system 
was a model, in itself, of the system or systems of the fixed stars; they 



GENERAL MOVEMENT OF THE STARS. 166 

sought for a single Sun, which should be to the universe what our Sun 
is to the planets, and not having found it, they were tempted to re- 
nounce the idea of a general organization of the stars, and no longer 
to recognize anything but partial systems. 

"If, while leaving unimpaired the validity and comprehensiveness 
of Newton's great law of universal gravitation, I have succeeded in 
proving that the organization of our stellar system has a substantial 
existence, wholly different from that of the systems which are subor- 
dinate to it, and in determining the most probable central point of 
the grand whole, my aim will havfe been attained, and the principal 
task which I had proposed to fulfil during life, will have been ac- 
complished. ; ' 

We cannot terminate this notice without rendering a just homage to 
the perseverance with which M. Masdler has conducted his researches, 
and to the important progress which, in any event, will have been 
achieved in the determination of the proper movement of the stars by 
virtue of his labors. It is now a long time that philosophers and 
scientists have been occupying themselves with the constitution of 
the universe. The first part of the interesting memoir published 
in French, in 1847, by the celebrated astronomer, W. Struve, di- 
rector of the Russian observatory of Pulkova, under the title of 
Etudes cV Astronomie Stellaire, comprises among others a summary 
and very curious exposition of the ideas, always ingenious and in part 
conformable to truth, which have been successively promulgated 
on this subject by Kepler, Huygens, Wright, Kant, Lambert, 
Mitchell, and Sir W. Herschel. But before this last, these ideas 
were most frequently rather speculative than founded on investiga- 
tions and positive observations. It is Herschel, then, who has 
opened the most direct and surest route, by the help of his powerful 
telescopes; and M. Ma^dler is beyond doubt one of the astronomers 
who has followed him with most ardor and success, while profiting by 
the labors of his predecessors, and above all by the precise determi- 
nations of the positions of stars recently obtained. 

There remain, doubtless, many points still uncertain in the results 
obtained by the latter, and time only can confirm in a definite manner 
the solution which he has given of this important problem. But as 
the author has in general sustained himself by observations as exact 
and numerous as circumstances permitted, giving them in all their 
details, without making an arbitrary choice among them, and without 
dissembling the weak points of his system, but with the sole desire of 
arriving at the truth, and with the conviction of having attained it, 
it would seem that we ought to be disposed to admit the validity of 
his principal deductions, corroborated as they now are. The case of 
the determination of the general movement of the stars by M. Midler 
will, perhaps, prove analogous to that of the first determination of the 
movement of the Sun in space by Sir W. Herschel; that is to "say, 
that having been a long time contested or neglected, it will be finally 
confirmed and generally admitted, and will constitute a fair title of 
honor for the skilful and bold astronomer who will have been the 
first to prove its reality. 



234 REPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 



REPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 
PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA, FROM 
JULY, 1858, TO JUNE, 1859. 



BT PROEESSOR DE LA BIVE, PRESIDENT. 



[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution from the Memoires, &c, Tome xv., Premiere 
Partie, 1859, by C. A. Alexander.] 

Gentlemen: An existing regulation of the society devolves on its 
president the duty of presenting to you, at the moment when he is 
about to lay aside his functions, a detailed report on the labors of the 
body during the year just elapsed. This order, which for the year 
previous was fulfilled by our former president, Professor Gautier, I 
now propose on my own part to execute. ^ 

The Society of Physics and of Natural History embraces in its 
field of labor, as its title indicates, alike the physical sciences and the 
natural sciences, that is to say, every part of the domain of human 
knowledge which has for a basis observation and experiment in the 
field of nature. Pure mathematics, therefore, do not fall within its 
compass, though applied mathematics are by no means excluded; for 
how could such be the case where astronomy, mechanics, and physics 
occupy so prominent a place ? But as there is no one versed in pure 
mathematics who does not more or less make an application of them, 
it follows that association with us lies always open to the learned 
mathematician, and thus we are warranted in saying that no scientific 
notability of our country is excluded on system from our circle. 

The division between the physical sciences and the natural sciences 
which the name of the Society recalls is not purely arbitrary. It is 
founded on a true principle, namely, that in the study of nature 
there are two points of view strictly different: the one having for its 
object more particularly the study of forces and laws, the other at- 
taching itself essentially to the examination of bodies themselves. 
Not that in the former kind of study bodies do not play an import- 
ant part, since it is only through their medium that we take cogni- 
zance of forces, nor in the latter that forces should not be taken into 
consideration, since without them we could not know the properties 
of bodies. But the dominant and characteristic division is in strict- 
ness that which I have indicated. 

The distinction, however, is not always very definite, and if we 
place physiology in the division of natural sciences and not in that of 
the physical sciences, it is solely because physiology is inseparable 
from organic natural history, which furnishes its elements, and to 
which at the same time itself serves as a basis. 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 235 

Thus, then, in the report which we are about to present, we 
comprehend under the same head of Physical Sciences, mechanics, 
astronomy, physics, both mathematical and experimental, terrestrial 
and meteorological, as well as chemistry — sciences whose points of 
contact are so numerous and so multiplex that it is difficult to deter- 
mine the limits which separate them. Geology, mineralogy, and 
organic natural history, botany, and zoology, (comprising therein 
physiology) form the second group, which, under the head of Natural 
Sciences, constitute likewise an assemblage sufficiently compact, to 
which palaeontology accedes as a cement binding all the parts together. 
"We confess that we are at a loss to know to which of these groups 
statistics should be referred, which, like mathematics, find a place 
among us. only by virtue of their application, and whose labors, there- 
fore, ought to be classed, it would seem, according to the nature of the 
application which is made of them. 

PHYSICAL SCIENCES. 

It is natural to place at the head of the physical sciences that 
which, lifting the regards of man towards the celestial vault, seems 
more suited than any other to recall to him the magnificence of the 
creation and the greatness of its Author. Some years ago, and as- 
tronomy might have been thought to have uttered its last word. 
Certain stars*to be discovered in the immensity of the heavens, im- 
proved methods to be invented for calculating the courses of the 
celestial bodies — these seemed to be the only lines in which progress 
was possible after the labors of the Herschels and La Places; but 
thanks to the improvement of instruments and the perseverance of 
observers, a new era has dawned for this part of the sciences. New 
planets, announced, like Neptune, through the potency of the genius of 
mathematics, or discovered simply by a conscientious exploration of 
the skies, are constantly ranging themselves in our astronomical cata- 
logues; a more profound study of the physical properties of the stellar 
bodies leads to inductions of the highest interest with regard to their 
physical constitution; and the aid of powerful glasses unveils to us 
in the fixed stars the nebulae and the comets — appearances till now 
unknown. 

I have mentioned comets. Of course there was much question in 
the society respecting that of Donati, which was the great astronom- 
ical event of the year 1858. Professor Thury was the first who oc- 
cupied our attention with some observations he had made on that 
body, the tail of which he had found to be double near the nucleus. 
Still later, Professor Plantamour communicated a summary of the ob- 
servations made upon it at the observatory of Geneva, from August 
28, to October 18. In that interval of time, the number of days of 
observation was 29, for which the position of the comet was deter- 
mined by comparison with the neighboring stars. From these obser- 
vations, and those made by different astronomers, it results that the 
part of the orbit traversed by the comet before passing to its peri- 
helion is an ellipsis which would require from 2,100 to 2,400 years as 



236 REPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

the duration of a revolution, and the determination of which is de- 
ducible to quite a close approximation from this single appearance 
by a comparison of all the observed places after and before the pas- 
sage to the perihelion. M. Plantamour has entered into many details 
on the physical appearance of the comet, which he has reproduced in 
a series of drawings. He has described the presence of an obscure 
space situated immediately behind the nucleus in the part opposed 
to the sun; this obscure space, which often appeared darker than the 
ground of the sky, varied sensibly in its form and extent during the 
course of the observations; and he remarks that it is equally to be 
observed in the delineations of Halley's comet published by Bessel. 
Lastly, he has added some remarks on the size, both apparent and real, 
on the form and direction of the tail, the apparent length of which 
was 41° on the 5th October, and the linear length 13.5 millions of 
leagues, (25 to the degree,) while on the 13th October the apparent 
length was not more than 32°, and the linear length 10.5 millions of 
leagues. M. Thury and M. Wartman have also described some pecu- 
liarities relative to the light emitted by this body, and M. Wartman, 
the younger, as likewise M. De la Rive, have pointed out the analogy 
which the bifurcation of the tail of the comet into two parts, separated 
by an obscure space, presents to the appearance which flames affect 
under the action of the magnet — an analogy which might, perhaps, 
confirm the idea already promulgated, and more particularly by 
Bessel, of a magnetic influence of the sun. • 

An astronomical labor of an entirely different kind is that which 
M. Ritter has been engaged in, being the calculation of observations 
of the fixed stars. This work has been undertaken with the view of 
ascertaining the cause of the abnormal result presented by the re- 
duction of observations of the star y of the Dragon, as made by M. 
Main in the XXIV volume of the Memoirs of the Astronomical Society 
of London. After different calculations, made with great care and 
checked by numerous verifications, M. Ritter continues to find, like 
M. Main, a negative parallax, but of less value, though he took 
account, which M. Main did not, of the influence of the ellipticity of 
the earth's orbit in the phenomena of the aberration and the parallax. 
It results therefrom that the observations are infected with errors, 
proceeding, no doubt, from a defect in the stability of the instrument. 
In effect, as M. Plantamour has remarked, there are reasons for doubt- 
ing the exact steadiness of the old zenith sector of Greenwich, and in 
submitting the observations to calculation it were to be wished that 
those only were employed which are made with the new sector of M. 
Airy. At all events, it has been made to appear by M. Ritter's labors 
that the calculation of an elliptical parallax essentially modifies the 
results found by the circular parallax, which demonstrates the abso- 
lute necessity of taking account of the ellipticity of the earth's orbit 
in calculations of this kind. 

Independently of the original memoirs just spoken of, the society 
has had several interesting communications on astronomy. Professor 
Gautier has kept it constantly advised of the researches made by 
foreign astronomers, particularly those of M. Carrington on the exist- 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 237 

ence of a solar atmosphere and on the eclipse of 7th September, 1858; 
those of M. "Wolf, of Zurich, on the relation which exists between 
the annual mean of the magnetic declination and the abundance of the 
solar spots, and of the influence of certain planets on those spots; 
recent investigations relative to the moon, namely, those of M. Adam 
on the ellipticity and inclination of the moon 7 s orbit, and the series of 
observations made at Greenwich under the direction of M. Airy on 
the movements of that planet. M. Gautier has dwelt particularly 
on a very important inquiry of M. Airy relative to the progressive 
movement of the sun in space, an undertaking in which, by the em- 
ployment of a new method, the learned English astronomer has suc- 
ceeded in finding a movement somewhat less in quantity than that 
indicated by M. Meedler, and a direction for that movement slightly 
different. Finally, I must not omit the exhibition by Professor Plan- 
tamour of a very beautiful relief of the. crater of Copernicus, executed 
on a scale of yooVoo" from the photographed plates of Father Secchi. 
This relief, when illuminated by a bright artificial light properly dis- 
posed, represents perfectly the appearance of the crater in the differ- 
ent phases of the moon. 

Meteorology and terrestrial physics border as much on astronomy as 
on physics, and establish a very natural bond between them. Thus 
it is to our learned professor of astronomy, M. Plantamour, that we 
owe several communications on the meteorological peculiarities of the 
years 1857 and 1858. Independently of his meteorological resume 
of 1858 for Geneva and the Great St. Bernard, he has brought to the 
notice of the society the extraordinary dryness which prevailed from 
the last months of 1856 up to the middle of 1858, and the anomaly of 
temperature exhibited at Geneva and in a great portion of Europe at 
the commencement of November, 1858. From the 28th of October, 
before which it had been higher than its normal rate, the temperature 
began rapidly to sink, and the depression became particularly re- 
markable at the Great St. Bernard. It would seem that this anomaly 
was caused by a northeast wind, which in the northern regions was 
superposed on a southwest current, but in the regions of the south- 
west of Europe descended to the level of the earth's surface, where it 
produced the extraordinary refrigeration which was generally ob- 
served. M. Plantamour noticed, moreover, the extremely mild tem- 
perature of the 25th of December, 1858, (Christmas day,) and in refer- 
ence thereto took occasion to state that the extremes of temperature, 
as observed for the same day, were the maximum of -f- 17°. 4 in 1857, 
and the minimum of — 21°. 7 in 1830. 

Professor De Canclolle has given the society interesting details on 
the organization of Russian meteorological observatories, in particular 
that of Tefflis, whose director is M. Moritz. This latter savant fur- 
nished observations to M. Candolle, and besides gave him information 
with regard to an ascent of Mt. Ararat, during which efforts were 
made to ascertain the depth of the cap of snow which covers the 
mountain, a depth which was found to exceed 30 feet, and is perhaps 
still more considerable. 

A quite remarkable fact noticed by M. Chaix is the absence of 



238 KEPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

snow in the summer of 1858 in many localities which he visited, and 
which, being situated afcove the limit of perpetual snow, are habitually 
covered with it. M. Marcet, from his own observation, remarked 
upon the great inequality in the distribution of snow during the 
winter of 1858, so that while so little had never within the memory 
of man fallen in the valley of Zermatt, there had, on the contrary, been 
extraordinary falls of it in the canton of Uri in May of the same year. 

We are indebted to'M. Chaix for several other communications on 
different points of terrestrial physics and of meteorology. Such are 
those relative: 1st, to the meteorology of Africa, according to obser- 
vations given in the travels of Barth; 2d, to the change in the bed 
of the Yellow river during the last three years, as noticed by Captain 
Osborne; 3d, to the geographical labors executed by the English, and 
more particularly by the brothers Gregory, in Australia, from 1842 
to 1858, in the course of 24 expeditions, which traversed in the whole 
a distance of 32,000 miles, and which led to the discovery of a great 
number of salt lakes, often ephemeral, of twelve large rivers subject to 
the same defect, and of a great number of esculent vegetables, whose 
existence in that continent was not before suspected. 

M. Henri de Saussure, on his part, has communicated observations 
which he had made on the distribution of the waters in the basin of 
Mexico. From these he concludes that the lakes which environ the 
city of Mexico have heretofore occupied a much larger surface than 
at present, the retreat of the lakes having been due chiefly to a canal 
excavated by the ancient Mexicans, and he proclaims the danger of 
inundation which now threatens the city of Mexico in consequence of 
the heedlessness of the inhabitants, who have allowed the canal to 
become completely obstructed. 

We must not forget to mention that our notice has been called by 
M. Chaix to the levellings made by M. Bourdalone with a view to the 
opening of the Isthmus of Suez, from which we learn that the differ- 
ence of level between the two seas is but a few inches. 

General Dufour has likewise communicated the results obtained by 
M. Bourdalone in his levellings of the course of the Rhone, the descent 
of which is 39 metres in its passage across the canton of Geneva, ad- 
mitting that the mean level of the Lake of Geneva is 373 metres above 
the mean level of the Mediterranean. It is true that previous level- 
lings gave an altitude of 375 metres above the ocean; but the difference 
between the two numbers would appear to be owing in great part to 
the level of the Mediterranean being higher than that of the ocean. 

While speaking of the Rhone and the lake, let us recall the obser- 
vation of Professor Colladon on the azure color of their waters, which 
he attributes to particles from the bottom of the lake held in suspen- 
sion by the agitation of the water. He founds this opinion on a fact 
observed by himself, viz: that while the dredging machine was at work 
in winter on one of the shores of the lake, the corresponding arm of the 
Rhone assumed the deep blue tint which commonly is only seen in 
summer, at which season a greater quantity of water and stronger 
current Avould produce the same effect. The cause assigned by M. 
Colladon may possibly contribute in part to the remarkable phenom- 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OP GENEVA. 239 

enon of the coloration of the waters of the Rhone, but, as was objected 
at the time, will not suffice for a complete explanation. 

An interesting communication was received from M. Mousson, of 
Zurich, through M. Soret, the object of which was to show that, in 
the phenomenon of water- spouts, a superior degree of validity must 
be conceded to the theory which refers them to the meeting of two 
currents of air exerting a gyratory force over that which makes them 
depend on an attraction produced by the electric tension of a cloud. 
M. Mousson has succeeded in calculating what force of aspiration is 
to be supposed in the case of a water-spout, and does not find it out 
of proportion with what is possible upon his own theory. 

It is to M. Mousson that we are also indebted for some curious 
experiments on the effect of strong pressure in hindering water from 
solidifying even at very low temperatures, such as 20° below 0°. 
These experiments, communicated first to the Helvetic Society of 
Natural Sciences, were imparted also to our own. 

Here, then, we find ourselves on the confines of physics, properly 
so called, and we enter completely upon them in recalling the com- 
munications of M. Soret and M. De la Rive on the remarkable facts 
respecting the congelation of water observed by M. Forbes, M. Tyn- 
dall, and M. Faraday — facts which prove the error of considering only 
the influence of temperature to be concerned in the solidificatiom of 
water, without taking cognizance of that of the molecular attraction 
which plays so important a part in this as well as in other crystalliza- 
tions. 

It is to electricity above all that the greatest number of communi- 
cations this year relate in what concerns physics, properly so called. 
First come those of M. Volpicelli on the electrostatic induction, made 
one by himself in person, the other through the medium of M. Soret. 
A great number of experiments, conducted under varied conditions, 
and subjected to different modes of proof, seem to have uniformly 
strengthened the confidence of M. Volpicelli in his ideas on the theory 
of induction; but, without entering into details, we here merely re- 
mark that it has been objected that these experiments may be also 
interpreted in a sense favorable to the older theory, so that, although 
very well performed, they cannot be deemed perhaps as conclusive 
as he maintains, at least in that relation. 

Professor Wartman favored the society with an account of some 
attempts he had made, on occasion of the transatlantic cable, to deter- 
mine the effects of pressure on electric conductibility. In submitting 
a copper wire covered with gutta percha to a pressure exceeding 
thirty atmospheres, he observed a small diminution of conductibility,. 
recovering, however, its primitive value when the pressure ceases. 
He has also observed that strong compression on any member — an 
arm, for instance, of a person conveniently seated for the purpose — 
determines a slight but sensible current to a galvanometer of 2-1,000 
coils, in a contrary direction to that of the current which would be 
due to the contraction of the same member. 

M. Tirtoff, a learned foreigner, who was present at one of our ses- 
sions, communicated some experiments made with a view to ascertain 



240 REPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

the influence of the atmospheric pressure on galvanic polarization; 
by which he has found that this influence is inappreciable, and that 
the polarization depends only on the disengagement of the gas in the 
nascent state. New researches on the heat disengaged by the current, 
when it produces an exterDal effect, have satisfied M. Soret of the 
correctness of the results which he had previously obtained, but at 
the same time he insists on the fact that, for an equal quantity of 
chemical action, the external effect produced by a current is not 
always proportional to the diminution of intensity, and he has given 
a proof derived from the action of currents of induction. 

It remains for us to notice two communications of M. De la Rive, 
the one relating to the electro-magnetic rotation of liquids, the other 
to the propagation of electricity in gaseous mediums highly rarefied. 

On occasion of an investigation relative to the rotary action of 
helices and magnets on liquids traversed by electric currents, M. 
Bertin had contested the accuracy of an experiment made thirty-five 
years ago by M. De la Rive, by means of which he had demonstrated 
that when a magnet is hollow the rotation of the mercury placed 
within it takes place in a contrary direction to that of the mercury 
without, the two liquid conductors having the same level and being 
equally traversed by a current radiating from the centre, or converging 
towards the centre. M. De la Rive has resumed this experiment, 
and has varied it by employing as well a hollow magnet of tempered 
steel as a tube of soft iron magnetized either by an encircling helix 
or by a strong electro-magnet. He has made use of tubes of different 
dimensions, both of cast and wrought iron, and has verified the accu- 
racy of his first assertion. A single case only occurred in which the 
rotation took place in the same direction within and without, and that 
was, when employing the hollow magnet of steel, the level of the 
mercury both without and within was below the magnetic pole and 
near the middle of the magnet — an exception which is referable 
probably to the influence of the second magnetic pole. 

In his second experiment relating to the propagation of electricity 
in gaseous mediums, greatly rarefied, M. De la Rive proceeded to the 
consideration of the subject under two distinct points of view, namely, 
the action of the magnet upon currents transmitted across such me- 
diums, and the propagation of the currents with the phenomena 
which accompany it — such, among others, as the stratification of the 
electric light. He began with describing the effects obtained under 
the former point of view, and particularly those relating to the rota- 
tion of luminous currents in different planes and with different veloci- 
ties, according to the conditions of the experiment — a rotation which 
lie had already made known ten years ago. As to the second point, 
he can be said as yet' scarcely to have approached it; yet he has been 
able to conclude even from his first attempts, of which he will com- 
municate the sequel at some future time, that the gaseous medium, 
when traversed by electricity in motion, undergoes, conformably to 
the ideas of M. Riess, mechanical and physical modifications consist- 
ing essentially in alternations of condensation and dilatation. M. De 
la Rive terminates his memoir by pointing out that his new researches 

I 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 241 

have tended constantly to confirm the theory which he had given of 
the aurora boreal is. 

Besides the communications just mentioned, M. De la Rive submitted 
to the society the remarkable improvements introduced by M. Leon 
Foucault, in the construction of curved plated mirrors designed for 
telescopes, and the labors of M. Hoffman, of London, in regard to the 
vegetable parchment which for some years has been manufactured in 
England with great success. 

The last-mentioned communication already touches rather on chem- 
istry than physics, and in effect there remains only, to terminate this 
first part of our report, an account of two important memoirs on 
chemical subjects presented by their authors to the Society. The 
first, by MM. Deville and Troost, is directed to the determination 
of the densities of vapors at very high temperatures, its authors hav- 
ing successively employed, as the source of heat, the vapor of sulphur, 
which boils at 450°, and that of cadmium, which boils at 850°. They 
hope to be able to make use of that of zinc, which boils at about 1200°. 
Among the results obtained, we will distinguish that relating to sulphur, 
which gives 2.2 for the density of the vapor of that substance at a 
very high temperature, contrary to determinations generally received, 
whiph pointed to too high a number and one not in accordance, as has 
been now shown, with the theoretic value. The researches of MM. 
Deville and Troost are in general favorable to the opinion that at a 
very elevated temperature, the elements of compound bodies are dis- 
sociated, ceasing thus to exist in a state of combination. 

The second communication alluded to is that by M. Pyrame Morin, 
on the presence of iodine in the mineral waters of Saxony, in Valais. 
The author had, in 1853, already indicated that this principle is pre- 
sent in the fountain only in an intermittent way — a result which, 
though confirmed by other chemists, had been contested by M. Ossian 
Henry, of Paris. M. Morin has resumed his investigation by employ- 
ing still more sensible reactives than at first; and new experiments 
have been made on sixty-one bottles of the water drawn at different 
times and under different circumstances. He has succeeded in estab- 
lishing with certainty that the quantities of iodine are very variable, 
and that between 0.2257 grains and five millionths, all intermediate 
quantities are met with. These variations take place at intervals of 
time sometimes very distant, sometimes very close; so that several 
oscillations may be observed in the course of a day, which proves 
that the presence of iodine is really intermittent. Sulph-hydricacid, 
whether free or combined, was not detected in the water by M. Morin, 
contrary to the assertion of M. Henry. Bromine and ehloriue exist 
in minute quantity; the latter very constantly, the former only when 
there is iodine. It would seem highly probable that this water of 
Saxony proceeds from two sources, having their origin, the one in a 
certain rock, and the other, from which is derived the iodine, in the 
Cargneule. 

16 



242 REPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 



NATURAL SCIENCES. 

Having mentioned rocks and localities in connexion with the water 
of Saxony, we pass quite naturally, in commencing the second part 
of this report, which regards the natural sciences, to the subject of 
geology. The study of our globe, moreover, in what relates to its 
constitution and its composition, would seem a needful preliminary 
to the examination of the organized bodies which cover it, although 
in turn the former is singularly facilitated by the study of these same 
bodies in a fossil state; geology and palaeontology thus forming a whole 
whose different parts it would be difficult to separate from one another. 
There is no branch, indeed, in the physical and natural sciences which 
involves more numerous relations to every part of our knowledge. 
We see a striking exemplification of this in a memoir relating to 
geologico-archaeological researches in Denmark and Switzerland, which 
M. Morlot has communicated to the society, and which signalizes the 
remarkable relations whicli subsist between the development of 
archaeology and that of geology. In effect, it is only from material 
indications buried beneath the soil that we can ascertain the existence 
of men at an epoch anterior to all traditional accounts. In imitation 
of the Scandinavian archaeologists, M. Morlot divides this ante-historic 
period into three ages— the age of stone, that of bronze, and that of 
iron. It is only with the age of iron that figures of men and plants 
make their appearance, as well as coins and alphabets; it is the aurora 
of history. Different details are presented by M. Morlot respecting 
these three ages, and the material traces of them which have come 
to light. 

As regards geology proper, we have first to notice a memoir by M. 
Marcou on the classification of the new red sandstone in Europe, North 
America, and India. The author considers this great series of strata 
as intermediate between the primary and secondary periods, deciding 
for this middle term after having discussed the often controverted 
question whether the permian ought to be annexed to the secondary 
formations. He distinguishes two formations in this group: 1st, the 
trias, the composition of which is known; and 2d, the dyas, com- 
prising the zecltstein and the rothliegende. — (See Archives des Sciences, 
Ph. et Nat., 1859, t. V.) 

Another geological memoir is that of M. Favre on the geology of 
the Mole, which forms a portion of the great work of our colleague 
on the liasic and keuperian formations of Savoy, (printed in our 
memoirs.) Among other observations of M. Favre we must make 
mention of that which relates to a fine deposit of fossils near the 
summit of the Mole, in which he has succeeded in discriminating forty 
species which pertain to the lias formation; but a remarkable circum- 
stance is, that the fossils of three stages of this formation are asso- 
ciated in one and the same stratum. M. Favre has noticed several 
localities of the Alps and the Cevennes where this association has 
been recognized, and he has been led to the conclusion that the causes 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 243 

are to be found in the physical nature of the deposit and in the sub- 
marine character of the soil. 

Professor Pictet on this occasion submitted to the Society some 
general observations on the association, in the same locality, of the 
fossils pertaining to different formations, an association which he 
thinks may be explained by three different causes: 1st, by the fact 
that the relics of dead animals belonging to one epoch might be pre- 
served for a certain time in the waters containing the living animals 
of the succeeding period — a case which would be very rare; 2d, by 
the fact that some robust species, that is to say, very abundant in one 
stratum, have survived the cataclysm which had occasioned the 
destruction of the general fauna, and reappear in small numbers in 
the succeeding fauna; 3d, by the fact, finally, that one portion of 
the sea has undergone changes less decided than others, and that in 
a gulf, for instance, we find the fossils of two different epochs 
associated, while elsewhere the two faunas remain perfectly distinct. 

We have passed, almost without perceiving it, from geology to 
palaeontology, sciences which in truth are now inseparable; and here 
M. Pictet must be again cited for remarks submitted to the Society 
on a communication by M. de Saussure respecting the discovery of 
fossil bones of domestic animals in the environs of Charleston. These 
bones pertain only to the* postpliocene formation, of which the fauna 
is composed: 1st, of extinct animals; 2d, of animals not living at this 
time in South Carolina, but still existing in other parts of America; 
3d, of species still living in the country. After having shown that 
this formation, in a paheontological point of view, presents the same 
character as the correspondent formations of Europe, and having 
discussed different hypotheses to explain the presence of the fossil 
bones of domestic animals, M. Pictet seems disposed to believe that 
there has been simply an accidental mixture of recent bones with 
postpliocene remains. 

Besides the communications just noticed, M. Pictet read before the 
Society a memoir, in the preparation of which M. Campiche, of Ste. 
Croix, was associated, on the nautili, and more especially cretaceous 
nautili. After reciting that the nautili are one of the kinds, not many 
in number, which are met with in all geological epochs, M. Pictet has 
shown that their distinctive characters may be classed under four 
heads; and though he has essentially occupied himself, in that part 
of his investigation prosecuted in common with M. Campiche, with 
the nautili of the Jura, he and his associate have compared a very 
great number taken from all formations and all countries, with the 
view of arriving at a decision as regards the order of succession in 
their forms. They have ascertained that the definite species of the 
same epoch are exactly alike in all countries, and that this is also the 
case with the types imperfectly defined, so that it becomes an imme- 
diately accessory question whether these types are species or varie- 
ties. This special question recalling M. Pictet to some general con- 
siderations on the subject, he is led to regard the three following laws 
as being at the basis of all palaeontology: 1st, every species has had 
in its palaeontological development a limited duration; 2d, the co- 





244 REPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

temporary species have appeared and disappeared at the same time, 
the causes of appearance and disappearance having been the same 
for all; 3d, neighboring formations present analogous forms. As 
to exceptions which may occur with respect to the two last laws, we 
have indicated a moment ago in what manner M. Pictet has sought 
to account for them. 

Professor D. Candolle, in reference to the geological duration of 
species, cited the investigations of M. Gaudir respecting the fossil 
vegetables of the quaternary epoch in the repositories where certain 
actual species of Europe are found — as the beech, for instance — 
mingled with species which now live nowhere but in the United States; 
this forming an additional exception to the law of the simultaneous 
extinction of species. 

M. De Candolle made, besides, several communications relating to 
vegetable physiology and botany proper, among which may be cited 
an analysis of the researches of M. Duchartre on the organ which 
produces the perfume in the vanilla, and a monographic study of the 
family of Begoniaceas, of which one species (the begonia'' a/ptera) 
presents the remarkable peculiarity of being furnished with parietal 
and unequal placentas, contrary to what takes place in other species 
of that family. He directed attention, also, to the existence of a 
small insect which had, last year, occasioned the destruction of num- 
bers of fir trees. 

In the province of botany we have still further to cite communica- 
tions by MM. Choisy and Duby. The former described to us an 
ivy-plant which he had observed near Peissy, growing on a horse- 
chestnut, and remarkable for its exceptional dimensions as well as for 
the singular fact that the branches hanging free bore leaves of a 
beautiful form and different from those of the branches which had 
attached themselves to the tree. He communicated, besides, a 
memoir on two kinds of plants little known, assigned to the family of 
guttiferae, {gynotroches and discotigene,) which both belong to the 
island of Java. The second of these should continue to be retained 
in the family of guttiferae; the first should be transferred to the family 
of rhizophoraceae, as Blume and Bentham had already pronounced. 

M. Duby, besides some communications on the botanic investiga- 
tions made by learned foreigners, read to the society a paper on a 
species of dothidea, a cryptogam which grows on the Barbary jessa- 
mine, (lyceum europceum,) and which in the same pustules passes 
through three successive states, viz: a pulviscular state, a spermatic 
and a thecasporic one. M. Duby, in presenting the history of the 
development of this minute object, dwelt upon some questions of 
taxonomy which connect themselves with that development, as well 
as on the necessity, in the actual state of cryptogamy, of multiplying 
observations on the evolution of the reproductive organs of cham- 
pignons. 

It remains, in order to complete what we had to say on organic 
natural history, to speak of transactions relating to zoology and ani- 
mal physiology. First in order we find the researches of M. Edouard 
Claparede on the organization of infusoria, presenting, after a review 

1 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 245 

of tlie different opinions put forth on this subject for twenty-five years 
past, the result of his own observations on the structure of these ani- 
mals, accompanied by a series of drawings relative to that structure. 
He first showed that the general type of the infusoria presents an 
exterior cuticle covering a parenchyma of more or less thickness, 
which itself circumscribes the general cavity of the body; the cuticle 
and parenchyma pierced by two openings, which are the mouth and 
anus; then, after describing the mechanism of the circulation of ali- 
ments in the interior of the general cavity of the body, and of their 
digestion in the same, he passes to the examination of the circulatory 
apparatus, which he regards as a closed vascular system comparable 
in all respects with sanguineous systems. After some other details, 
M. Claparede has indicated what are the natural affinities of infusoria, 
and what position should be assigned them as animals related on one 
hand to the vermes tubellarise, and still more on the other to the 
caelenteres, (polypi and acalephi,) as regards their digestion chiefly, 
yet differing from them in a radical symmetry of form, while the 
cselentfires proper are characterized by a radiate symmetry not to be 
mistaken. 

M. Claparede has likewise communicated his microscopic observa- 
tions on the organs in the antennae of insects described as auditory 
by M. Lespes, and has shown that the auditory and otolithic sac 
imagined by that author is but an optical illusion, and that an exami- 
nation of transverse sections, delicately conducted, proves those sup- 
posed organs to be only hairs fantastically modified. In regard to 
the use of the microscope, he has noticed a singular effect observed 
in looking, in the direction of its axis, into a very minute capillary 
tube, which plays the part of a bi-concave lens, although the liquid 
which fills the tube be the same with that which bathes all the parts 
of the body in which the tube is pierced, and although the surfaces 
which limit the liquid be perfectly plane. 

We have yet to recall some other communications by M. Claparede: 
1st, the demonstration of the electrical organs of the malapterure and 
the mormyrus oxythyneus, derived from a dissection of these electric 
fish, specimens of which had been sent him by M. De la Rive; 2d, 
an examination of the researches of M. Lebert on the malady of silk 
worms, from which it seems to result that there is no other remedy 
to be hoped for but the destruction of all the animals attacked; 3d, 
an account of the experiments of M. Heidenheim relative to the appli- 
cation of ligatures on different points of the hearts of frogs, the effects 
of which are entirely contrary, according to the place where the liga- 
tures are placed; 4th, an analysis of the researches simultaneously 
but independently made by MM. Kolliker and Wedl, from which it 
results that the minute channels noticed by English naturalists in the 
shell of most of the molluscs are due to the action of a perforating 
vegetable parasite; channels which M. Claparede had himsef distin- 
guished, in 1855, as not pertaining to the mother shell, but as hol- 
lowed by some parasite, which he then wrongly judged to be of an 
animal nature. 

M. Henri de Saussure continued his account of the interesting 



246 REPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

observations made by hini on the habits of Mexican birds, illustrating 
many facts regarding them which had escaped the attention of former 
travellers. To M. Duby we were indebted for a report on the micro- 
scopic researches of M. Amici relative to the constitution of the 
muscular fibre. 

The investigations of which we have been speaking, however 
special they may be, are none of them deficient in point of general 
interest, whether as forming necessary links in the great chain which 
binds together all the phenomena of nature, or because, considered 
in themselves, they reveal some of the mysteries, every day more 
remarkable, of the physical world. But this is not the only advan- 
tage derived from the introduction of specialty into the study of the 
sciences; one still "more considerable is that from this very specialty 
there spring up between the different parts of those sciences new and 
more intimate relations, in virtue of the greater perfection introduced 
into researches. This connexion is particularly striking in animal 
physiology, to such a degree, indeed, that sometimes we know not to 
what branch of the sciences, physical or natural, we ought tf) refer 
such or such an investigation. Is it to physiology or to physics that 
the researches of MM. Thury and Claparede belong? the former on 
the amount of mechanical force expended in walking, the latter on 
the horopter. Whatever the place to be assigned them, we must 
not omit them in this report, as the authors have communicated them 
to the Society. 

M. Thury has found 7.2 kilogranietres as the value of the labor 
performed by a man for every metre of distance which he travels, 
answering to 10 or 12 kilograrnetres a second, according as the -daily 
course is 8 or 10 leagues, the mean weight of the body being fixed at 
65 kilograms. He deduces from his calculation that the longest 
line over which a man can pass in a day on a horizontal level, without 
permanent exhaustion of his force, is 48,000 metres, (157,473.6 feet,) 
and that the greatest vertical height a man can attain, under the same 
conditions, in ascending along an inclination of ^, is 4,000 metres, 
(13,122.8 feet.) 

M. Claparede communicated a series of experiments designed to 
show that the form of the horopter^ is different from that which, as 
a consequence of the investigations of M. Meissner, German physiolo- 
gists at present assume it to be. The horopter, as Meissner con- 
ceived, is in a majority of cases a right line inclined on the plane of 
vision of a quantity which varies with the distance of the point of 
view. After demonstrating by conclusive experiments that this deter- 
mination is erroneous, and that the line experimentally found by 
Meissner is always perpendicular to the plane of vision, M. Claparede 
believes himself authorized to conclude that this lino belongs to a 
horopteric cylindrical surface, having for its base the horopteric cir- 
cle of Pierre Prevost, rejected by M. Meissner. Subsequent experi- 
ments have convinced him that the horopter is really formed but of 

s The surface of single vision corresponding to any given binocular parallax is called the 
horopter. — (See Nicliol's Encyclopedia of Physical Science ) 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 247 

two lines, to wit: the circumference of the circle determined theo- 
retically by Prevost and wrongly attributed by authors to Vieth. a 
circumierence situated in the plane of vision, and of the right line 
perpendicular to the plane of vision, to which allusion has just been 
made, and of which M. Alex. Prevost, and later M. Fritz Burkhardt, 
had already given a theoretical determination. The horopter of 
Meissner must therefore be entirely rejected. 

It is above all with electricity that animal physiology has relations 
which become every day more intimate. The Society has been occu- 
pied on two or three several occasions with questions which connect 
themselves with this subject. M. Lefevre, of Dijon, has called atten- 
tion to his experiments on muscular and nervous excitability and 
irritability after death, which he has succeeded in measuring by 
determining the intensity of the current necessary to produce excita- 
tion. In operating on the frog he has found that the irritability of 
the sciatic nerve goes on at first augmenting for an hour after death, 
then that it gradually loses its excitability while the muscular con- 
tractiftility develops itself and attains its maximum at the end of 36 
hours; four or five hours before the cadaveric rigidity supervenes. 

Professor De la Rive offered, on his part, some considerations on 
the relations between electricity and the nervous action, while dwell- 
ing more particularly on the experiments recently published by M. 
Bernard, which appear to him more favorable to the identity of the 
two forces than the author seems to believe. M. De la Rive points 
out especially the analogy which exists between the action of electri- 
city and the nervous action as to the peculiar state in which one and 
the other place the nerve, this last not acting as a simple conductor, 
as some physiologists have supposed, but really in virtue of its electro- 
molecular constitution, which may be altered by chemical means, such 
as the vegetable poison known by the name of curare. Recalling the 
remarkable observations of M. Dubois Reymond, which are altogether 
favorable to this way of thinking, he judges that it is not necessary 
to admit in the organic molecules other electric properties than those 
which belong in general to the molecules of inorganic matter, and 
that it is sufficient to suppose that every atom, whether it forms part 
of an organized body or one not organized, is endowed with two 
opposite electric poles. Only in the first case, namely, that in which 
there is life, a new force, the vital force, determines, by the particu- 
lar disposition which it impresses on the particles, an arrangement 
which permits the manifestation of their electric properties. 

I have mentioned the vital force, and here would'be the occasion of 
giving an account of the long and interesting discussion to which the 
simple enunciation of the existence of this force gave rise. There 
was here a general question connected at the same time with the 
most difficult points of organic natural history, and with the most deli- 
cate conceptions of the philosophy of the sciences, namely, those 
which relate to forces, their nature, their mode of manifestation, and 
the relations which exist among them. Hence, the physicists and the 
chemists, as well as the naturalists, took part in this discussion, which 
we must content ourselves here with merely commemorating, without 



248 REPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

pretending to reproduce what would far exceed the necessary limits 
of this report. 

M. Claparede, who first directly entered on the subject, which an 
incidental remark by M. De la Rive had thus introduced, maintained 
that there is an impossibility of pronouncing positively in the actual 
state of physiology, on the existence of vital forces, and that there is 
a necessity, if we admit their existence hypothetic-ally, of considering 
them as general forces of nature, manifesting themselves only under 
certain circumstances, the result of which is organization. 

Dr. D'Espine and M. Thury, in written memoirs, pronounced 
strongly in favor of the existence of special vital forces, proper only 
to organized beings — forces to which M. Thury assigns a peculiar 
character, distinct from that of inorganic forces, considering them as 
schematic forces, that is, producing the type and needing for their 
manifestation the concurrence of the organic forces from which they 
borrow the law of their operation. 

MM. De la Rive, Pictet, Marignac, and Colladon gave in succession 
their ideas on this subject, and while agreeing as to the necessity of 
admitting that there are in organized bodies phenomena which known 
physical forces do not suffice to explain, they yet differed both as 
regards the nature of their arguments in favor of the existence of a 
vital force, and as to the importance of the part fulfilled by this force 
in physiological phenomena. 

After having taken part myself in this discussion, as just stated, 
and having followed with care its different phases, there have re- 
mained on my mind some personal impressions which I may be allowed 
here to reproduce. A first impression is that whatever may be said, 
there is an abyss between the ordinary forces of inorganic matter and 
those which produce life, with the phenomena which accompany it; 
it appears to me, then, impossible not to admit a force, or, if one 
chooses, a special principle of activity in living beings, the absence of 
which constitutes the state of death. A second impression is that 
the notion of a vital force has been often abused by supposing it to 
intervene directly where the intervention of ordinary forces is 
perfectly sufficient, and that in this respect vitalism badly understood 
may have injured the progress of physiology. A third impression is 
that the principal objections urged to the existence of the vital force 
themselves rest on hypotheses still more improbable than the 
hypothesis which they are designed to combat. Thus resort is had 
to the hypothesis of one unique matter and a unity of force, whereas 
nothing rests on less proof; and as to the unity of force in particular, 
they found it on the principle of the transformation of forces one into 
another, without considering that the principle is only true of the 
mechanical effect produced by those forces and not of the forces them- 
selves, and that it is besides impossible not to acknowledge that there 
must be forces or principles of activity not subjected to the law of the 
mechanical effect. 

But enough of this subject. As we have seen, our Society, though it 
is essentially a reunion of men of specialities, does by no means disdain 
general questions. Doubtless it ought not to surrender itself to them, 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 249 

nor does it but in moderation; yet it does not fear, when the occasion 
arises naturally, to broach them with freedom, for it is due to the 
union which subsists between its members, to the kindly familiarity 
which presides at its sessions, that it should indulge in discussion at 
once perfectly free and perfectly courteous, equally remote from too 
much compliance and too much insistence. Let us always preserve, 
Gentlemen, this custom, consecrated by our predecessors, and although 
I am far from proscribing men of genius, if our good fortune should 
introduce such into our circle, let us at least avoid the reproach 
which was attached to them of old, genus irritablle vatum. 

I have thus presented a summary of the transactions which have 
occupied the nineteen sittings of the Society from July, 1858, to the 
end of June, 1859. I have not entered into administrative details, 
which have been few during the year, and which have consisted es- 
sentially in some elections and the publication of the second part of the 
14th volume of our memoirs. In the month of January, Professor Pictet 
De la Rive was designated as vice-president, to become president from 
July, 1859, to June, 1860. M. Edouard Claparede was elected secretary 
for three years, succeeding M. Louis Soret, whose functions had 
expired, and who had declined a re-election. You have provided, 
lastly, by numerous nominations, for the places rendered vacant by 
death in the ranks of our honorary members, and at the same time 
limited to seventy the maximum number of those members. 

Our Society has never made pretension to offer its diplomas to all 
the men who honor science by their labors; hence your choice has 
fallen, as on previous occasions, only upon those among them who 
have been kind enough to give us some testimony of their good will, 
either directly or indirectly. 

I have said that death has made numerous vacancies among our 
honorary members, and though it has not been our custom to speak 
here of those whom we have thus lost, you will permit me, I am sure, 
to make one exception in favor of the individual whom the whole 
scientific world considered as its chief and honored as its presbyter. 

Alexander de Humboldt was the oldest of our honorary members; 
the intimate relations which he had sustained with our two illustrious 
compatriots, Marc-Auguste Pictet and Pyrarne De Candolle, had con- 
stantly predisposed him favorably towards our society and towards all 
the Genevese who were occupied with science. Having myself expe- 
rienced his kindness, I still retain the impression of the friendly 
reception which he extended to me at Berlin in April, 1858. I found 
him then as I had known him thirty years before; his intellect had lost 
nothing of its extent and clearness; his conversation was always as rich 
and animated, his conceptions as lively and as rapid. I shall not 
attempt to recount that long and noble life, nor even to sketch it: it 
is a work of time which would be beyond my strength. I aspire but 
to one thing, to render a modest but profound homage to that vast in- 
telligence which touched on almost all the points of human knowledge, 
and which has left monuments of its activity in every branch of the 
sciences, physical and natural. What essentially characterized Hum- 



250 REPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF, ETC. 

boldt was the necessity of embracing in his researches the whole of 
nature — the Cosmos. Thus it was, above all, the study of our globe 
itself which was the object of his constant predilection, and for which 
he went to gather materials in every quarter of the world. Did uni- 
versality then impair in him to a certain extent originality, and were 
his discoveries less brilliant on that account than those of his 
illustrious cotemporaries ? It is possible: one cannot be at the same 
time a Humboldt and a Volta. But his part has been sufficiently 
honorable and his influence sufficiently great in the world of science 
to leave nothing wanting to the lustre which attends his name. He 
died the 6th of May last, at the age of 90, in the plenitude of his facul- 
ties, full of years and of glory. I cannot better characterize him 
than by recalling here the judgment which he passed upon himself : 
" I am not a savant," he said to me at Berlin, eighteen months ago. 
"The world, then," I promptly replied, "is much deceived in regard 
to you." " No, I am not a savant, such as they represent me," he 
rejoined earnestly; "my principal discoveries have been the discovery 
of learned men, and my principal merit is to have caused science to 
be loved." Perhaps he had reason to regard this kind of glory as his 
first title to the admiration and the gratitude of posterity. There will 
always be savants who will cause science to advance, but the Hum- 
boldts and De Candolles who cause it to advance at the same time 
that they cause it to be loved, who encourage labor in others and 
themselves set the example — these are types as rare as they are 
precious, and when they disappear it is not science alone, but still 
more those who cultivate it, who ought to mourn for them. 



PRESENT STATE OP ETHNOLOGY IN RELATION TO THE 
FORM OF THE HUMAN SKULL. 



By Professor Anders Retzius, of the Carolinska Institute, Stokliolm. 



[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution from the Archives des Sciences Physiques et Nalu* 
relies, Geneva, 1860, by C. A. Alexaddkr.] 

Twelve years ago I presented to the assembly of Scandinavian nat- 
uralists some considerations on the form of the human skull among 
different nations, considerations based upon facts which I had com- 
municated two" years before. The doctrine sketched at that time was 
entirely new, and had been submitted to no competent proof; its 
destiny seemed uncertain, and many gaps remained to be filled up. 
But since that epoch, the classification proposed for skulls of different 
form has been more solidly established, and may be affirmed to be 
complete, as I here propose briefly to show. 

A. — Forms of the Skull in Europe. 

At the time referred to, I had indicated that the majority of the 
nations of western Europe are dolichocephahe, while the brachy- 
cephalse predominate in eastern Europe.* This assertion has since 
been confirmed from different quarters. 

°A communication from Professor J. Aitken Meigs, of Philadelphia, furnishes the trans- 
lator of this paper with material for a note which cannot be otherwise than acceptable, 
whether to the general reader as an explanation of scientific terms, or to those who propose 
to euter on such inquiries, especially to the observant traveller in little-explored countries, 
as an indication from a highly competent source of the measurements proper to be taken 
for determining the ethnographic character of the human head. 

"The late Professor Anders Retzius, of Stockholm, divided the races of men into two 
great groups according to the form of the bead, or rather according to the ratio existing 
between the length and breadth of the skull. Nations in whom the head is developed 
chiefly in the occipitofrontal or longitudinal diameter he called dolichocephdce, or long-heads, 
(from co\i\oi, long, and Kt<pa\rj, head;) races whose skulls are developed in the bi-parietal 
diameter particularly, or in the direction of the breadth, to such au extent as to exhibit a 
more or less rounded or square form, he termed brachycepkalce, or short-heads, (from 0pa\";, 
short, and KscpaXq ) Both the dolichocephalse and brachycephalse he again subdivided into 
the orthognathy, or straight-jawed, (from Option, upright, and yvaQo s , jaw,) andtheprognathrc, 
or prominent-jawed, (from npe, forwards, and yvadog )" In other words, nations with a per- 
pendicular profile are orthognathic, as the Germans, Anglo-Saxons, &c ; those with a retir- 
ing profile are prognathic, as the negro. 

"Retzius's division of the human family," continues Professor Meigs, "is liable to the 
objection that it forces into one or other of these two classes races whose skulls in point 
of conformation occupy an intermediate position. The measurements by which differences 
in size and form of crania are determined are variously taken by different cranio- 
graphers. Some systematic writers make many of these measurements, others apply but a 
few. The oceipito-frontal or longitudinal diameter is ordinarily measured from the glabella 
to the most prominent point of the occipital bone, 'lhe glabella is the prominence on the 
frontal bone, between the orbits and just above the root of the nose. The most projecting 
point of the occiput correspon 's in the majority of cases with the external occipital pro- 
tuberance or boss. This diameter gives the length of the head. The bi-pafietal diameter 
coincides with the breadth of the head, and is generally measured from one parietal protu- 
berance to the other. The depth or vertical height of the skull is measured from the 



252 



PRESENT STATE OF ETHNOLOGY 



Germans. - 



[ Orthognathic. 



Celts. 



DolichocepJialce of Europe. 

' Norwegians and Normans of France and 
England, 

Swedes, 

Danes, 

Hollanders, 

Flemings, 

JBurgundians, 

Germans of the German stock, 

Franks, 

Anglo-Saxons, 

Goths in Italy and Spain, 

Scottish Celts, 

Irish Celts, 

English Celts, 

Welsh, 

Gauls of France, Switzerland, Germany, 
<fec, 

Romans proper, 

Ancient Hellenes and their descendants, 
Since the period when for the first time I announced this classifi- 
cation, which may be found in the transactions of the first meeting 
of Scandinavian naturalists at Christiana, I have examined a great 
number of individuals descended from Norman families in France and 
England. All these, without exception, have preserved the same 
oval form of the skull which characterizes the Normans properly so 
called in Norway. I have studied, besides, by hundreds, the Swedish 
heads found in ancient tombs or in cemeteries, or obtained from ana- 
tomical amphitheatres, and in all these skulls the same form which 
I had described has been found to prevail. 

Some years ago, in levelling the Riddarholm, an entire cemetery 
was laid open, in which were found skulls and relics of skeletons. A 

middle of the anterior margin of the great foramen in the base to a point in the vault of 
the cranium directly above. The frontal diameter or breadth of the forehead is measured, 
between the most protuberant points of the frontal bone, behind and above the external 
angular processes. The breadth of the face is taken between the zygomatic arches. The 
height or length of the face is the distance between the point of the chin and the root of 
the nose. The horizontal periphery is measured by means of a graduated tape passed 
around the cranium below the superciliary ridges of the os-froutis, and over the external 
occipital protuberance. This is the horizontal circumference of the calvaria or head proper. 
The occipito-frontal arch is measured from the root of the nose over the top of the head 
in the median line, to the posterior margiu of the great foramen at the base. These are 
the most important external measurements of the skull; many others, however, might be 
enumerated. In my own system, as yet unpublished, I have adopted 54 different dimen- 
sions as necessary to express fully all the ethnological peculiarities of the cranium." 

Other terms, it may be added, have been proposed for the designation of particular forms 
of the cranium, as platycephalic for those distinguished by horizontal expansion of the ver- 
tical region, a feature which, when joined with somewhat low elevation of forehead and 
great width between the angles and condyles of the lower jaw, imparted to the counte- 
nance, says Professor J. B. Davis, of England, that quadrangular appearance so commonly 
observed in the statues of ancient Romans of consular and imperial times. Aaocephalic 
or elevated, whose leading characters are " great antero-posterior length; smallness of bi- 
parietal measurement, with apparent compression of the sides; roundness and projection of 
frontal region; absence of sagittal suture; this last being the determining cause of all the 
other peculiarities." — (Report of the British Association, 1857, p. 146.) 



IN RELATION TO THE FORM OF THE HUMAN SKULL. 253 

large proDortion were in perfect preservation, and the skulls pre- 
sented, almost without exception, the characters of the German type. 
A result altogether similar was furnished by the examination of skulls 
found in the city of Stockholm itself, at the place known by the name 
of Sjalagaordsgata, (Street of the Abode of Souls,) near which there 
was once the cemetery of a convent. 

Since the epoch of my first researches I have visited Copenhagen 
and studied a great number of skulls belonging to the museum of that 
city; I have also had an opportunity of examining the skulls of a great 
number of Danes, and have found the German dolichocephalic form 
•well maintained. I have verified the same fact in Holland and in the 
Flemish portions of Belgium and France. Moreover, Professor Vro- 
lik, of Amsterdam, has sent me skulls of the same form found in the 
ancient tombs of Holland. 

During an excursion in Great Britain in 1855 I was able to satisfy 
myself anew that the dolichocephalic form is predominant in England 
proper, in Wales, in Scotland, and in Ireland. Most of the dolicho- 
cephahrj of these countries have the hair black and are very similar 
to Celts. 

Through the kindness of a distinguished archasologist, M. Frederic 
Troyon, whose activity is well known, I have received for the museum 
of Stockholm several skulls of Burgundians, derived from the ancient 
tombs of that race in the Canton de Vaud. All present the same 
Germanic form. 

The first Roman skull that I had an opportunity of seeing was sent 
to me by the late Dr. Prichard. It had been picked up on an ancient 
field of battle near York with another skull of different form. Dr. 
Prichard desired to know my opinion on the nationality of these two 
skulls, but he studiously kept from me any information which might 
serve to guide my conclusions. I ascertained that the first of these 
two skulls had a dolichocephalic form altogether peculiar, which was 
not yet represented in the collection of the Carolinska Institute. I 
found, however, that this form coincided perfectly with the descrip- 
tion and figures of Roman skulls which have been left by Blumenbach 
and Sandifort. The other skull was smaller, much elongated in form, 
straight and low, and had evidently belonged to a Celt. My con- 
clusion then was that the former was a Roman and the latter a Celtic 
skull. This judgment fully satisfied Dr. Prichard, since these two 
skulls had been found, as he told me afterwards, in a field called in 
other times the field of the emperor Severus, and that the Celts 
(Belgoe, Brittanorum) had been defeated in that place by the Romans. 
The Celtic skull bore on its posterior part the mark of a mortal blow, 
received, doubtless, in the act of flight, while the wound which had 
caused the death of the Roman had passed athwart the orbit. Since 
that time many authentic Roman skulls have been found and studied 
by Drs. Davis and Thurmam. Some of them were shown at the 
British Association for the Advancement of Science, which met at Glas- 
gow in 1855, and Dr. Davis has conferred on the museum of the Carolin- 
ska Institute at Stockholm a specimen of a Roman skull in good pre- 
servation, taken from a columbarium near the Appian Way, not far 
from Rome. All these skulls offer a remarkable resemblance in form 



254 



PRESENT STATE OF ETHNOLYGY 



and dimensions. They are of dolichocephalic form, bat extraordina- 
rily large, principally above the ears, with the parietal tuberosities 
largely developed, the occipital protuberance very projecting, and 
altogether of considerable volume. 

I have introduced the Hellenes into my enumeration of the doli- 
chocephala? of Europe. My reasons for this were elsewhere given 
in 1847.* Nevertheless, according to all the facts that I have able to 
collect, the dolichocephalic form has never appertained to the ma- 
jority of the Greek nation, which presents, on the contrary, the char- 
acters of the brachycephala?. The brachycephalic form appertains 
to the Greek Sclaves, as well as to the majority of the Levantines and 
of the Pelasgi, the Albanians of the present day. In the paper before 
cited I have already drawn attention to the fact that certain antique 
statues, such as those of the Apollo, the Venus, and others of the 
most noble character, pertain to the dolichocephalic type, while 
others, like those of the Jupiter and Hercules, are brachycephalic; 
which differences result, no doubt, from the difference of the races to 
which the individuals belonged whom the artist wished to represent. 

Brachycephalce of Europe. 

Under this head are comprised — 
Samoieds, 
Laplanders, 
Woguls, 
Ostiacks, 
Permians, 

Wotiacks, J- Orthognathic. 

Tsheremisses, 
Mordwins, 
Tshuwashes, 
Magyars, 

( Finlanders, 
Finns • • • • •< Esthonians, 

( Livonians, 



Ougrians, 
(Muller, Latham) 



Turks 



Orthognathic, 



Sclaves. 



Czeckes, (Bohemians,) 
Wends, 
Slovacs, 
Morlacs, 
- Croats, 
Servians, 
Poles, 
Russians, 
Modern 'Greeks, 

Lettes or Lithuanians, 

Albanians, 

Etrurians, 

Rhetians, 

Basques, 



- Orthognathic. 



- Orthognathic. 



* V. Oefversigt af Kongliska VeteDsk. Academ. forhandligar, 8 September, 1847. 



IN RELATION TO THE FORM OF THE HUMAN SKULL. 255 

I have not myself had the opportunity of examining several of the 
populations enumerated in this table; reiving, however, on data de- 
rived from various sources, I venture to pronounce the opinion that 
they all ought to be ranged among the Brachycephahe. It seems, 
indeed, a feature in the order of the world that all the dominant races 
of eastern Europe, which occupy the vast tract of Russia in Europe, 
Turkey, Greece, and a great part of the Austrian empire, are brachy- 
cephalic. • 

Many interesting skulls belonging to some of the tribes just enu- 
merated have been recently received by the museum of Stockholm. 
Thus the celebrated anatomist of Vienna, Professor Hyrtl, has sent 
me the skull of a Croat of the military frontier, characterized by its 
height, its capacity, and its almost cubic form; also a Morlac skull 
from Daltnatia, large, lofty, and bracbjcephalic. Several Slovac 
skulls from Olmutz have been procured for me by Professor Bons- 
dorff, with two Esthonian skulls, a Turkish, and several Finnish ones. 
Professor Willebrand, of Helsingfors, has sent me two Carelian skulls. 
Moreover, I have myself examined several living Rhetians, as well as 
Basques; and I have received from Dr. Eugene Robert, of Paris, some 
superb Basque heads for our museum. On different occasions I have 
met with brachycephahe Scots from northern Scotland and the isles to 
the north of it. During my last sojourn in Scotland I encountered again 
divers individuals pertaining to this same type, having an expression 
altogether peculiar, their visage being often short and somewhat large, 
their hair red, the skin of their faces marked with freckles. Since 
then I have learned from the report of travellers that this type is 
common in the Highlands, where it is indigenous from a remote an- 
tiquity. I suppose that it has descended from the Finns, or perhaps 
the Basques.* 

B. — Forms of the Skull in Asia. 

Dolichocephalai of Asia. 



Orthognathic. 



Hindoos, 
Arian Persians, 
Arabs, 
Jews, 

r\i -^ ' {-Prognathic, 

t/hmese, j ° 

The area inhabited by these populations is restricted to the southern 
regions of the great Asiatic continent, viz: the following countries: 

* Since this was written, the author has been able to examine a considerable number of 
skulls of Tuscany, Lombardy, Piedmont, Tyrol, and Switzerland, and has arrived at the 
conviction that the brachycephalic form prevails in those countries in company with the 
black color of the hair. The same remark may be made with regard to a majority of the 
inhabitants of Baden, Wirtemberg, and Bavaria. In France, the Basques offer the same 
characters as to the form of the head and color of the hair. It is nearly the same with 
the population of Saxony and Austria. In these last countries the population is, without 
doubt, of Sclavic origin, while it is probably of Greek origin in Italy, Tyrol, and Switzer- 
land. — Note by the anchor. 



256 PRESENT STATE OF ETHNOLOGY 

Arabia, Persia, Hindostan, and China, (not comprising Mongolia and 
Chinese Tartary.) Whether to the north or south of this area, we 
find brachycephalic populations, which are, moreover, disseminated 
here and there among dolichocephalse of Asia. 

I have here arranged the Chinese and Tongouses among the doli- 
chocephalas, though they have been generally classed by others among 
the Mongols. In effect, the examination of a great number of skulls 
has confirmed *he observation which I had made long ago, and which 
Latham has cited, * that the Chinese proper have the head elongated, 
with the occipital protuberance very prominent; but this promi- 
nence is associated with a decided jutting out of the parietal tuberosi- 
ties, which causes the contour of the skull to approximate to an 
elongated pentagon more than an oval. I have received several 
skulls of Chinese, whether real or moulded in plaster, from England, 
through Dr. J. B. Davis; from Holland, (Prof. Van der Hoeven;) from 
St. Petersburg, (M. V Baer;) and from the expedition around the 
world of the frigate Eugenia, (Messrs. Anclersson, Kinberg, Eckstro- 
mer;) all present, as it seems to me, the same characteristic form. 
As regards the Tongouses, I ought to observe that I have but a single 
skull to serve as the basis of my decision, to wit, a mould in gypsum, which 
was sent me in exchange by Professor Purkinje, of Prague. I have 
every reason to believe that this mould is from the Tongousian skull 
which Blumenbach has described and figured in his second decade: 
" Facie plena ad arcus zygomaticos latissima, fronte depensa, &c, olfactus 
officina amplissima, occiput mirnm in modum retro eminens ita ut 
protuberantise occipitis exterme distantia a dentibus incisoribus supe- 
rioribus 9 pollices Eequaret.'M' The collection of Blumenbach belongs 
now to the museum of the Physiological Institute of Gottingen, where 
it is in charge of the learned director, Professor Rudolf Wagner, 
who has had many of the most remarkable skulls of the collection 
moulded by a skilful artist, in order to place them within reach of 
other museums. 

A striking resemblance is to be remarked between this Tongousian 
skull and those of the Esquimaux. The form of the face is identical: 
the visage is flattened, very large above the zygomatic bones, the 
upper jaw ample and prominent; the arch formed by the alveolar 
processes and the teeth is large, as among the Esquimaux and Green- 
landers. The same conformity exists in the capacity of the head, the 
elongation and size of the occipital protuberance. These characters 
again are to be found in a large portion of the Chinese skulls of our 
collection, and it is on this account that I have thought that in this 
Tongousian skull might be discovered the intermediate link between 
the form of the skull of the Chinese and that of the Esquimaux. 

<* Natural History of the Varieties of Man, 1850, p. 16, "Physical Conformation." 
f Decas Collections sure Craniorurn diversarum Gentium, II, Table XIV. 



IN RELATION TO THE FORM OF THE HUMAN SKULL. 257 



Bracliyccplialce of Asia. 

Ugrians, (Samoiedes, Yakouts, &c.) 

Turks. 

Circassians, and probably a majority of the numerous tribes of the 
Caucasus. 
Turcomans, 
Afghans, 
Lascars, 

Tartars and Mantchoo-Tartars, f a11 P ro S»athic. 

Mongols, as well in Asiatic Russia as in Mongolia, 
Malays, 

The "Indian Mongolidse," in Dr. Latham's Varieties of Man, pro- 
bably belong also to this division. 

These populations embrace all the great Asiatic continent, with the 
sole exception of the countries of the dolichocephalic organization 
which I have given above, namely, India, Persia, Arabia, China, and 
a small part of Siberia, The brachycephalge, however, as before in- 
dicated, form small communities disseminated through the midst of 
the dolichocephalic tribes already enumerated. In Asia, then, as in 
Europe, the brarhyeephalic form of the skull is predominant, but with 
this difference, that the Asiatic brachycephalas are, the greater part 
of them, prognathic. 

C. — Forms of the Skull in Australia. 

DolichocephalcB of Australia. 

Australian negroes, all prognathic. 

Our information relative to these people is yet so incomplete that 
I have not ventured to present a table of denominations, and I limit 
myself to saying that by the" study alike of the Carolinska Institute 
collection and of others, and by an examination of many published 
works, I have acquired the conviction that dolichocephalic tribes exist 
on nearly all the Australian islands. All the savage nations of the 
Australian continent proper, New Holland, and of Van Dieman's 
Land, appear to be prognathic dolichocephalae. On the other isles 
we find in addition brachycephahe, (Malays, Polynesians, and Papous 
of G-uoy and Gaimard.) Most frequently these tribes are black or black- 
ish. Hence the name of Australian negroes has been given them. More- 
over the form of their skulls resembles altogether that of the negroes. 
Many of these tribes have the hair closely crisped, but long and, so 
to say, felted into a bushy perruque; others have it straight. Our 
collection possesses the skulls of such brought from a great number 
of the isles of the South Sea and Pacific. They resemble one another 
in a striking manner, and in general are small, but thick, presenting 
in this point of view also an approach to the negro type. They are 
in size much less than the Chinese, but they have, like them, large 
parietal protuberances which rarely occur among the negroes. Their 
17 



258 PRESENT STATE OF ETHNOLOGY 

occipital protuberance is much developed and a little compressed 
laterally. The zygomatic arch is not greatly salient, nor is the nose 
flattened as in the negro; the brow is narrow and low. I hare lately 
received from Professor Bonsdorff, of Helsingfors, skulls of this form 
brought from Woahu, in the archipelago of the Sandwich islands. 
The Danish frigate Galatea has furnished several others from the 
Nicobar islands, on which Professor Ibsen made an interesting report 
to the convention of Scandinavian naturalists at Stockholm, in 1851, 
besides having had the kindness to remit one of the specimens to our 
anatomical museum. 

Through the kind offices of Dr. R. G. Latham, our museum is also 
in possession of a skull of the nation of Borneo, which is known by 
the name of Dayak. This is equally dolichocephalic. The half of 
another is preserved in the collection of the University of Christiana, 
and presents the same peculiarities of form. I have seen, moreover, 
many altogether similar at London. These Dayak skulls are small, but 
solid; their parietal protuberances are rather smaller than those of 
.Australian negroes. All the skulls of Dayaks that I have seen are 
ornamented with figures symmetrically carved on the front, vertex, and 
•temporal regions as far as the lambdoidal suture; some of which 
figures are colored a dark brown, with here and there small spots of a 
bright red or blue. "Before a young man can aspire to matrimony," 
says Dr. Latham, speaking of these Dayaks, "he must lay at the feet 
of his betrothed the head of a man of another tribe, slain by his own 
hand. Every marriage, then, supposes a murder. I suspect, however, 
that this observance is not so general as the rule exacts. Another 
■ characteristic trait of the Dayaks is their passion for possessing skulls; 
hence skulls form the chief ornament of a Dayak house, and their 
ipossession is the best proof of virility." 

From all that I can draw from different data, the Dayaks are black 
of color, like the majority of the Australians. I believe that all the 
tribes called Alforous, or Haroforous, are prognathic dolichocephala3, 
like the majority of those to whom we give the name of Papous or Pa- 
puans,* but who are not to be confounded with the brachy cephalic 
Papous described by Guoy and Gaimard. A great number of tribes 
among these Australian negroes construct their habitations on piles 
reared above the water. M. Troyon has shown that the ancient in- 
habitants of Switzerland had dwellings of a like construction, as was 
the case also, according to Herodotus, with the Pasonians of Mace- 
donia. Most of the Australian negroes occupy the interior of islands, 
and certain tribes inhabit the mountains. 

Brachyceplialce of Australia. 

Malays, \ 

Polynesians, (Dieffenhacli,) Vail prognathic. 

Papous, (Guoy and Gaimard,) j 

The above are, in my opinion, properly called Oceanic Mongols by 
Dr. Latham. The Malays, recognizable by their yellow skin, their black 

<* Ethnological Library, conducted by E. Norris, vol. I. 



IN RELATION TO THE FORM OF THE HUMAN SKULL. 259 

and shining hair, their projecting mandibles, pertain likewise to the 
peninsula of Malacca. They are so well known as the most intelligent 
and, after their manner, the most civilized of the islanders of the 
South Sea, that it would be useless in this short sketch to dwell upon 
them. Their skulls are scarcely wanting in any ethnographic col- 
lection. 

I class as Polynesians the dusky or brownish skinned inhabitants of 
the Tonga islands, of New Zealand, of Otahiti, of the Sandwich 
islands, and of a great number of groups of less considerable islands 
dispersed through the Micronesian archipelago of the Pacific. The 
skulls of Polynesians have generally the occiput more flattened 
than the Malays; their jaws and teeth are less prominent; the 
skulls themselves larger than those of the Malays proper. The 
Polynesians are commonly large, well proportioned, and rather 
muscular, and in character and temper compare favorably with the 
Malays. In the royal ethnographic collection of the Carolinska Insti- 
tute, there are skulls from the Sandwich islands and New Zealand 
which might be ranked in the first class for size, and particularly for 
height. 

PAPOUS OF GUOY AND GAIMARD. 

(Mops-Papus of Dampier.) 

Dampier, Forrest, and several old travellers mention a particular 
people of blackish brown color, inhabiting the shores of the islands 
near the north coast of New Guinea, who are to be distinguished from 
the other islanders of the Pacific by many peculiarities, especially by a 
profuse head of black hair, which is so finely crisped as to present the 
appearance of being frizzled. Guoy and Gaimard, who accompanied 
De Freycinet on the corvettes Uranie and Pliysicienne had made us 
more exactly acquainted with this people and the particular form of 
their skulls. The most important point which results from their ob- 
servations, as appears to me, is that their skulls are entirely different 
from those of the Australian negroes. While these latter, as indi- 
cated above, are quite low, narrow, of elongated oval form, and 
provided with a greatly projecting occipital protuberance, the skulls 
of these Papuans are, on the contrary, according to Guoy and 
Gaimard, high, short, large, and flattened on the occiput. "The 
heads of these Papuans," they say, " present a flattening both before 
and behind, accompanied with a considerable development of the 
jaws. The skull is of remarkable height, the parietal protuberances 
salient, and the temples very convex; the anterior part of the temporal 
regions, across which the coronal suture prolongs itself below the level 
of the semicircular line of the temples, presents a peculiar and very 
marked projection.* The nasal bones are placed almost vertically, 
compressed backward as it were. The nasal apophysis or frontal of 
the upper maxilla is large and made much more prominent than usual 

I discover that this peculiar projection exists also in general in the heads of Malays 
and Polynesians. — Author. 



2 GO PRESENT STATE OF ETHNOLOGY 

in consequence of the position of the nasal bones. The upper maxilla 
is much larger than in the European, because of the great develop- 
ment of the dental process which gives to the visage of these 
islanders an unusual amplitude. The nasal openings are very large 
towards the base, even more so sometimes than in the negro. The 
alveolar process is unusually thick at the sides where the molars are 
inserted; the palatal vault rather large than long." 

The museum of the Carolinska Institute possesses three samples of 
brachycephalic Papuans, which all strikingly resemble one another, 
and correspond perfectly with the above description. I shall only 
add that they strongly resemble the skulls of Polynesians previously 
mentioned, only differing from the latter in a greater depression of 
the bridge of the nose, the largeness of the zygomatic arches, and the 
amplitude both of the fossa? nasales and the alveolar arch. 

Guoy and Gaimard, who describe only the Papuans of the two 
islands Yagiou and Ravak, report that their inhabitants call them- 
selves Papua, and are distinguished by positive marks from the 
indigenous blacks of New Guinea, who entirely resemble the negroes 
of Eastern Africa; that they live on the coasts, subsisting chiefly on 
fish and mollusks, and build their houses on piles in the waters of the 
country. Those who inhabit the mountains of Vagiou call themselves 
Alifourous, and are mentioned as Alfours, Haraforas, &c, by different 
travellers. The skulls in our possession from the islands of this 
quarter, present the dolichocephalic negro form before spoken of, 
being narrow, low, and oblong, with a prominent occipital protu- 
berance. 

We find an interesting paper-" in the Ethnological Library, con- 
ducted by Ed. Norris, vol. I, descriptive of the Papuans of these 
parts, from which we learn, on the authority of Lieutenant Bruijn 
Kops, of the royal marine of Holland, who accompanied an expedition 
in 1810, and landed on the coast of New Guinea opposite the island of 
Dori, that the men of the latter, whom he calls Papuans of Dori, are 
five and a quarter feet, sometimes five and a half, in height, of a dark 
brown color, occasionally black, having black crisped hair, often very 
long, though with the appearance at times of having been shaved. 
In a plate we see one of them represented with the hair dressed after 
the fashion of a turban, to which these Papuans are indebted for the 
name of Mops-Papus. M. Bruijn Kops states that the indigenes 
of New Guinea divide themselves into Papuans and Alforous, the 
former inhabiting the coasts, the latter the interior and the moun- 
tains, though the distinction of race between them can at present 
only be accounted a probability, owing to the imperfect indications 
afforded by M. Kops. He extols the Papuans as a people intrinsi- 
cally good, not addicted to theft, holding the aged in respect, kind to 
their children, and faithful to their wives. Chastity is held in great 
honor, and but one wife is permitted, the union to whom is for life. 
They are, however, partial to strong drinks, nor is it discreditable 
among them to steal children and make an article of commerce of 

« By Mr. George Windsor Earl. 



IN RELATION TO THE FORM OF TIIE HUMAN SKULL. 261 

them; but the children thus taken are well treated and restored for a 
ransom. The trade in slaves is general, though these are well treated. 
Of the manner in which crimes are punished, we have the following 
particulars: The incendiary becomes the slave of the injured party 
with all his family. The man who intentionally wounds another is 
fined the price of a slave. The thief is condemned to restore what is 
taken and something in addition. All waste committed in a fruit 
grove or plantation must be repaired. The sin against the sixth com- 
mandment is punished with death, or in case the injury admits of repa- 
ration, still with severe punishment. The man who does violence to 
a woman is bound to espouse her and pay to her parents the ordinary 
value of ten slaves. When illicit association occurs, the woman is 
exempt from punishment, and if not married is free from all dishonor. 
Everything is here estimated according to the standard value of a 
slave. 

The majority of the Papuans of Dori are idolaters; a small number 
are Mahometans, with priests from the islands of Ceram and Tidore. 
The idol of the Pagans, called Karioar, is rudely sculptured in wood, 
about eighteen inches high, deformed, having a large head with pointed 
nose and wide mouth, well furnished with teeth. Its body is usually 
clad in a piece of calico, and its head covered with a handkerchief. 
Every house has its idol, which must be present on all important oc- 
casions and is consulted as an oracle. These Papuans have also 
fetiches, most frequently images of serpents and lizards, suspended 
from the roof or carved on the posts of the doors. They have a kind 
of priests, avIio are also their physicians and sorcerers. Their houses 
are built on posts in the lakes, with plank walls. According to the 
drawing given us by M. Earl in the paper w r e are following, these 
houses resemble large shallops with openings like port-holes; the inte- 
rior divisions are formed by mats, and the floor by rude planks tied 
together. 

These Papuans work in iron and other metals, and in some sort 
devote themselves to agriculture, or rather, to speak more exactly, to 
the culture of legumes; but the training of domestic animals is un- 
known to them. The chase and fishing constitute the principal occu- 
pation of the men, the women being employed in the w T ork of the 
household; both in the chase and in war they use bows and arrows, 
but do not poison the latter. Even the fish are taken with arrows 
and with lances, and sometimes also with nets. 

The Papuans passing much of their time on the sea, the canoe 
forms an important part of their riches. They have small canoes for 
children, larger ones for daily use, requiring two rowers, and others 
still larger, for twenty rowers. Each of these skiffs is formed from 
the trunk of a tree; those of larger size having a mast and mat sail. 
Such frail barks being unequal to long voyages, the commerce of these 
coasts is in the hands of strangers, especially of the Chinese. The 
government of Holland founded, in 1852, a factory at Port Humboldt, 
on the northern coast of New Guinea, which authorizes us to hope for 
more exact information respecting the inhabitants of the interior. 

I have allowed myself to enter into somewhat circumstantial details 



262 PRESENT STATE OF ETHNOLOGY 

regarding these Papuans of the northern coast of New Guinea, be- 
cause our knowledge of them is still involved in much obscurity. We 
see, meantime, that M. Kops considers them as belonging to a differ- 
ent race from the Alfourous. Though no great ethnographic rigor 
seems to have been employed in applying the names Papuans and 
Alfors, or Alfourous, it would seem to be generally understood that 
by the former are meant the indigenes of the coast, and by the latter 
those of the interior and the mountains. The term Papou seems 
derived from the Malay expression for crisped or woolly hair, (rambut 
pua pua,) which has come to be applied to the inhabitants of the coast, 
whose hair is of that description. The name of Alfourou comes from 
the Portuguese word alforas, which properly signifies an enfranchised 
slave. The Portuguese employed this term to designate the free 
indigenes of the interior of the Moluccas, wishing thereby to dis- 
tinguish them from the inhabitants of the cities. As applied at 
present to the inhabitants of the coast and the interior, the two 
denominations appear, as far as can be gathered, to pertain to two 
distinct races. 

I ma}^ be permitted to cite here an important passage from Dr. 
Prichard on the subject of the Alfourous of these countries. " What 
can we make," he says, "of the Alforic race, which has been de- 
scribed as a people apart, with a peculiar type and a peculiar form 
of the skull ? It continues to be one of the most remarkable varieties 
of the human race. We must join with it the mountaineers of Arak, 
in New Guinea, seen and apparently well described by Lesson, as well 
as the other indigenes of the great continent of Australia. ' ' 

In his instructive work before cited, Dr. Latham has admitted two 
varieties under the head of the Papuan branch of the Kelonesian stock, 
New Guinea. He publishes two remarkable profiles of their skulls, 
taken from the "Voyage of the Uranie and Physicienne," one of 
which has the traits of a dolichocephalic negro, while the other is 
brachycephalic, like those of the brachycephalic Papuans cited above. 
May not these figures pertain respectively, the former, or dolicho- 
cephalic skull, to an Alfourou, and the latter, or brachycephalic one, 
to a Papou? Yet the author attributes to the former frizzled hair 
and to the latter straight. 

In relation to the place assignable to the brachycephalic Papous, 
the main object of this section, I shall conclude by expressing the 
opinion that it should be sought in the immediate neighborhood of 
the brown Polynesians, of whom these Papuans are probably the stock 
or the progeny, modified after some special manner by peculiar modes 
of life, climate, &c. Mr. Earl rejects entirely the opinion that they 
might be hybrids, and, as far as I can judge, with very sufficient 
reasons.* 

°The celebrated academician of St. Petersburg, M. C. de Baer, has recently enriched 
ethnological bibliography with two productions of great merit, entitled Crania selecta ex 
thesauris anthropologicis Academics Imp. Petropolit. Pttrop., 1859, and Ueber Papuas und Alfu- 
ren, ein commentar zu den beiden ersten Abschnilten der Abhandlung " Crania Selecta," &c. , 1859. 
The learned author of these publications expresses very positive doubts as to the fact that 
the skulls brought from Waigion by Guoy ani Gaimard really belonged to indigenous 
Papuans. The skulls in question were taken from a tomb, and M. de Baer considers it 



IN RELATION TO THE FORM OF THE HUMAN SKULL. 263 



D. — Africa. 

All the people of this continent are dolichocephalic. This fact, to 
which I have heretofore had occasion to draw attention at different 
times, and which I do not know to have been contradicted by any- 
one, is altogether peculiar to this portion of the world. Europe, 
Asia, the lands of the South Sea, America, comprise populations be- 
longing to the two forms of head. In Europe, and still more in Asia, 
the brachycephalse much exceed in point of numbers; in the isles of 
the South Sea the two forms are nearly balanced, I think, as to num- 
bers, but the brachycephalas have the moral preponderance. On 
the other hand, the brachycephalic populations are, to all appearance, 
completely unrepresented in Africa. The museum of the Carolinska 
Institute possesses an important collection of African skulls, of North 
Africans. Abyssinians, Copts, Berbers, and Guanches. All present 
the same form of the upper half of the skull, being large, capacious, 
oval, resembling much those of the Arabs. The Abyssinian skulls, 
which we owe to the liberality of our countryman, M. Behm, and the 
Copts, are slightly prognathic. The Guanches, of which we have 
four, all belonged to individuals of advanced age, who had lost their 
teeth; their alveolar processes having consequently become rudimen- 
tary, their prognathism is but slightly perceptible. 

In all these skulls, whether of Abyssinians or Egyptians and Gu- 
anches, the vault of the skull is depressed in an arch elongated 
towards the occipital protuberance, which is a little compressed at 
the sides; the parietal tuberosities are little prominent. We may 
regard this form of skull as prevailing on the coasts and .the flat 
country of northern Africa. It is again found on the other side of 
the Atlantic, in the Carib islands and in certain of the eastern parts 
of the American continent. The museum possesses, for the south of 
Africa, a considerable number of skulls pertaining to divers of the 
Caffre tribes. They much resemble negro skulls. Some are a little 
larger than a majority of these last, but the greater part have jaws 
and teeth horribly prominent. One among them, from the interior 
of the country near Port Natal, is remarkable for its diminutiveness, 
for the complete absence of all trace of parietal protuberance, and for 
an occiput nearly pointed. Our museum contains, also, the entire 
skeleton of a Hottentot, but neither in this nor in the figures of Hot- 
tentots and Bosjessmans left us by Blumenbach and Sandifort can I 
discover any important difference from the heads of negroes in gene- 

extremely probable that the remains found in this tomb had pertained to some hostile race 
of the Malayan branch. He maintains, on the contrary, that the Papuans are dolichoce- 
phalic, although they deviate in some respects from the indigenes of the interior (Alfou- 
rous) as regards the form of the skull. In brief, he expresses himself on the subject iu the 
following manner: "Cranium Alfurorum aliquorum sii/iilitudinem habet cam cranio 1'apHarurn, 
nam ad dolickocephala etiam perlihet; est veto amjilius et potissimum altitudine el latitudine praxedit." 
Loc. cit., p. 11. 

The same observations might be made with regard to other skulls obtained under anala- 
gous conditions. With a view to decide the question, it were to be wished that skilful 
naturalists who hereafter visit the country of the Papuans would examine the form of the 
skull of living individuals. — Note of the Author. 



264 PRESENT STATE OF ETHNOLOGY 

ral. Many ethnologists have considered the Australian negroes as 
nearly related to the Hottentots, but the skulls of the former which 
have come under my observation have the parietal protuberances 
more marked than the latter. These protuberances are deficient, 
however, in the Dayak of Borneo, in our collection. 

E. — Foems op the Skull in America. 

In an ethnological point of view there can properly be no question 
here but of the savage or half savage tribes which inhabited the con- 
tinent before its discovery by the Spaniards. The number of these 
tribes amounts, we know, to some hundreds, of which many are 
already extinct, and the rest are perishing from year to year. Pro- 
found and extensive researches have been made respecting them, but 
chiefly on the subject of their languages. No European savant, since 
Blumenbach, has produced a craniological work so instructive as the 
Crania Americana of Dr. Morton; nevertheless, the results of this 
work cannot entirely satisfy us. This author, who has given us such 
numerous and valuable facts, as well as the linguists who have studied 
these American languages with indefatigable zeal, have arrived at the 
conclusion that both race and language in the New World are unique. 
I am obliged to avow that the facts adduced by Morton himself, and 
the study of numerous skulls with which he has enriched the museum 
of Stockholm, have conducted me to a wholly different result. I can 
only explain the fact by surmising that this remarkable man has al- 
lowed the views of the naturalist to be warped by his linguistic 
researches. For, if the form of the skull has anything to do with the 
question of races, we cannot fail to see that it is scarcely possible to 
find anywhere a more distinct distribution into dolichocephala) and 
brachyccphalai than in America. It would be only necessary, in 
order to show this, to direct attention to certain of the delineations 
in his own work, where the skull of the Peruvian infant, (pi. 2,) the 
Lenni-Lennape, (pi. 32,) the Pawnee, (pi. 38,) the Blackfoot, (pi. 40,) 
<fec, as clearly present the dolichocephalic form as, on the other hand, 
his Natchez, (pi. 30 and 31,) and the greater part of his representa- 
tions of the skulls of Chili, Peru, Mexico, Oregon, &c, are distinct 
types of the brachycephalic. Conclusive, however, as the plates are, 
I should scarcely have ventured to advance these remarks if the rich 
series of our own collection, and the numerous and excellent figures 
of Blumenbach, Sandifort, Van der Hoeven, &c, did not declare in 
favor of my opinion. 

From all, then, that I have been able to observe, I have arrived at 
the opinion that the dolichocephalic form predominates in the Carib 
islands and in the whole eastern part of the American continent, from 
the extreme northern limits to Paraguay and Uruguay in the south; 
while the brachycephalic prevails in the Kurile islands and on the 
continent, from the latitude of the straits of Behring, in Russian Amer- 
ica, Oregon, Mexico, Equador, Peru, Bolivia, Chili, the Argentine 
Republic, Patagonia, to Terre del Fuego. 

There can be no doubt that the Carib race was the predominant 



IN EELATION TO THE FORM OF THE HUMAN SKULL. 265 

one, not only in the lesser Antilles, but the neighboring continent 
where we now find Venezuela and Guiana, and all the Carib skulls 
which I have observed, or of which we have any account, are dolicho- 
cephalic. With regard to the Indians of Brazil there is a general 
concurrence in assigning them to the Tupi of the Portuguese, who, 
more to the south, received from the Spaniards the name of Guarani, 
of whom Dr. Prichard has somewhere said: "This great race, Tupi 
or Guarani, is spread over the whole eastern coast of South America, 
from the mouth of the river De la Plata to that of the river Amazon.' 7 
Towards Upper Paraguay it extended over almost the whole central 
part of the continent, and in the province of Dhaco it reached the 
eastern slope of the Andes, and even penetrated the valleys of that 
great chain. Mention is also made of the Guarani in Bolivia, New 
Grenada, and other countries. Apparently the ancient Peruvians of 
Morton and the Huanchas of M. de Tschudi are also Guarani, though 
their skulls were much deformed by the elongation produced by arti- 
ficial compression. The skulls of this race, as well as the Carib, are 
dolichocephalic, and of much capacity, with the jaws quite large. 

Towards the north we find on the Atlantic coast, both of the United 
States and Canada, a predominance of the dolichocephalic form among 
the tribes, that is to say, who pass under the general name of red- 
skins, as the Algonquins and Iroquois. The same result may be 
definitively arrived at from a study of the delineations given by Mor- 
ton of Cherokees, Chippeways, Miamies, Oneidas, Hurons,Pottawato- 
mies, Cayugas, (particularly remarkable,) Cotonays or Blackfeet, tfec. 

To these facts it must be added that the Esquimaux, who extend 
also to the eastern coast, belong equally to the dolichocephala?, though 
holding an altogether special place among them. Many authors con- 
sider the Esquimaux as related to the Tschjoudes, as well as to the 
Mongols. Morton himself, in the ethnographic part of his work, classes 
them in a common family with the Samoiedes and the Laplanders, 
and gives it the name of the polar family ; stating that this singular 
race is found only on the northern limits of the continents of Europe, 
Asia, and America. He calls them Mongol- Americans. Nothing could 
be more inexact than this assertion, as far at least as the form of the 
skull is admitted to have weight in the question of the affinities of 
race. In my first essay on this subject, laid before the Assembly of 
Scandinavian Naturalists in 1842, I placed the Greenlanders among 
the prognathic dolichocephahc, and had the pleasure of finding myself 
fully sustained in this view by such competent judges as Eschricht, 
Van der Hoeven, Ibbsen, and Nilsson. Messrs. Eschricht and Ibbsen 
have probably seen more skulls of Greenlanders than any other phy- 
siologists of our age, and the former, in a discourse before the Associ- 
ation at Christiana, in 18-14, delivered himself to this effect: "The 
Greenlanders and Esquimaux pertain to a people among whom the 
form of the head is of an altogether special type, and I rest my deci- 
sion on the skulls of Greenlanders in the pl^siological museum of 
Copenhagen." Now these skulls, which he exhibited, have exactly 
the form of those on which I based my own opinion. I find myself 
sustained also by the figures and descriptions of Esquimaux skulls 



2G6 PRESENT STATE OF ETHNOLOGY 

given by Blumenbach and Sandifort, and even by those of Morton 
himself. It is evident that this latter accomplished naturalist has 
allowed himself to be more guided by opinions already formed than 
by a scrupulous examination of facts. He saw that the form of the 
Esquimaux visage has something of the Mongol, and paid no attention 
to the salient occipital protuberance and other characters so little like 
the Mongol. I have already adverted to the great resemblance in 
form which exists between the Esquimaux skull and that of the 
Tongousian which we have at the Carolinska Institute, and to the 
description which Blumenbach has given of a Tougousian skull, which 
coincides entirely with the characters of the Esquimaux. In the 
large collection of Chinese skulls in our Institute I trace a striking 
resemblance in form with those of both the Tongousians and the Green- 
landers. The inference would be that the Esquimaux is a polar race 
only in America; that it is thinly scattered over the islands of the 
polar sea., the most northern regions of America, and thence, passing 
from east to west, through Asia towards China, where we might 
identify it with the pure Chinese part of the population, but little 
distinguishable in appearance from the Tartaro- Chinese portion. 

With regard to the other primitive dolichocephahe of America, I 
entertain an hypothesis still more bold perhaps, namely, that they 
are nearly related to the Guanches in the Canary islands, and to the 
Atlantic populations of Africa, the Moors, Tuaricks, Copts, &c, 
which Latham comprises under the name of Egyptian-Atlantidse. 

This is not the first time that, in speaking of our collection of skulls, 
I have called attention to the resemblance of those of Guanches and 
Copts on the one side, and the Guaranis of Brazil on the other. 
Above I have shown that the latter are related to the race of the 
ancient Caribs of the Antilles. We find, then, one and the same form 
of skull in the Canary islands, in front of the African coast, and in 
the Carib islands on the opposite coast which faces Africa. The 
color of the skin on both sides of the Atlantic is represented in all 
these populations as being of a reddish brown, resembling somewhat 
leather tanned brown; the hair the same; the features of the face 
and build of the frame, as I am led to believe, presenting the same 
analogy. 

These facts involuntarily recall the tradition which Plato tells us in 
his Timeus was communicated to Solon by an Egyptian priest, re- 
specting the ancient Atlantis, situated in the ocean in front of North 
Africa, and afterwards engulfed through some great change in the 
distribution of land and water. Though embracing many particulars 
of pure invention, Avould it be unreasonable to claim that, coming as 
it does from a quarter to which common consent refers the origin of 
our sciences and arts, this tradition deserves attention in connexion 
with facts which seem to point in the same direction?* A Swedish 

* We leave to philologists the task of showing how little probahle it is that tin; Indians, 
■whose languages are poiysynthetic, should be related to the Semites, whose linguistic sys- 
tem is based on dissyllabic roots. But with regard to the tradition of the Atlantis, we 
must remark tbat the submersion of a large continent situated so near the tropics, would 
have had the effect of a considerable refrigeration of the northern hemisphere, pro- 



IN RELATION TO THE FORM OF THE HUMAN SKULL. 267 

geometer, M. Helleberg, who resided long in Ohio, learnedly defends 
the opinion maintained by many others, that the Indians of North 
America are descended from the tribes of Israel, alleging that their 
features are essentially Jewish, that McKenzie saw the Chippeways 
practice circumcision, &c. Without meaning to adopt this opinion as 
my own, I vet refer to it as bearing favorably on the hypothesis ad- 
vanced above respecting the primitive kindredship of the Carib and 
Guaranic races on one side of the Atlantic, and the Guanches on the 
other, the latter being in turn nearly allied to the races of North 
Africa, whose resemblance to the Jews, as regards the face and form 
of the skull, is very close, and who present a complete contrast to the 
Mongol tvpe on the Asiatic side. Morton has remarked that "the 
primitive Egyptians, the Misraimites of Scripture and descendants of 
Ham, were directly affiliated with the nations of the Lybian family, 
and in their physical traits were intermediate between the Indo-Eu- 
ropean and Semitic races." In view of the developments of modern 
geology respecting the rise and subsidence of vast tracts of laud, 
there would seem to be nothing absurd in admitting that America 
was once united with Africa or Asia, and obscure traditions to this 
effect are said still to exist among the American Indians. 

The brachycephalic tribes of America are found for the most part on 
that side of the continent which looks towards Asia and the islands 
of the Pacific, and they seem to be related to the Mongol races. A. 
de Humboldt, the first of modern naturalists, has expressed himself 
in favor of this view, which new proofs appear every day to corrobo- 
rate. Some of these American brachycephalics possessed a high 
degree of culture at the period of the Spanish conquest, and the in- 
fluence which this civilization exerted over most of the inhabitants 
of the continent has disposed many eminent ethnologists to infer the 
unity of the whole American race. Thus Dr. Latham has been led 
to comprise them all under the significant appellation of American 
Mongolidce, an extension which ethnological craniology will by no 
means countenance. Morton, too, as has already been said, main- 
tained a unity of race, witli the exception of the Esquimaux, esteem- 
ing the brachycephalic type as predominant among all the tribes, and. 
furnishing positive proofs of its existence at least on the western 
coasts. For my own part, I have long been convinced of the con- 
sanguinity between the brachycephalee of America and those of Asia 
and the Pacific islands, and that this characteristic type may be 
traced uninterruptedly through the long chain of tribes inhabiting the 
west coast of the American continent from Behring's Straits to Cape 
Horn. In my work on the skulls of the Indians of the Pampas, (Om 
Pampas Indianernas Granier, 1855,) I announced the opinion which 
I now reaffirm, respecting the distribution of the Indian tribes into 
dolichocephala) and brachycephahe. as well as the relationship of the 

duciug a complete revolution in vegetation, especially in the basin of the Mediterranean, 
and wns, therefore, much more likely to have engraved itself on the. memory of the Egyp- 
tians than any other circumstance of the supposed catastrophe. Yet we hear ol no coin- 
cidence of such a revolution of climate with the disappearance of the Atlantis — Note by M. 
E. Cl'Jjyarede, (French tramlator. ) 



2G8 PRESENT STATE OF ETHNOLOGY 

former to the Gnanclies and other Atlantic populations, and of the 
latter to the Mongols. A strong confirmation of this last position 
may be found in the learned researches of M. Daa, respecting the 
linguistic affinities of the people in question. 

The observations of intelligent travellers in all the countries bor- 
dering on the Pacific leads us to the same definite conclusion with 
regard to the predominant type in all of them. Thus, for Russian 
America, we have the testimony of M. H. J. Hohnberg, who has 
long resided in that distant country, and whose useful researches 
have been given to the world in a separate series of the Actes de la 
Societe Findlandaise des Sciences, Helsingfors, 1855. The skulls of 
Oregon were familiar to Morton, to -whose liberality we ourselves owe 
the possession of two, as we are indebted for another to Professor 
Meigs, of Philadelphia. I have shown elsewhere that they belong 
to the brachycephalic Mongol type, and afford the better indications 
from not having undergone the artificial vertical compression in use 
among the people of those regions. The Aztecs are represented in 
our museum by three skulls found in an ancient cemetery near Mexico, 
which was uncovered in digging intrenchments to protect the Mexi- 
can capital against the armies of the United States. They are re- 
markable for the shortness of their axis, their large flattened occiput, 
obliquely truncated behind, the height of the semicircular line of the 
temples, the shortness and trapezoidal form of the parietal plane. 
They present an elevation or ridge along the sagittal suture; the base 
of the skull is very short, the face slightly prognathic, as among the 
Mongol-Kalmucs. They bear a strong analogy to the skulls of Peru- 
vian brachycephala} delineated by Morton. 

"Everyone," says this last-mentioned savant, "who has studied 
this subject attentively, knows that the skull of Peruvians presents a 
flattened and almost vertical occiput. It is, besides, characterized by 
an elevated sinciput, great inter-parietal breadth, considerable weight 
of bone, prominent nose, with the maxillary region large and prog- 
nathic. It is the type of the skull among all the tribes from Cape 
Horn to Canada, in a degree more or less marked." There can be 
no doubt that the skulls of the Araucanians of Chili are brachycephalic, 
and present a striking resemblance in form to those of the Peruvians 
and Mexicans. The same type is again recognized in the Pampas of 
the republic of Buenos Ayres, and throughout Patagonia, to the limits 
of Terra del Fuego. With the skulls of the Indians of Terra del 
Fuego I am only acquainted through the excellent portraits in profile 
taken during the voyage of Captain Fitzroy, (Narrative of the Sur- 
veying Voyage, &c, 1839.) These show that the inhabitants of this 
country are even more distinctly brachycephalic than the Indians of 
the Pampas. 

To the tribes which we have thus cursorily reviewed, in proceed- 
ing from the north towards the south, we are disposed, after Dr. 
Latham, to apply the name of American Mongolida?. Our review 
has chiefly been confined to the coasts, but they have also penetrated 
very far into the interior, in the direction of the east. Thus, on the 
authority of the great work of Morton, Crania Americana, we encoun- 



IN RELATION TO THE FORM OF THE HUMAN SKULL. 2G9 

ter them on the banks of the Lower Mississippi, (the Natchez.) in 
Louisiana, (the Chetimachees, ) in Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, 
(the Muskogees or Creeks, and the Uchees or Seminoles of Florida,) 
in Wisconsin, (the Menomonees and Ottigamies,) in Arkansas, (the 
Osages.) Morton has, besides, described and drawn skulls of a like 
form from tombs in the States of Virginia, Ohio, and Tennessee. 
Two skulls of the Mongol type of the United States were presented 
by him to the Carolinska Institute, the one a Sac Indian of Missouri, 
the other a Menomonee of Michigan. As regards the dolichocephalic 
family, I have previously traced its progress as far as Peru; but since 
the occupation of America by Europeans, no considerable change in 
their place of residence has occurred in the case of any of the tribes. 

It would not seem out of place, before terminating this rapid esti- 
mate of the influence which the study of the human skull has exer- 
cised on the development of ethnology, to say something respecting 
the artificial deformation of the skull. This pagan custom, which had 
been mentioned by different writers. Oriental, Greek, or Roman, was 
long totally forgotten by the civilized world till it was discovered, as 
an unheard-of wonder, to be the usage among several Indian tribes 
in America. Blumenbach, in describing a Carib skull from St. Vincents, 
notices that the possibility of such artificial deformation had been de- 
nied by Sabatier, Camper, and Artaud, but himself completely refutes 
their opinion. Even after this, for a long interval, the subject ceased 
to attract attention, till Pentland brought from Peru the singular 
skulls described by Tieclmann, (Zeitschrift fur Physiologie, Band V, 
p. 107,) moulds of which in plaster are to be found in many collec- 
tions, public and private. Many other heads, artificially deformed in 
different ways, were subsequently procured from the same part of the 
world, and at last the publication of the Crania Americana of Morton 
placed before us a complete history of this custom and of the manner 
in which these deformations are produced by the Indians of different 
tribes. The accounts thus received from America had the effect of 
causing this absurd and pagan custom to be generally regarded as of 
essentially American origin. Still the real existence of these artifi- 
cial deformations continued to be called in doubt; the celebrated 
anatomist, Tiedmann, himself declared for the natural oiigin of these 
strange forms, and the Swiss traveller and naturalist, Tschudi, shared 
his opinion. In 1849 appeared a remarkable memoir by M. Rathke, 
showing that similar skulls had been found near Kertsch, in the 
Crimea, and calling attention to the book of Hippocrates De Acre, 
Aguis et Locis, Lib. IV, and a passage of Strabo, which speak of the 
practice of modifying the shape of the head by means of bandages as 
being in -use among the microcephalic Scythians. Many similar skulls 
from the country of Kertsch have since been described by Dr. Carl 
Meyer. 

In 1854 Dr. Fitzinger published a learned memoir on the skulls of 
the Avars, a branch of the Uralian race of Turks. . He pointed out 
that the practice of compressing the skull had been signalized by 
ancient authors as existing in several parts of the Empire of the East, 
and at the same time described an ancient skull greatly distorted by 



270 PRESENT STATE OF ETHNOLOGY, ETC. 

artificial means which had been found at a more recent epoch in 
Lower Austria. In 1854 I received from M. Troy on, of Switzerland, 
two ancient skulls of like shape derived from Switzerland and Savoy, 
respecting which I made a report to the Academy of Stockholm in 
1854. From the account given by Ameclee Thierry, in his History of 
Attila, I had learned that the custom of artificially deforming the 
head proceeded of old from the Mongols, from whom it was borrowed 
by the Huns, and that it was employed as the means of conferring a 
certain aristocratic distinction, just as Hippocrates reports it to have 
been practiced for the same purpose by the Scythians, and as is still 
the case among the Indians of Oregon. At the same time I was 
enabled to show that this custom still exists in France, where it has 
without doubt been perpetuated since the time when the Huns were 
masters of the country. This custom, still existing in certain parts of 
France, has been mentioned and described by Dr. Foville in his work 
on the anatomy of the head, though the author seems scarcely to 
have perceived the historical significance of the fact. Shortly after 
the date last referred to I received from Professor Geffroy, of Mar- 
seilles, a confirmation of the fact that this custom is still persisted in 
in the south of France, not far from Marseilles. From a passage in 
the works of Vesalius we are led to infer that it exists also in several 
parts of Turkey. 

We can no longer doubt, then, that this practice of giving an arti- 
ficial form to the skull has subsisted from a remote epoch among the 
Oriental nations. As Thierry, moreover, pronounces it to be a Mon- 
gol usage, I have submitted the question, in the memoir before spoken 
of, whether this fact does not speak in favor of an ancient communi- 
cation between the Old and the New World? Such a communication 
seems, indeed, to be now placed beyond doubt by the proofs which 
have been accumulated, from time to time, through the efforts of 
numerous and zealous inquirers. It would seem likely that the usage 
in question has been introduced by the Mongols into America, where 
it has become diffused even among tribes not of the Mongol stock. 
Among the greater part of these the compression seems to have been 
effected on the occiput with the view of rendering this fiat and short'. 
The compression of the top of the head among the Indians of Oregon 
(Flat-heads) has no doubt sprung from their proximity to the Esqui- 
maux, whose heads are full and large. The frontal compression 
(Huanchas, Caribs) seems to have been designed to render the head 
more dolichocephalic, and was exclusively practiced by dolicho- 
cephahe, for whom I propose, in analogy with the term used by Dr. 
Latham, as mentioned above, the name of American Semites. 



MEMOIR OF PTRAMUS BE CANDOLLE. 271 



MEMOIR OF PYRAMUS DE CANDOLLE. 

By M. Flourens, Perpetual Secretary op the French Academy of 

Sciences, 1842. 

[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by C. A. Alexander.] 

The Academy has lost, within a few years, three members whose 
labors have profoundly influenced the progress of the natural sciences: 
Georges Cuvier, to whom we owe the widest application of those 
sciences of which probably the genius of man is capable ; Laurent 
de Jussieu, who seems by his method to have given them a language 
for ideas, as Linnaeus by his nomenclature had given them one for 
things; and it has but just lost M. de Candolle, who opened with a 
brilliant theory the long series of happy conceptions and daring aims 
of the nineteenth century. 

Augustin-Py ramus de Candolle was born at Geneva the 4th of 
February, 1778, a month after the death of Linnaeus, two months 
after the death of Haller, and three after that of Bernard de 
Jussieu — a circumstance which we may be permitted to recall, as he 
would almost appear to have imposed on himself the task of replacing 
those three great men in the service of botany. 

He was descended through his father from one of the most ancient 
families of the nobility of Provence — a member of which, having 
embraced the reformed religion, had taken refuge in Geneva in 1590. 
This ancestor, as well as the father of our subject, had reached sta- 
tions of much eminence in the service of their new country, the latter 
having attained, at a very early age, the post of first syndic, which is 
the highest of the republic. His mother was grand-niece of the cele- 
brated Genevese, Le Fort, who was, at one and the same time, grand 
admiral, general-in-chief, and first minister of Peter the Great. 

The infancy of De Candolle reminds us in some respects of that of 
Cuvier; in both cases there was an intellectual and tender mother; 
in both an infant of delicate health and the most happy disposition. 

Debarred by bodily weakness from the usual sports of childhood, 
the young De Candolle formed a decided taste for the pleasures which 
attend the development of the understanding. From the age of six 
to seven years he exercised himself in the composition of comedies. 
At this period, Florian, who was a friend of the family, came to spend 
a winter in Geneva. "You see this gentleman," said Madame de 
Candolle, one day, to her son, "he is the author of many charming 
theatrical pieces." "Ah," replied the child, with the tone of one 
of the fraternity, " you write comedies; well, so do I." A serious 
malady placed his life for some time in jeopardy, and the studies of 
college were necessarily pursued with reserve, but literature, and 
especially poetry, lost nothing thereby. What he wrote was, for the 
most part, in verse, and masters and scholars stood always between 
the chances of an epistle or an epigram, according to the humor of 
the moment. Nothing as yet presaged the future savant or botanist, 



272 MEMOIR OF PYRAMUS DB CANDOLLE. 

but it was impossible to mistake the indications of an ingenuous char- 
acter and of elegant tastes, which needed but suitable circumstances 
for their development. 

The course of these peaceable studies was, however, soon to be 
interrupted. In 1792 a French army occupied Savoy and approached 
the gates of Geneva. The women and children were sent to seek an 
asylum in the interior of Switzerland. In vain did the young De 
Candolle entreat to be allowed to remain with his father and partake 
in the defence of his country. His years were judged too immature, 
and he was obliged to withdraw with his mother and a young brother. 
A village at the foot of the Jura, near Lake Neufchatel, was the place 
of their refuge. 

Here the charms of nature first touched and captivated him. 
Flowers were at first gathered only to copy them; but he soon en- 
gaged with ardor in forming a collection, and undertook long and 
adventurous excursions for the discovery of new plants. Already 
this future rival of the law-givers of botany, though he knew only 
the vulgar names of plants, felt himself tormented by the necessity 
of classifying them, and as he Avas without books, he classed them 
according to their natural relations, as the mind is always prompted 
to do when not spoiled by false systems. 

Some years after this period, a French mineralogist, distinguished 
by his useful labors, and since still more celebrated for his illustrious 
misfortunes, traversed the mountains of Switzerland. Dolomieu saw 
the young De Candolle and was struck with his ardor for study. His 
patronage was offered and accepted; and our Genevese, already secure 
of his own powers by the trial which he had made of them in soli- 
tude, came to seek in Paris at once masters and rivals. Here, from 
the first, all the higher courses of instruction received his attention; 
but, irresistibly attracted by botany, he gave a decided preference 
to the garden of plants. 

On quitting Geneva he had promised his father to devote himself 
also to the study of medicine. He tried to do so, but in vain. The 
sight of the sick plunged him into profound sadness. He could not 
bear the idea, which is, in truth, a formidable one, of taking upon 
himself the responsibility of their sufferings. His was a daring intel- 
lect, but a sensitive heart, and he longed for pursuits in which he 
might err without dread. Thus when, in after times, he happened to 
fall into some error with respect to the name or classification of a 
plant, he would say with a sort of satisfaction, "thanks to heaven, it 
is only a plant which is wrongly named." 

Having renounced medicine, he thenceforward scarcely left the 
garden. Day after day he might be seen engaged, from morning till 
night, in observing or describing plants. All respected a youth whom 
nothing as yet distinguished but industr}^, while the gardeners, seeing 
him pass whole days on the same modest bench, came to designate 
him from its situation as the young man a Varrosoir. 

Such perseverance did not escape M. Desfontaines, who, one day, 
approaching him, said : " M. Redoute has made a collection of draw- 
ings of succulent plants, and wants a botanist to describe them; 



MEMOIR 01 PYRAMUS DE CANDOLLE. 273 

would you charge yourself with that labor?" Startled at this unex- 
pected proposition, the youth would have excused himself, as well on 
account of the difficulty of the subject as his own defect of Knowledge. 
" Yon will see," said the good Desfontaines, " that it is not as difficult 
as you imagine; come and work at my house; I will direct you." 

The- reputation of De Candolle commenced at twenty years of age 
with the Histoire des Plantes Grasses. But shortly a labor of a higher 
and more original character designated more clearly the rank which 
he was to take in science. He had fortunately conceived the idea 
of occupying himself with the sleep of plants. 

The first step was to assure himself that air goes for nothing in 
this phenomenon; for plants which sleep, when immersed in water, 
pass as usual from sleep to waking and from waking to sleep. Setting 
aside, then, the action of air, there remained that of light. The plants, 
therefore, were placed in darkness, and alternately exposed to its in- 
fluence and to that of light. By illuminating these plants during the 
night, and leaving them in obscurity during the day, De Candolle suc- 
ceeded in completely changing the hours of their waking and sleeping; 
he saw the nocturnal plants open in the morning, and the diurnal in 
the evening. 

These curious experiments, being communicated to the Academy, 
excited the most lively interest; and, indeed, the results obtained bv 
the author may be said, without exaggeration, to have possessed 
something of the marvellous, even for the vulgar. By the aid of arti- 
ficial light alone he had colored etiolated plants green;* had changed 
the hours of sleep and waking; and had proved the remarkable fact 
that plants hare habits; for it is not all at once, but only at the end 
of a certaiu time, that they discard their ordinary hours and adopt 
others. Thus the life of plants is shown to be a more complicated 
phenomenon, and one much more nearly approaching that of animals 
than had been yet suspected. They have their activity and repose, 
their sleep and waking, and likewise their habits; so that when De- 
lille, celebrating these results in verse, proceeds to say, 

The calyx of the credulous flower is duped ; 

we feel that poetry ; in view of such facts, has almost lost the privi- 
lege of being metaphorical. 

Fontenelle has remarked "that botany is no sedentary and slothful 
science which may be acquired in the repose and shade of the closet; 
it demands that its votary should traverse mountains and forests, 
climb the acclivities of rocks, and expose himself on the edge of 
precipices." Applied in the first instance to Tournefort, these ex- 
pressions would have been doubtless thought by their author equally 
applicable to De Candolle. The Flore Fraticaise, the flora of that 
vast empire which was every day extending its frontiers by victory, 
furnished him with the occasion for many fatiguing expeditions. His 

° It is necessary to remark, however, that the coloration was imperfect — the plants, as 
he himself said, rureaining intermediary between etiolated and green ; nor had the arti- 
ficial light, which he employed, sufficient intensity to develop oxygen gas. M. Humboldt 
had already observed the same phenomenon : Comptes rendus de l Academie, Tome XV, p. 
1194 — Author. 

18 



274 MEMOIR OF PYRAMUS DE CANDOLLE. 

exploration of the higher Alps would alone prove that the enthusiasm 
of science has an intrepidity which yields to no other. On one occa- 
sion, wishing to reach the Great Saint-Bernard by the almost im- 
practicable col Saint-Remi, he found himself, after climbing the col, 
obliged to descend a frozen declivity, excessively steep, and termi- 
nating in a precipice. The guides were before, marking the steps with 
their iron-shod staves, while our traveller followed in silence. All at 
once his footing fails him, and sliding with frightful rapidity, he hears 
cries of distress from his guides, who can afford him no succor. At 
last he perceives a slight fissure in the ice, and, thrusting his staff 
forcibly into it, is stopped. To cries of distress succeed those of joy; 
the most intrepid of his guides comes to him by a long circuit, and, 
tracing a path in the snow, conducts him to a place of safety. "Ah," 
said this brave man, embracing him, "no one has ever caused me so 
much anxiety." 

On occasion of the inquiries, before mentioned, respecting the 
habits of vegetables, De Candolle, though but twenty-two years of 
age, had been inscribed by the Academy on the list of its candidates* 
Adanson said of him, that "he had established himself on the high- 
way of science." Cuvier had chosen him for his substitute in the 
chair of Natural History at the college of France, and Lamarck con- 
fided to him the second edition of his Flore Francaise. This edition 
became in the hands of De Candolle an original work, which may well 
serve for a model in extended labors of its kind. He had but just 
executed it when a vacancy occurred in the Academy by the death of 
Adanson. Besides the works already mentioned, De Candolle had 
published an important one on the Astragali; an essay full of interest 
on the medical properties of plants; researches, equally new and in* 
structive, on the pores of leaves, on the vegetation of the misletoe, &c. ; 
and, resting on such titles, might well aspire to the nomination. But 
it was carried in favor of Palissot de Beauvais by two or three voices, 
to the sensible chagrin of De Candolle. He had been for some time 
pressed by the faculty of medicine of Montpellier to accept the chair 
of botany, which had been successively occupied by Gouanand Brous- 
sonnet, and though hesitating till now, he hesitated no longer. He 
accepted the chair, and resolved to quit Paris. 

Was this well or ill done ? To consider the motive only of his 
resolution, the hasty counsel of a wounded susceptibility, assuredly not 
well; but if we consider the important results which accrued to botany 
from his sojourn at Montpellier, perhaps the answer will be altogether 
different. Would Paris have left him the same leisure for protracted 
labors ? The same calm for abstract meditations ? The same liberty of 
ideas ? The same originality of views ? And to say all in a single word, 
would De Candolle have been as complete^ himself as he has been t 

At the moment of his departure from Paris an embarrassment arose 
which threatened wholly to disconcert his purpose. On concluding 
the Flore Francaise, he had devoted himself to a not less important 
work on the botanical geography of France, Geographic Botanique de 
la France, and with so much ardor that rather than abandon it, and 
thus lose the modest salary which scarcely defrayed the expense of 



MEMOIR OF TYRAMUS DE CANDOLLE. 275 

his excursions, he would have promptly renounced the professorship. 
Fortunately for Montpellier, M. Cretet, minister of the interior, when 
consulted on the difficulty, replied, "Let M. De Candolle choose: he 
shall either have both the places, or neither one nor the other." And 
a few days after the same dignitary gave even more distinct expres- 
sion to his high estimate of De Candolle, though still couched under 
the brisk form of a sally. M. Laplace having called on him in com- 
pany with De Candolle, and wishing to give in some way expression 
to the high esteem he entertained for the latter, had said to the minister, 
"Your excellency does us an ill turn; we had hoped to have soon had 
M. De Candolle at the Institute." "Ah, your Institute ! your Insti- 
tute!" exclaimed M. Cretet. And while Laplace looked at him with 
surprise, he added, "Do you know that I sometimes feel inclined to 
order a battery of guns to be pointed against your Institute? Yes, a 
battery, in order to disperse the members throughout France. Is it 
not deplorable to see all the luminaries congregated in Paris, and the 
provinces in ignorance? I send M. de Candolle to Montpellier to 
carry thither the spirit of activity." 

In effect, the influence and efforts of De Candolle soon infused life 
into all the studies of Montpellier. The spirit of Linnaeus reigned 
there almost exclusively; and unfortunately, by the spirit of Linnams 
must here be understood the spirit of artificial methods.* All the 
labors of the last half of the eighteenth century, all the new philosophy 
of science, all the grand ideas elaborated by the Adansons, the 
Jussieus, the Cuviers, had remained unknown or disregarded. Hence 
the lessons of De Candolle had all the freshness of novelty for this 
isolated province; those admirable lessons, which afterwards repro- 
duced in three great works, have afforded valuable instruction to all 
Europe, 

These three works are the Theorie Elementaire de la Botomquc, the 
Organographies and the Pliysiologie Vegetale. Of these, the first, pub- 
lished in 1813, is the most important, for it was in this that the 
author laid the first foundations of his general theory of the organiza- 
tion of beings. 

Every age seems to impose on itself the solution of some new 
problem; thus, as regards the phenomena of life, the eighteenth 
century was chiefly engaged with the problem of methods and the 
problem of the revolutions of the globe. The question of methods, so 
ably discussed in the seventeenth century by Tournefort and Ray, in 
the eighteenth by Linnaeus, Adanson, and Bernard de Jussieu, finds 
its solution, towards the end of the latter century, through the 
labors of Laurent de Jussieu and Georges Cuvier. The question of 
the revolutions of the globe commences in 1575, with some specula- 
tions of the potter, Bernard Palissy; two centuries afterwards Buffon 

c " They had heen introduced there by Saurages, and directly applied by him to the regular 
classification of maladies by classes, genera and species See his Nosologia 31ethodica, a re- 
markable work for the time at which it appeared In justice to Linnaeus, it should be 
observed that no one better understood than he the different parts assigned to the natural 
and the artificial methods, nor better marked the characters which distinguished them. — 
Author. 



276 MEMOIR OF PY RAMUS DE CANDOLLE. 

conceives the grand idea of the ages of the world, and produces his 
Epoques de la Nature; at length Georges Cuvier gives to the world his 
Re"herches sur les Ossemens Fossiles, and the question of the revolutions 
of the globe cannot long remain without its solution. 

The problem which the nineteenth century seems to have proposed 
to itself in the same province is the determination of the intimate 
laws of the organization of beings; and on this occasion the light has 
proceeded from a source from which we could scarcely have expected 
it. In 1790 a small work was published in Germany, entitled the 
Metamorphosis of Plants. The author, who seemed to unite the 
genius of the two neighboring nations in the flexibility of his powers 
and the extent of his inquiries, was the first to see in the transformation 
of one part into another all the secret mechanism of the development 
of the plant. Thus a first transformation changes the leaf into the 
calyx; a second, the calyx into the corolla; a third, the corolla into 
organs of -a still more delicate texture. All these organs are there- 
fore but the modifications of one organ, all the parts of the flower are 
but modifications of the leaf; transformation is the predominating 
principle, and the generalized expression of this striking fact con- 
stitutes the celebrated theory of Goethe. 

For the theory of De Candolle even a greater degree of elevation 
may be claimed. According to this, each class of beings is submitted 
to a general plan, and this general plan is always symmetrical. All 
organized beings, regarded in their intimate nature, are symmetrical. 
But this primitive symmetry, on which all reposes, and from which all 
emanates, what is it? how define it? how even determine it?* for 
symmetry, the primitive fact, is rarely the fact which subsists. The 
abortion, the adhesion, the degenerescence of the parts almost always 
alters or masks it; and to rediscover this S} T mmetry, which is the 
primitive fact, we must ascend through all the subsequent irregulari- 
ties, which are but secondary facts. And yet these views of De Can- 
dolle, bold and striking as they arc, may be already announced as, in 
more than one instance, a demonstrated truth. To show this, an 

3 Doubtless the idea of a primitive symmetry subsequently altered is still in many cases 
but a supposition, yet in many others it is the fact itself; in the Marronier d'lnde (horse- 
chesnut) the primitive symmetry is changed under the eyes of the observer; in a multitude 
of species the primitive symmetry, masked by the ordinary irregularities, disengages itself 
momentarily from those irregularities, and all at once reappears. De Candolle was the 
first who made what are termed monstrosities in the vegetable kingdom enter into a general 
+ heory; he defines them as " returns to symmetry." 

'' It is by the observation of certain monstrosities," he says, " that we have been enabled 
to detect the true nature of certain abortive organs, and consequently the true symmetry 
of the plants. Thus the observation of the Peloria has proved that a certain filament whLh 
is found on the inner base of the corolla of the antirrhinum linaria and some others, is an 
abortive stamen, since we have seen it change into a stamen " — Theor. Elem. de laBot., p. 98. 

The causes which produce anomalies, constant, and predisposed, are subject to laws so fixed 
and regular that De Candolle finds in those anomalies the very source of genera and species. 
" The arrangement of plants in natural orders supposes," he says, " that we may one day 
establish the characters of those orders on that which constitutes the ground of their sym- 
metry, and refer the varied forms of species aud genera to the action of causes which tend 
to alter the primitive symmetry, Thus each family of plants may be represented by a 
regular condition, sometimes visible to the eye, sometimes conceivable by the intellect; this 
is what I call its type: adhesions, abortions, degenerescences or multiplications, separate or 
combined together, modify this primitive type so as to give rise to the habitual characters 
of the objects which compose them." — Organogr. Vegetale, II, p. 240. — Author. 



MEMOIR OF PTRAMUS DE CANDOLLE. 277 

example or two will suffice. If we take the fruit of the common 
horse-chesnut, we shall find but three seeds at most, sometimes but a 
single one; but on recurring to the flower we shall see three cells, and 
two seeds in each cell, that is to say, six seeds. The fruit of the oak, 
the acorn, exhibits in all cases but one seed; and here we see the 
primitive type altered. But in the flower of the same tree the ovary 
has always six ovules, and here we have the primitive type re-dis- 
covered. 

The theory of De Candolle reveals a new world to the observer. In 
a group of plants whose corolla is polypetalous, should an ordinary 
naturalist find one whose corolla is monopetalous, he would probably 
rest satisfied with having verified the fact; but with the naturalist 
inspired by theory, inquiry commences where it terminates with the 
other. Such an one sees, in the species which he is comparing, the 
consolidated corolla occupy the place of the corolla with several petals; 
he finds the ribs (nervures) of the former correspond with the divisions 
of the latter; he reverts to an earlier stage of the flower, and seeking 
this consolidated corolla in the bud, he there finds it composed of 
several pieces; and thus the profound analogy of the group, masked by 
the soldering of the petals in one species, reappears in all its entirety. 

What De Candolle calls degenerescence constitutes, when taken in an 
inverse order, the metamorphosis of Goethe. The latter, following an 
ascending scale, sees the leaf metamorphosed into the calyx, the calyx 
into the corolla, the petals into stamens, the stamens into pistils, 
ovary, and fruit. De Candolle, pursuing the opposite course, sees 
fruit, ovary, and pistil degenerate into the stamen, the stamen into the 
petal, the corolla into the calyx, the divers parts of the calyx into 
leaves. Thus our double flowers are for the most part but the result 
of the transformation of the stamens into petals, as in that most beau- 
tiful of all transformations which changes the simple flower of the 
eglantine into the many-leaved rose of our gardens. While meta- 
morphosis, taken in the sense of Goethe, evolves, so to say, from the 
leaf all the parts of the flower, degenerescence, in the sense of De 
Candolle, brings all the parts of the flower back to the leaf. One of 
these facts proves the other; and the theory of Goethe, under a proper 
point of view, is but a part, though an admirable part, of the theory 
of De Candolle. 

It was long ago said, and with reason, that books also have their 
destiny. When Goethe, towards the close of the last century, gave 
his doctrine to the public, the poet damaged the botanist; the fame 
of the author of Werther and Faust caused the more modest merit of 
the author of the Metamorphosis of Plants to be overlooked. When 
De Candolle published his theory in 1813, he was far from Paris, in 
an obscure province, and his book succeeded but slowly, almost 
imperceptibly, in attracting general attention. It was, in fact, nearly 
twenty years later, and only when a dispute between two eminent 
rivals had carried the discussion into the halls of this Academy, that 
public opinion learned at last to comprehend the force and weight of 
the new ideas. 

Yet why not confess it ? Without doubt, the new spirit of the 



278 MEMOIR OF PYRAMUS DE CANDOLLE. 

sciences, whatever praise may be due to its boldness, has not always 
known how to restrain its flight or master its audacity. Even in De 
Candolle, whose judgment is so firm and logic so sound, there is more 
than one generalization which surprises, more than one consequence 
which it appears difficult to admit. We cannot well explain to our- 
selves how it is that the primitive symmetry, that mysterious key to 
the whole system, is so rarely the dominant fact, while the habitual 
fact is, on the contrary, almost always the anomaly.* But, on the 
other hand, who can fail to recognize the grandeur of so many daring 
and profound conceptions ? Who but must wonder at so many results 
obtained by new methods, so many truths which it was necessary to 
surprise, as it were, by yet unattempted methods of approach ? Who 
but must be struck at the number of ancient difficulties resolved, and, 
what is more remarkable, the number of new difficulties which as yet 
had no existence for science — which science had as yet not sufficient 
insight to suspect? 

The Theorie Elementaire de Botanique had appeared in 1813, quickly 
followed by the disastrous events of 1814, when France, after unpar- 
alleled successes, began to experience reverses equally without a 
parallel. During the Hundred Days, De Candolle was appointed rec- 
tor of the Academy of Montpellier. During the administrative anarchy 
which followed the second Restoration, the local authorities of Mont- 
pellier, without consulting the higher authorities, or rather, as re- 
garded De Candolle, in contrariety to the express orders of those 

'••As an elucidation of some portions of the text relating to vegetable morphology, the 
following passage from an able article in the Foreign Quarterly Review, April, 1833, may 
not be unacceptable, at least to the general reader : 

" A marked law of symmetry regulates the conditions under which the vegetable struc- 
ture is presented to us, in such plants as are closely allied in natural affinity, however much 
they may differ in certain individual peculiarities, those peculiarities always depending 
upon some modification in the mode of development in certain organs, or upon the partial 
or entire suppression of them in one and not in the other species Repeated examples have 
shown us that certain organs may sometimes be accidentally developed in plants in which 
they are generally absent, or else may disappear in some individuals of a species where they 
are usually present. It is by the study of these peculiar ' monstrosities' that we are enabled 
to ascertain the actual existence of particular organs in a latent or undeveloped state; and 
it has been by connecting the results of such inquiries that the whole theory of the natural 
classification of plants has of late years undergone a complete revolution The chief phe- 
nomena which regulate the conditions essential to the extension of this kind of knowledge 
are the abortion, degeneration, metamorphosis, and adhesion of certain parts. The account 
of these belongs more especially to the organographies! department of botany, and very 
little is known to the physiologist of the causes which produce them. The non-develop- 
ment or abortion of any latent organ in a plant seems to ari>e very frequently from its 
compression by some contiguous part, or else from an abstraction or its nutriment by 
another part which exerts a greater vital activity. As these effects depend upon the rela- 
tive position of such parts, the influencing cause begins to operate even from their nascent 
state, and long before their form is discernible by us. We have consequently no control 
over these causes, and their influence could never have been noticed by us if nature herself 
had not assisted in the discovery by producing those occasional aberrations from the ordi- 
nary state of plants which are known by the name of ' monstrosities.' That all the vari- 
ous parts of the fructification are modifications only of the leaf, is demonstrable by an 
appeal to numerous examples of monstrosities in which these parts may be seen to possess 
an intermediate character But we are still utterly ignorant of the nature of those pre- 
disposing causes which are capable of effecting such wonderful modifications in the form, 
color, consistency, and nervation of this single organj and, above all, such a complete dis- 
similarity between its various functions." — Note by Translator. 



MEMOIR OF PYRAMUS DE CANDOLLE. 279 

authorities, decreed that all the functionaries of the Hundred Days 
should be deprived, and De Candolle was deposed from the rectorate. 

What was the rectorate to De Candolle? He was still professor of 
the faculty of medicine and dean of the faculty of sciences; he was 
more endeared than ever to his pupils, to his colleagues, to the entire 
population; but the susceptibility of his character, always so lively, 
again prevailing, he threw up all his appointments, and left Mont- 
pell ier for Geneva. 

It is easy to imagine how he was received. The enlightened country 
of the Trembleys, the Bonnets, the Saussures, felt a pride in regain- 
ing him. There was no chair of natural history — one was created for 
him. There was no botanic garden — one was founded, and he was 
soon pursuing the scarcely interrupted course of his lessons and his 
labors. Nor were these long in reflecting a new lustre on Geneva. 

In 1827 appeared the Organographie Vegetate, a work which in 
substance, is but a reproduction of the Theorie Elementaire, but with 
an extraordinary extension and development of its doctrines. In 
1832 the Pliysiologie Vegetah made its appearance, and was imme- 
diately crowned by the Royal Society of London with the high prize 
which it had just instituted — a distinction due alike to the wide and 
elevated views, the superior method, and the lucid expositions of this 
admirable work. The year 1817 had seen the first volume of the 
Syxfeme Nature!, des Vegetaux; the second appeared in 1820. 

Let us pass now to another order of facts and ideas, in order to 
exhibit the merits of De Candolle under a new aspect. 

The ancients were acquainted with but a small number of plants; 
Theophrastus, the most learned of them in this matter, having reck- 
oned but five hundred. Many centuries after Theophrastus, Tourne- 
fort counted ten thousand, but without separating varieties from 
species. Linnaeus, in rendering one of the most important services 
to botany by separating species from varieties, reduced the number 
of species, properly so called, to seven thousand. 

When, about the year 1815, De Candolle conceived the design of 
drawing up a complete catalogue of the vegetable kingdom, the num- 
ber of known species scarcely amounted to more than twenty- five 
thousand. But no sooner had the general peace of 1815 opened the 
entire world to the researches of travellers, than every year witnessed 
the arrival of vast numbers of unknown plants from all quarters. De 
Candolle, in a paper published in 1817, already counted fifty-seven 
thousand species. "An immense host," he added, " where order 
the most methodical and natural can alone avoid confusion ! Marvel- 
lous fecundity, which might abate the courage of the botanist, if the 
first sentiment were not that of admiration for the cause of this count- 
less variety ! Would that botanists might draw from these calcula- 
tions the conclusion that much remains to be accomplished; that there 
is fame to be acquired by all ; and that consequently it is fitting neither 
to sleep, as if all were done, nor to be jealous of one another, as if 
nothing remained to do." 

Thus in two years, from 1815 to 1817, the number of known vege- 
tables had more than doubled. In 1810 this number, according to 



280 MEMOIR OF PYRAMUS DE CANDOLLE. 

the computation of De Candolle, had reached eighty thousand. A 
single family, that of the Composite, as described by him, embraces 
more than eight thousand species; thus presenting more species in 
that family alone than was contained in the entire vegetable kingdom 
of the times of Linnaeus. The work in which these eighty thousand 
known plants are brought together and definitively classed bore at 
first the title of Systema Naturale Regni Vegetabilis, but was recom- 
menced in 1824, under a more abridged form, with the title of Pro- 
dromus Systematis Naturalis Regni Vegetabilis. Yet in this abridged 
form it is not the less an immense work. Eighty thousand plants are 
there ranged in an admirable order — the order, that is to say, of na- 
ture itself; each with its characters, its relations, its entire descrip- 
tion, and that description of a precision of detail till then without 
example. This work was left unfinished by its author, though com- 
prising seven massive volumes of from seven to eight hundred pages 
each. The energy evinced by such vast labors reflects honor not on 
the individual alone, but on the race; it seems to enhance our idea of 
the forces of human nature. 

The Prodromus, as has been just said, remained incomplete. In 
the memoir which the author has left of his own life, he alludes to 
the impression produced upon him when he felt that strength would 
fail him for the completion of his undertaking. "That," he says, 
" is a great and solemn epoch in life when one acquires the convic- 
tion that he has wrongly calculated his plans, and that it is necessary 
to renounce that to which he attaches the highest price. It should 
be observed, however, that my own error of calculation has resulted 
not from idleness on my part, but from the sudden augmentation in 
the number of known plants." Who might not be dismayed when 
such a man as De Candolle is found defending himself from the impu- 
tation of idleness ? He has himself computed that he had established 
more than seven thousand new species, and nearly five hundred new 
genera; that is to say, nearly the fourteenth part of known species 
and the sixteenth part of admitted genera. 

As only the more important labors of De Candolle can be here no- 
ticed, a multitude of, memoirs on pure botany must be omitted; nor 
can more than an allusion be made to his important studies on the 
fertilization of downs, on the theory of the distribution of crops, on 
botanical geography, &c. It is by such of his works as had a direct 
influence on his age that we must be content to remember him — works 
which led to his adoption into all the learned societies of the world, 
and to the inscription of his name, in 1814, among those of the eight 
foreign associates of this Academy. 

Allusion has been made above to the memoir which he left of his 
own life; and if, in the study of his scientific works, we are struck 
with the pre-eminence of his intellect and the extent of his acquire- 
ments, here we are taught to appreciate the gracefulness, the kind- 
ness, and the simplicity of his character. "I have always loved," 
he says, "those persons who speak of themselves; they are generally 
persons of good disposition, and who have little to reproach them- 
selves with. And my pleasure," he continues, "in the perusal 



MEMOIR OF PYRAMU3 DE CANDOLLE. 281 

of personal memoirs has always been in proportion to the equality of 
position between the writers and myself. It is not only on account 
of the style that the Confessions of Rousseau have met with such 
success, but because he was neither king nor prince, and most readers 
could trace certain analogies between his position and their own. The 
memoirs of Marmontel, of Morellet, and, above all, of Gibbon, enable 
us to see how a mediocrity of condition causes us to overlook, if I may 
say so, the mediocrity of incidents and the slenderness of the narra- 
tive." 

De Candolle had a decided fondness for society, and, as Fontenelle 
said of Leibnitz, "often amused himself with the ladies, and did not 
count for lost the time which he gave to their conversation." Qualified 
to please by the characteristic brilliancy and freshness of his imagi- 
nation, he was excited in turn by the interest and attention of the 
sex to clothe the driest and most abstract subjects in those terms of 
animation and imagery which render the lesson which he improvised 
at Coppet on the "actual state of botany," for the benefit of such a 
society, one of the most remarkable resumes of his theory. Of the 
interest which he inspired the following may serve as an instance : 

Soon after his return to Geneva he was obliged to send back to 
Spain the beautiful designs of the Flore du Meodque. The author of 
this Flora, the learned Mocino, exiled from his country by the vio- 
lence of politics, had saved himself from the storm, bearing, like 
Camoens, his work in his hands. During his sojourn in France, as 
he despaired of publishing it, he had confided it to De Candolle, with 
these words: "It is through you that I shall become celebrated." 
Recalled to his country, now become more calm and just, he was not 
willing to return without this Flora of Mexico, one of the most valu- 
able services which the Spanish government has rendered to science. 
De Candolle was about to lose these precious and indispensable mate- 
rials for his great work. At this news Geneva bestirred itself. De 
Candolle had hardly thought of having more than a few of the rarest 
of the specimens copied; it was decided to copy for him the entire 
Flora; more than a hundred ladies took part in the task, which was 
completely executed in ten days. m 

Montesquieu has said "that he never knew a chagrin which an 
hour's reading had not dissipated." De Candolle might have said as 
much of society; he not only relaxed himself therein, but his genius 
acquired new animation and vigor. From the first of his residence 
at Paris he had had the good fortune to reunite himself with several 
friends, natives, like himself, of French Switzerland. The family for 
which J. J. Rousseau had written his Letters on Botany, was naturally 
the first to appreciate De Candolle. The head of that family, Ben- 
jamin Delassert, joined to the care of vast commercial enterprises an 
enthusiastic love for botany. This taste was the occasion of the 
closest friendship between him and De Candolle, and it might be 
here that the latter caught that ai dor for the public good which led 
him to devote himself to active public services. A member of the 
Philanthropic Society, of a special commission for the hospitals, oue 
of the founders of the Society for the Encouragement of National In- 



282 MEMOIR OF PYRAMUS DE CANDOLLE. 

dustry, &c, he carried into these functions the same fervor as into 
his studies; and this he called joining a practical life to his theorizing 
life. "I have no doubt," he says, in the memoirs before cited, "of 
the utility of the sciences in general for society, taken in the mass; 
but it has always seemed to me that I owed, as an individual, some 
more direct service to my cotemporaries." And this way of thinking 
seems to have formed the rule of his life. Elected, at Geneva, on 
three successive occasions, a member of the sovereign council, and, 
as one might say, an obligatory member of every commission of pub- 
lic utility, he found time and activity for all. 

The friends of his youth were those of his entire life. It would be 
difficult to say in which of the three cities where he had lived, Mont- 
pellier, Paris, and Geneva, he counted the most and truest friends. 
Two of them, Desfontaines and Cuvier, preceded him to the tomb; and 
the names of these two may stand as a eulogy for all the rest. For 
his tastes he manifested the same constancy as for his friendships. 
He began with making verses, and he continued to make them to the 
last. But having discovered, in good time, that poetry, and especially 
French poetry, demands great labor, and all the forces of his mind 
being otherwise employed, he made verses only for his friends, and 
never published any of them. 

His childhood had been delicate, but at the age of fifteen or sixteen 
his constitution underwent a happy revolution. From that time his 
body seemed formed, like his mind, for great labors. During more 
than forty years he preserved a sound health in spite of excessive 
fatigues. In 1835 he was seized with a violent malady, from which 
he recovered only to return to his occupations. Since then he has 
published, perhaps, the most difficult and incomparably the most ex- 
tensive part of his great work. His fine genius seemed restored to 
us entire, but his health was never re-established. He died Septem- 
ber 9, 1841. 

To the happiness due to success, and still more to assiduous employ- 
ment, he joined the yet more precious happiness of an honorable 
alliance, contracted in 1808, which constituted the charm of his life. 
He has left a son worthy of bearing his name and of continuing his 
renown. His last words were: " I die without disquietude; my son 
will finish my work." 

Such was the life of De Candolle, and such the nature of those 
great works which mark a new epoch in the progress of botany. 
Tournefort had constituted the science; Linnaeus had given it a lan- 
guage; the two Jussieus had founded its method; it remained to open 
to botany the study of the intimate laws of life; and this has been 
done by De Candolle. He is the only one, since Linmeus, who has 
embraced all the parts of this science with an equal genius. 

Considered as a professor he stands without a rival; botany had 
never before appeared with so much eclat. The perspicuity of his 
ideas, the soundness of his method, the grace of his elocution, all 
conspired to captivate and reward attention. When explaining facts, 
he seemed to communicate the art of judging them; when detailing 
observations, he appeared to lay open the art of observing; and, as 



MEMOIR OF PYRAMUS DE CANDOLLE. 283 

Fontenelle has said, "the art of observing or discovering is more 
precious than the greater part of what we discover." 

In his writings, it is true, De Candolle exhibits neither the charm- 
ing style of Tournefort nor the singularly original expression of Lin- 
naeus, but he has all the attributes of a writer which result from 
vigorous thought. He is both elevated and clear — qualities which 
are often erroneously supposed to bo incompatible, as if clearness 
were not inherent in elevation. Transcendentally clear, is an expres- 
sion of Descartes, the most luminous intellect of France. 

As an innovator, the quality which distinguishes him beyond all 
others is a perfect logic. Logic is the secret guide of genius when it 
dares successfully. 

Considered, finally, as a man, De Candolle must always be regarded 
as one who, to usefulness as a citizen, added those personal graces of 
character and gentleness of temperament which make us forget the 
man of science, and dispose us to pardon his superiority. 



284 sun's distance. 



ON THE MEANS WHICH WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR COR- 
RECTING THE MEASURE OF THE SUN'S DISTANCE IN 
THE NEXT TWENTY-FIVE YEARS. 

By the Astronomer Royal. From the Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society. 

At the meeting of the Society, on the 8th of April, the Astronomer 
Royal gave an oral statement "on the means which will be available 
for correcting the measure of the Sun's distance in the next twenty- 
five years ;" the substance of which is contained in the following 
abstract: 

The members of the Society will not be surprised at our looking so 
far in advance as twenty-five years. The special opportunity, which 
will then present itself, is the last which will occur for nearly a cen- 
tury and a half from the present time. Some years of preparation 
will be required to enable us to secure the full advantages which may 
then be within our reach. But, with all possible care, it will be found 
that the risk of total failure is not inconsiderable. The recognition 
of this danger naturally leads us to examine Avhether there will not be 
some earlier opportunity, of a different kind, for arriving at the same 
determination. And it will appear (in the judgment of the Astrono- 
mer Royal) that circumstances will be favorable, in the course of a 
few years, for obtaining a very good measure by the use of a different 
principle; less accurate, undoubtedly, in each of its individual appli- 
cations than the method upon which reliance has usually been placed, 
but admitting of almost indefinite repetition, demanding no co-opera- 
tion of distant observers, and requiring only that, in each instance, 
the observations which are to be compared be made with the same 
instrument and by the same observer (or with observers only so far 
changed that any personal equation would correct itself.) But even 
this method requires appliances, which cannot be constructed at the 
moment of observation; and it is necessary to study well, some time 
before the operations shall actually commence, what equipment, in- 
strumental and literary, is desirable for giving the best chance of suc- 
cess. It will appear that we are not beginning too soon to direct our 
attention to these matters in the present year. 

The measure of the Sun's distance has always been considered the 
noblest problem in astronomy. One reason for this estimation is, that 
it must be commenced as a new step in measures. It is easy to 
measure a base-line a few miles long upon this Earth, and easy to 
make a few geodetic surveys, and easy to infer from them the dimen- 
sions of the Earth with great accuracy; and, taking these dimensions 
as a base common to every subsequent measure, it is easy to measure 
the distance of the Moon with trifling uncertainty. But the measure 
of the Moon's distance in no degree aids in the measure of the Sun's 
distance, which must be undertaken as a totally independent opera- 
tion. A second reason is that, in whatever way we attack the prob- 
lem, it will require all our care and all our ingenuity, as well as the 
application of almost all our knowledge of the antecedent facts of as- 



SUN S DISTANCE. 



285 



tronomy, to give the smallest ehance of an accurate re- 
sult. A third reason is, that.upon this measure depends 
every measure in astronomy beyond the Moon; the dis- 
tance and dimensions of the Hun and every planet and 
satellite and the distances of those stars whose paral- 
laxes are approximately known. 

The received measure of the Sun's distance depends 
on the transits of Venus of 1761 and 1769, hut mainly 
on the latter. Very careful discussions of these will be 
found in the two books published by Encke, and in a 
memoir of great value by Don Joachim Ferrers, printed 
in our own memoirs. On examining these it will be found 
that, though there is very close accordance in the results 
obtained by the different investigators and from the 
different transits, yet all investigators have expressed 
their doubts upon those results. In the transit of 1761 
the result depended almost entirely upon an accurate 
knowledge of the differences of longitude of very dis- 
tant stations, which are undoubtedly subject to great 
uncertainty. In the transit of 1769 it happened that 
the result depended almost entirely upon the observa- 
tions made by Father Hell at Wardhoe; and to these 
great suspicion has attached, many astronomers having, 
without hesitation, designated them' as forgeries. It is 
evidently desirable to repeat the practical investigation 
when opportunity shall present itself. 



Figl. 



I 

It is desirable, for clearness, to begin with a reference *> 



to the simplest operation for measuring distance by 
parallax; as applied, for instance, to the Moon. In figure 
1, let A and B be two observatories on the same meri- 
dian, and at A let the star C be observed to touch the 
moon's limb, and at B let the star D be observed to 
touch the limb. (It will readily be understood that it 
is not essential that the observatories should be on the 
same meridian, if, as is in fact true, the Moon's appa- 
rent change of place can be exactly computed; nor is 
it necessary that the star touch the limb, if its angular 
distance can be very exactly measured.) After commu- 
nication of the observations, the observer at A can mea- 
sure the angle CAD. This angle differs from A M B 
by the angle A D B; but such is the distance of the 
stars that the angle A D B is in every case unmeasurably 
small; and A M B, therefore, is to be taken as equal to 
CAD. Now, the dimensions of the Earth being known, 
the length and direction of the line A B will be known, 
and the directions of AM, B M, are known; and there- 
fore the length of A M, B M, or of any other line drawn 
from M to any other part of the Earth is easily found. 
A small error in the angle at M — that is, in the angle 
C A D — will produce a great error in the result for A M or 
B M. With this caution the problem is completely solved. 



286 SUN'S DISTANCE. 

The question naturally rises, cannot the same method be applied 
to the Sun? Practically it cannot, for the following reasons: First, 
if errors of equal amount were committed in determining the inclina- 
tion of the two lines AM, BM, for the Sun and for the Moon, their 
effects on the results would be enormously unequal. Thus, if the 
error were 2", it would produce an error of one hundred miles in the 
Moon's distance; but it would produce an error of sixteen millions of 
miles in the Sun's distance. Secondly, no stars can be seen for obser- 
vation in apparent contact with the Sun's limb. Thirdly, if for want 
of observable stars we rely upon the instrumental measure of the 
angular elevation of the Sun's limb, we introduce the risk of instru- 
mental errors, and (far worse) of errors in the computation of atmo- 
spheric refraction at the most unfavorable of all times of observation; 
and these are sufficient completely to vitiate the method. 

In consequence of these difficulties, astronomers have always 
sought to determine the distance of the Sun indirectly by determining 
the distance of a planet, either by referring the planet's apparent 
place to stars or by referring it to the Sun. In order to make this 
indirect process available, it is necessary to rely upon the antecedent 
determination of the proportion of the distances of the different plan- 
ets from the Sun. 

It is a historical fact that, in the time of Copernicus and Keppler, 
when astronomers did not know whether the Sun's distance from 
the Earth was nearer to ten millions or to a hundred millions of miles, 
Fig. 2. the proportion of the distances of the different 

Proportions of Orbits planets was known almost as exactly as at present. 
of Planets The first and rudest means of obtaining these pro- 

portions may be understood from figure 2. Com- 
mence with the assumption that the planets move 
in circular orbits. At the Earth E the apparent 
angle S E V, between the Sun and Venus, reaches, 
but does not overpass, a certain value. At this 
time, then, the angle E V S is a right angle. 
Therefore, in the triangle E V S, two angles 
are known, (namely, at E and at V, ) and therefore 
the proportions of the three sides can be found, 
and two of these sides are the distances of 
the Earth and Venus from the Sun. Again, conceive that from the 
Earth E' the planet Mars is seen in the direction E' M'. By an ac- 
quaintance with the movements of 3Iars, derived from the observa- 
tions of many preceding years, it is known that his position, as seen 
from the Sun, is in the direction S M'. The angular difference between 
these two directions is the angle S M' E'. Also we know the angle 
S E' M', the apparent angular distance of Mars from the Sun. Hence 
(as in the instance of Venus) we know two angles of the triangle 
S E' M', and therefore we know the proportion of its three sides, two 
of which are the distances of the Earth and Mars from the Sun. 
These, at first, are very rude determinations; but they aid materially 




SUN S DISTANCE. 



287 






in introducing more exact ones. It is found by degrees that some 
alteration must be made in the inferred mean distances of the planets 
from the Sun; it is found by degrees that this will not suffice, and 
that the supposition of different degrees of ellipticity and in different 
directions must be introduced; and at length, by infinite repetitions 
of the process of trial and error, of which scarcely a trace remains, 
except in the results, proportions of very considerable accuracy are 
obtained. In all this there is not the smallest reference to any of the 
absolute distances. 

In figure 3 is shown the first practical infer- Fi „_ 3 

ence from this knowledge of proportion of dis- 
til aces, as applied to a transit of Venus. Let 
Venus V be so exactly between the Sun and the 
Earth that she can be seen upon the face of the 
Sun. An observer at A sees her upon the point 
S, and an observer at B sees her upon the point 
S'. Suppose the relation between the points S 
and S' to be such as to admit of record (the 
mode of making this record will be considered 
shortly,) and suppose, by means of that record, 
the angle S A S' is measured. The angle which 
w r e desire to obtain, in order to measure the 
Sun's distance is A S' B. Now, the proportion 
of our measured angle S AS' to the desired an- ^ 
gle A S' B, is sensibly the same as the propor- ^ 
tion of S' V to A V, or as 72 : 28, very nearly. | 
Thus it appears that we measure a large angle ^ 
in order to infer from it a small one : and this is 
the circumstance which is the most favorable of ^ 
all for obtaining an exact result. (If we tried J 
to use a transit of Mercury in the same way, it <, 
would be found that the measured angle at A is ® 
to the required angle at S' in the proportion of ^ 
4 to 6 nearly, that is, that we measure a small ^ 
angle in order to infer from it a larger; hence 5 
the transits of Mercury are inapplicable to the n 
measure of the Sun's distance.) It is further to 
be considered that, in this reference of the ap- 
parent place of Venus to the disk of the Sun, no 
use is made of stars, and nothing depends on 
the difficulty of computing refraction, inasmuch 
as Venus and the Sun are, at the time of the ob- 
servation, subject to the same refraction. 

This method then appears likely to be excel 
lent, provided that we possess a practical pro- 



cess for measuring the angle S A S'. 
be our next consideration. 



The mode of finding this will 



288 



SUN S DISTANCE. 



firms 



Fig. 4. 
Disk rt i ersed 



-'.'''•" 




- ^iTicrress 



In figure 4 is represented by a black 
line the path which Venus will appear 
to describe across the Sun's disk in the 
transit of 1882, (reversed in regard of 
right and left, for the convenience of 
subsequent investigations) as seen from 
the centre of the Earth. For the 
present let us lay aside the considera- 
tion of the Earth's rotation. An ob- 
server in the northern portion of the 
Earth will see Venus describe, not the 
black line, but the fainter line below 
the black line and parallel to it. An 
observer in the southern portion of the Earth will see Venus describe 
the fainter line above the black line. The path seen by the southern 
observer is longer than that seen by the northern observer, and there- 
fore occupies a longer time. Consequently the mere observation of 
the duration of the transit at these two stations would give informa- 
tion on the lengths of the two chords, and therefore would give 
means of computing the amount of separation of the two chords: and 
this apparent separation corresponds to the angle S AS' in figure 3. 
We have therefore all the means of computing the angle A S' B, and 
of inferring from it the Sun's distance; although, as may be imagined, 
the intervening calculations are sufficiently complicated. 

But this is on the supposition that the Earth has no motion of rota- 
tion. Let us introduce the consideration of rotation, and see how it 
modifies the result. 

Let us place ourselves over a globe with its south pole elevated to 
represent the illuminated portion of the Earth on the day of transit. 
By bringing the meridian of 135° E. to the vertical, we shall see the 
portion of the Earth turned toward the Sun at the ingress of Venus 
on the Sun's disk; by bringing the meridian of 75° E. to the vertical, 
we see that portion turned toward the Sun at the egress. The re- 
versed form given to the solar disk in the cut (fig. 4) enables us to 
refer lines on the globe and on the diagram to corresponding geomet- 
rical directions, when we imagine ourselves to be looking through 
the diagram upon the globe.* 

Now, fixing our attention on a northern station, in the United States 
of America for instance, it will be seen that the translation of this 
place by the movement of rotation carries it to meet the motion of 
Venus. Consequently it tends to shorten the duration of the transit. 
But by virtue of the northerly position of that station, the duration 
of transit is already shortened. Consequently, by combination of 
these two effects, the duration of the transit at the northern station 
is very much shortened. 

Now, can we select a southern station such that the same rotation 



- On account of the unavoidable omission of the diagrams representing the illuminated 
portions of the Earth at the times of ingress and of egress of the two transits, a few pas- 
sages have been omitted, and equivalent ones introduced, using the globe as a means of il- 
lustration. — J. H. 



sun's distance. 289 

of the Earth shall tend to lengthen the duration of transit as seen 
there ? The transit at southern stations is already the longer by 
virtue of their southern position; and if to this we could superadd a 
further lengthening by virtue of the Earth's rotation, we should have 
a very long duration of transit there which we might hope to com- 
pare with the very short duration at the north station, with the pros- 
pect of obtaining a combination which would be most advantageous 
for obtaining the measure sought. 
We can select such a station. 

It is essential to remark, that the transit will take place in the 
month of December, and that at that time the Earth's south pole will 
be turned towards the Sun, and therefore, that those regions of the 
earth which are included between the south pole and the southern 
limit of illumination will be carried by rotation in a direction oppo- 
site to the direction of movement of all the northern parts of the 
earth. If we fix our attention on a part of the Antarctic continent, 
between Sabrina Land and Repulse bay, it will be seen that it is car- 
ried in the same direction as Venus, that the apparent movement of 
Venus is therefore made slower, and that the duration of transit is 
thereby lengthened. And as it is lengthened already by the southern 
position of the station, it will by the combination of these causes be 
very much lengthened. Comparing this with the observed duration 
in the United States, where it is very much shortened, we shall have 
a large difference, depending entirely upon the proportion which the 
Earth's radius bears to the distance of the Sun, and most favorably 
available for the determination of that proportion. The difference of 
the times of duration would probably be not less than twenty-five 
minutes. 

Thus the circumstances of the transit of 1882 are peculiarly favor- 
able (subject only to certain practical considerations, to be noticed 
hereafter.) for the determination of the proportion of the Earth's 
radius to the Sun's distance, (usually called the Sun's horizontal par- 
allax, or more strictly the sine of the Sun's horizontal parallax.) A 
discussion of the transit of 1874 will show what are the conditions 
on which this favorable state depends. 

In figure 5, where Venus is seen Fig. 5. 

crossing the northern part of the Sun's reversed. 

disk, it will be perceived that the 
northern station has (independently of 

the Earth's rotation) the longer dura- / ^^ 7er 

tion of transit and the southern has 
the shorter. Now when we introduce 
the consideration of rotation — for 
which purpose we regard the globe 
with the meridians of 30° W. and 
120° W., brought to the vertical to 
represent the illuminated portions at 
the ingress and egress, respectively — 
no selection of stations on the principle adopted for 1882 will tend to 
exaggerate this difference. If both stations are on the north side of 
19 




290 sun's distance. 

the south pole, the movement of rotation shortens both durations in 
no very unequal degrees. If we take a station between the south 
pole and the southern limit of illumination, the motion of rotation 
tends to lengthen the duration, which by virtue of southernly position 
is shorter, and thereby the inequality is diminished. Thus it appears 
that the transit of 1874 cannot be used with the same advantage as 
that of 1882 for determining the Sun's horizontal parallax. 

An examination of the characteristics of these transits, and also of 
those which occur in the month of June, (as 1761 and 1769,) when 
the north pole of the Earth is turned towards the Sun, suggests the 
following remarks: The transits favorable for the determination of the 
Sun's horizontal parallax are those in which the part of the Sun's disk 
crossed by Venus has the same name (north or south) as the pole of 
the Earth which is turned towards the Sun. Now, in general (but not 
always) the transits of Venus will occur in pairs, (as 1761-1760, 1874- 
1882,) with an interval in each case of eight years. This interval 
depends on the circumstances that the transits can only be visible 
when the conjunction of the Earth and Venus takes place very near to 
one of the nodes of the orbit of Venus on that of the Earth; and that 
in eight years Venus has revolved almost exactly thirteen times, so 
that a conjunction at any one degree of heliocentric longitude is fol- 
lowed by a conjunction very near to the same degree after an interval 
of eight years. But in consequence of the proportion of 8 : 13 being 
not quite exact, and because in eight years Venus revolves a little 
more than thirteen times, the successive conjunctions take place in 
2^ days less than 8 Julian years. Therefore, at the second conjunc- 
tion Venus is less advanced in respect of the node than at the first. 
At the December conjunctions Venus is near the ascending node; at 
the June conjunctions she is near the descending node. In the former, 
therefore, she will be at the second transit more southerly, and in the 
latter more northerly, than at the first transit. These indications 
correspond with those of favorable transits. Therefore, in all cases 
the second transit of each pair is the more favorable for determining 
the Sun's horizontal parallax. The exceptional case is when Venus 
crosses the middle of the Sun's disk, as then the latitude of Venus is 
too great at both the next preceding and the next following 8 -year 
interval to give a visible transit. 

In the explanation, up to this point, we have gone on the supposi- 
tion that the observations of transit to be employed are those of 
duration of transit. And this method possesses the very important 
advantage that it is entirely independent of the assumed longitude of 
the place of observation. But there is another method, namely, that 
of observing the absolute time (as referred to Greenwich time) of 
ingress only, or of egress only, at different stations on 'the Earth. 
The best way of considering this is to conceive that figure 3 is not in 
the plane of a meridian, but in the plane passing through the observ- 
ing station and through the Earth's centre. Then it is plain that the 
apparent disturbance of the point S, from the point at which Venus 
would be seen from the Earth's centre, is in the plane which passes 
through the observing station and through the Earth's centre. Now, 



SUNS DISTANCE. 201 

if this piano is parallel to the Sun's limb at the point of ingress, the 
disturbance of the apparent place of Venus will merely cause its place 
to slide along the Sun's limb, and will not affect the time of ingress. 
If the plane is perpendicular to the Sun's limb at the point of ingress 
the disturbance will tend to throw Venus upon or off the Sun's disk 
in the greatest possible degree, and therefore to accelerate or retard 
the ingress in the greatest possible degree. But the observed time 
of ingress must necessarily be expressed, in the first instance, in local 
time; this can be converted into Greenwich time only by application 
of the assumed longitude of the place, and, therefore, when avo com- 
pare the Greenwich times of ingress as observed at two stations, the 
result is necessarily affected by the possible errors of two longitudes. 
The same remarks apply to the egress. 

We are now in a state to consider the applicability of the two 
methods to the transits of Venus in 1S74 and 18S2. The calculations 
of the places of the Earth and Venus, upon which the diagrams of 
figure 4 and figure 5 are founded, have been made by Mr. Breen, 
assistant to the Royal Observatory, and may be accepted as accurate. 
At the commencement of this evening's meeting an independent set 
of calculations was handed to the Astronomer Royal by Mr. Hind, 
superintendent of the Nautical Almanac, which do not sensibly differ 
from Mr. Breen' s. In the exhibitions of the illuminated side of the 
Earth, the nearest integral hour of Greenwich mean time is taken, 
because (as will be mentioned) there is yet a little uncertainty on the 
exact time. 

First. On the application of the method of difference of duration 
of transit to the transit of 1874. 

It has already been remarked that in this transit there is no possi- 
bility of combining the effect of Earth's rotation with the effect of 
difference of latitude of stations, so as to exaggerate the difference of 
durations of transit depending on difference of latitude alone. And 
if we consider the effect of difference of latitude only, we find that 
circumstances are not very favorable. The most northerly stations 
are to be found in Siberia, Tartary, and Thibet, (which will scarcely 
be visited by astronomers in December,) on the coasts of China, and 
in North British India. The most southerly stations will be Kergu- 
elen's island, Van Dieman's Land, and New Zealand. But the 
observable difference of duration will probably not be half of that 
in 1882. 

Second. On the application of the method of the difference of abso- 
lute times to the transit of 1874. 

For the ingress, favorable positions will be found at Owhvhee 
(where the displacement tends to throw Venus upon the Sun's disk, 
or to accelerate the ingress) and at Bourbon, Mauritius, and Kergue- 
len's island, (where the displacement tends to throw Venus from the 
Sun's limb, or to retard the ingress.) For the egress, Sicily, Italy,. 
and portions of Europe Avest of the Black Sea, are so situate as to 
throw Venus upon the Sun's disk, or to retard the egress; and New 
Zealand, New Caledonia, Van Dieman's Land, and Eastern Australia, 
are well situated for accelerating the egress. But it is doubtful. 



292 sun's distance. 

whether the longitudes of any of the stations named, except those in 
Europe, are yet known with sufficient accuracy. 

Third. On the application of the method of difference of duration 
of transits to the transit of 1882. 

It has been already pointed out that there are two tracts, each 
sufficient to contain a number of observing stations, which are par- 
ticularly well adapted to these observations. And it is specially to 
be remarked that the command of a number of stations, sufficiently 
near together to see the astronomical phenomenon in nearly the same 
way, but sufficiently separated to take the chances of different states 
of the sky, is very important. On occasion of the eclipse of 1842 the 
astronomers at Turin saw nothing, in consequence of the cloudy state 
of their sky, while the Astronomer Royal on the Superga, not five miles 
distant in a straight line, saw all the phenomena of the eclipse. 
Bearing this caution in mind, we Avill consider the circumstances of 
the two tracts in question. 

The northern tract includes the whole of the United States of North 
America. The observatories are numerous, and they possess an ad- 
vantage which even yet is little known in Europe, namely, that from 
the extent of galvanic telegraph, the habit of using it in the United 
States, the public spirit of the nation and of the telegraph companies, 
which would assuredly induce them to devote that wonderful auxil- 
iary to the exclusive use of astronomy on an occasion so important, 
and the absence of political suspicions, all the observing-stations 
would for an observation like this be connected by the galvanic tele- 
graph. (The Astronomer Royal adverts to the political suspicions, 
not without some bitterness, for he has been prevented by them from 
using a European telegraph for a single hour to determine the longi- 
tude of an important continental point.) The peculiar advantage of 
connecting, at least of comparing, all the observers' clocks, would be 
of this kind. Suppose that there were ten observing-stations, and 
that, in consequence of the changeable weather, the ingress only was 
observed at five of these stations, and the egress only at the other 
five*: If the clocks of the observatories were not connected or com- 
pared, these observations would be totally lost. But if they are con- 
nected, then every observation is referred to the absolute time of one 
clock, say the Washington clock; and from a knowledge of the geo- 
graphical position, a correction of the absolute time may be computed, 
so as to deduce, from every observation of absolute time of ingress at 
any station, what would have been the absolute time of ingress had 
it been observed at Washington, and from every observation of the 
absolute time of egress at any station, what would have been the ab- 
solute time of egress had it been observed at Washington; and thus 
we shall have five observations of ingress and five observations of 
egress, all as if they had been observed at Washington and noted by 
the Washington clock. Humanly speaking, therefore, we may say 
that the probabilities for the accurate and efficient observation of 
these phenomena in the United States are vastly superior to any that 
could have been reckoned on in any former time, or to any that could 
now be reckoned on in any other region. 

The southern tract is a part of the Antarctic land discovered by 



293 

Lieutenant Wilkes, of the United States navy, included between Sa- 
brina Land and Repulse bay, and occupying an extent of about 400 
miles. The Astronomer Royal is informed by General Sabine that 
the 6th of December is rather early in the season for a visit to this 
land, but probably not too early, more especially as firm ice will be 
quite as good for these observations as dry land. It must, however, 
be borne in mind that it is indispensable to secure observations both 
of ingress and of egress in this tract, without which all the advan- 
tages of the North American observations will be useless. For this 
purpose it appears absolutely necessary to establish a chain of ob- 
serving posts, and to furnish some means of comparing the clocks. 
We are in possession now of two powers, unknown in former times, 
applicable to this purpose. One is the galvanic telegraph, which 
possibly (but not very probably) might be laid down in a temporary 
way. The other is the use of steamers, by which the observers 
would be distributed to their several posts, and which would be con- 
stantly employed for some days before and some days after the transit 
in running up and down the line of coast with a number of chronome- 
ters, and comparing them with the stationary chronometers at each 
observing post. It would be extremely desirable that the country 
should be reconnoitered some years before the transit, in order to 
ascertain at a sufficiently early time the practicability of these or some 
equivalent plans, without which the risk of entire failure would be 
great. 

Fourth. On the application of the method of the differences of ab- 
solute times to the transit of 1882. 

For the ingress, the islands of Bourbon, Mauritius, and Kerguelen's 
island, are very favorably situated for accelerating the ingress; and 
the United States of North America for retarding it. For the egress: 
Van Dieman's Land, Eastern Australia, New Zealand, and New Cale- 
donia, will have the egress much retarded; while the United States, 
the West India islands, and the coast of South America as far as the 
Rio Plata, will have it accelerated. 

In the transits of 1761 and 1769 great difficulty was found to attach 
to the observations of the internal contact of the limb of Venus with 
the Sun's limb, from the phenomenon which in late years has attracted 
attention under the name of Baily's Beads. The Astronomer Royal 
expressed his opinion as entirely coinciding with that of Professor 
Powell, that this phenomenon is simply due to irradiation, as arising 
partly from dillraction, partly from fault of the telescope, and partly 
from the nervous excitement of the eye. From his own experience 
in two total eclipses of the Sun, in which he had taken great pains to 
see the phenomenon, and had (as he believes simply because he took 
care to see the Sun very distinctly) been unable to see the slightest 
trace of it, he had not the smallest doubt that when proper care is 
taken for distinct vision, the phenomenon will not be seen at all. He 
referred specially to his delightful view of the very beautiful phenome- 
non of the disappearance of the last portion of the Sun in the valleys be- 
tween the lunar mountains, in the eclipse of 1851, which with less 
distinct vision would probably have created strings and beads. This 



294 sun's distance. 

distinctness of vision he ascribed principally to the use of a graduated 
dark glass, constructed under his direction by Mr. Simms. It consists 
of a long wedge of red glass and a long wedge of green glass, their 
edges turned the same way, combined with an equivalent wedge of 
colorless glass, its edge turned the opposite way. Nobody would 
suppose without trial how fastidious the eye is as to the proper intensity 
of shade, and how distinctly, when intent on clear vision, it rejects a 
shade in the most trifling degree lighter or darker. He thought it 
highly important that such shades should be used for observing the 
transits of Venus. It is desirable also that the color left by the shade- 
glass should be agreeable to the observer's eye. 

Still there is one caution which must not be put out of sight. The 
selection of places depends entirely upon the portion of the Earth 
which is illuminated at the times of ingress and egress ; and if the 
tables of the movements of Venus are erroneous in 1882 to the amount 
of an hour's motion, the illuminated face of the Earth will be altered 
to the amount of two or three hours' rotation of the Earth, and the 
selections of stations may be totally changed. It is therefore most 
important that the tables of Venus should be thoroughly examined, 
and where necessary rectified. A great mass of observations of Venus 
exist, already reduced so far as to require only the very last step of 
substitution of errors of planetary elements. The Astronomer Royal 
referred particularly to the Greenwich Planetary Reductions from 
1750 to 1830, to the reduction of certain Cambridge observations, to 
the reduction (in the annual Greenwich volume) of the Greenwich 
observations down to the present time, and to the discussion of some 
of the Greenwich observations by Mr. Main and Mr. Glaisher. And 
he took the opportunity of expressing his opinion that fifty pounds 
spent on calculations with an object like this would confer much 
greater benefit on astronomy than a thousand pounds employed in the 
foundation and equipment of an observatory. 

On viewing the expense and the risk of the determinations of the 
Sun's distance by transits of Venus, as well as the distance of time, 
which must necessarily place them beyond the knowledge of many 
observers of the present day, it appears natural to consider whether 
other methods cannot be used, less stringent as to the moment of ob- 
servation, requiring less co-operation of observations, and occurring 
at an earlier time. Such are the direct determinations of the parallaxes 
of Venus and of Mars, when near to the Earth, by simultaneous 
observations at northern and southern stations, as in figure 1, or by 
successive observations at the same observatory when it is brought to 
different positions by the Earth's rotation, as in figure 6. 

Venus cannot be compared with stars on the meridian. She may 
be compared with stars in extra-meridional observations before sun- 
rise or after sunset, but she is then uncomfortably bright, and rarely 
well defined; and she has only one illuminated limb admitting of ob- 
servation, and therefore in the comparison of observations made at 
different stations there is great risk of error from difference in the 
estimation of her semi-diameter. Moreover, she does not remain long 
in the position nearest the Earth, and the nearer she is the more con- 



sun's distance. 295 

traded are the daily hours of observation. It seems unlikely that 
trustworthy results will be deduced from the observations of Venus. 

Figure 6. 
^A_____^^ ^ ParaMoM of Mars 

li: "OS 




The circumstances of Mars in opposition to the Sun (figure 6) are 
much more favorable. Mars may then be compared with stars 
through the whole night; he has two observable limbs, both admitting 
of good observation; he remains much longer in proximity to the 
Earth, and the nearer he is the more extended are the hours of ob- 
servation. 

Here, however, a circumstance is to be considered which has not 
previously called for attention. The orbit of Mars is much more 
eccentric than those of Venus and the Earth. At some oppositions, 
therefore, he will be so far from the Earth that little advantage will 
be derived from attempting to observe his parallax. (It is understood 
that such observations were made in the United States expedition of 
a few years past, which, from the great distance of Mars, must have 
been nearly useless.) At other oppositions he is almost as near as 
Venus is about conjunction. The following table expresses roughly 
the distance of Mars from the Earth, at some of the nearest and some 
of the most distant oppositions. The unit of measure is the Earth's 
mean distance from the Sun: 

1860 about July 21 0.38 

1862 about October 1 0.39 

1809 about February 13 O.GS 

1871 about March 22 0. 01 

1877 about September 3 0.37 

The years 1800, 1862, and 1877 are, therefore, favorable for the 
determination of parallax. But they require the following special 
considerations: 

When, as in figure 1, the method of comparison of observations 
made at a northern observatory and a southern observatory ^s em- 
ployed, the most favorable position of the planet is that of verticality 
to the point midway between the two observatories. The north lati- 
tude of the northern observatories (Greenwich, Berlin, Pulkowa) is 
greater than the south latitude of the southern observatories, (Cape 
of Good Hope, St. Jago.) Hence, copferis paribus, a north declination 
of Mars will be preferable to a south declination. In this respect the 
opposition of 1862 is preferable to that of 1860. 

But there is another method of making observations for parallax 
not applicable to Venus, but applicable to Mars, namely, by observing 
the displacement of Mars in right ascension, when he is far east of 
the meridian and far west of the meridian, as seen at a single observa- 
tory. Thus, in figure 6, conceive the pole of the Earth to be turned 
towards the e} r e, and conceive the Earth and Mars to be stationary 
in space, the Earth, however, rotating round its axis. By the diurnal 
rotation, an observatory is carried from the position A to A'; and, at 



296 SUNS DISTANCE. 

one of these times, Mars is seen in contact with one star, and at 
the other time with another star. These observations give the means, 
as in figure 1, of determining the distance of Mars. And though, in 
fact, both the Earth and Mars are moving, yet the effects of those 
motions can be so exactly calculated as to give to the determination 
the same accuracy as if both Avere at rest. 

In order to compare the value of this method with that of observa- 
tions on the meridian at two observatories, we must estimate the 
length of the base line A B in figure 1, or A A' in figure 6. The 
greatest meridional base line, from Pulkowa to the Cape of Good 
Hope, is = Earth's radius X 2 sine 47° nearly. The measure of the 
greatest base line A A' depends on the latitude of the observatory. 
At Greenwich it is = Earth's radius X 2 sine 38° 30'; at the Cape 
of Good Hope and at St. Jago (Chili) it is about = Earth's radius X 
2 sine 57°: at Madras it is nearly = Earth's radius X 2 sine 77°. 
Thus it appears that at each of the three last-mentioned observatories 
the base line which can be obtained is considerably greater than 
the best which can be obtained by meridional combination of two 
observatories. At Madras the angle to be measured would be about 
44". To this is to be added that the method is attended with no ex- 
pense whatever; that the observations which are compared are made 
with the same telescope and by the same observer, or the same series 
of observers; that there is none of the tediousness, the wearying cor- 
respondence, or the doubt, which are inseparable from observations 
requiring distant co-operation; and that the observer is supported by 
the feeling that his own unassisted observations will give a perfect sys- 
tem of means for deciding one of the most important questions in 
astronomy. The Astronomer Royal expressed his opinion that this 
method is the best of all. 

In order to use the process to the greatest advantage, Mars ought 
to be visible at six hours' distance from the meridian on each side, 
and therefore his declination ought to have the same name as the lati- 
tude of the observatory. Thus 1860 will be a favorable year for the 
Cape of Good Hope and St. Jago; 18G2 will be favorable for North 
Amerfcan and European observatories. It is scarcely necessary to 
discriminate between them for Madras, where both years are good; 
1862, however, is preferable to 1860. 

The first equipment for this observation, on the necessity for which 
special stress must be laid, is an equatorial, firm in right ascension. 
Many modern equatorials are deficient in this important quality. It 
would be well in using them to apply a temporary mechanism for fixing 
the instrument in right ascension, such as its construction may permit. 
The next, which will be found advantageous, though not strictly ne- 
cessary, is the apparatus for the American or chronographic method 
of transits, by which the number of observations may be greatly in- 
creased, and something will be gained in the accuracy of each. These, 
with the ordinary clocks and chronometers, <fec, of an observatory, 
are all that are required. 

The principal rules for the observer would be: To make the obser- 
vations, as near as practicable, to the six-hour intervals from the 



SUN S DISTANCE. 



297 



meridian on both sides, and to repeat the observations in continued 
sequence morning and evening, morning and evening. If different 
observers are employed, to take care that each observer is charged 
as often with morning as with evening observations. To determine 
the difference between the right ascension of Mars and the right 
ascensions of two stars, one having greater N. P. D. and the other 
smaller N. P. D. than Mars. To use the same stars in at least two 
observations of different names, morning and evening, and in as many- 
more consecutive observations as can be conveniently arranged. 
When it becomes necessary to change the selection of stars, to ob- 
serve both the old pair and the new pair in one morning or evening 
observation. In all cases to observe, by such alternation as is most 
agreeable to the observer, both limbs of Mars, (the preceding and 
the following.) The observations might with advantage commence a 
fortnight before opposition and terminate a fortnight after it. 

In the nature of external preparation, applying generally to all 
observatories, the principal requisite is a chart of the apparent path 
of Mars in considerable detail, giving the place of the planet for 
every hour or every few hours, and giving the places of all the stars, 
little and great, in its neighborhood. The observer in possession of 
this will be able to select stars of such a magnitude as he judges most 
agreeable to his eye, and at such intervals as will be convenient for 
his system of wires; and to attend rigorously to the condition of 
always comparing the planet with two stars, one of greater and one 
of less N. P. D. It might be proper that the color of the stars should 
be noted, in order that, to avoid possible inequalities of refraction, 
stars of the same color as Mars (if there are such) may be selected. 
It would not, perhaps, be too much to expect such charts for 18G0 
and 1862 from the superintendents of our national ephemerides. 

On reviewing the whole subject, the Astronomer Royal presses on 
the attention of astronomers the importance of observing Mars in 
1860 and 1862; and for this purpose the necessity of speedily making 
the preparations, instrumental and literary, which he has described, 
especially that of the charts of stars with the path of Mars. .At the 
same time he urges that the future astronomical public will not be 
satisfied unless all practical use is made of the transits of Venus of 
1874 and 1882; and that for these a thorough discussion of the ele- 
ments of the orbit of Venus, the determination of some distant longi- 
tudes, and a reconnoissance of Wilkes's land must be effected within 
a few years. 



REPORTS ON THE STATE OF KNOWLEDGE OF RADIANT 
HEAT, MADE TO THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE 
ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE, AT THE MEETINGS IN 1832, 
1840, AND 1854. 

By the Reverend Badbn Powell, M. A., F. R. S , Savilian Professor of Geometry in the 

University of Oxford. iS 



REPORT FOR 1832. 



In attempting to give a condensed account of the present state of 
our knowledge of the science of Radiant Heat, it appears to me that 
I shall be best consulting the design of such a report by offering, in 
as brief a form as possible, a sketch of what has been formerly done 
in this department ; and thence proceeding to a more detailed sur- 
vey of what is now doing. And we shall proceed with greater clear- 
ness if we distinguish the several different departments into which 
the subject divides itself, agreeably to certain known distinctions in 
the properties and species of heat acting under peculiar circumstances. 
All these have been too commonly confounded together under the 
general and vague name of Radiant Heat, whence not unfrequently 
the most erroneous views have resulted. By distributing our sub- 
ject, however, under the few well-marked divisions which the scanty 
results of observation as yet supply, we shall at once secure perspi- 
cuity in our views, and be treating the subject in a way most accord- 
ant with the inductive process : which, it must be distinctly avowed, 
has not yet enabled us to advance to any such comprehensive knowl- 
edge of the facts as can warrant us in generalizing them, or in 
ascribing to a common principle the radiation of heat from a mass of 
hot water, from aflame, and from the sun. 

We shall take each of these principal divisions separately, and 
under each shall consider what is known in reference to those prop- 
erties to which experiment has been directed. 

Division I. 

Radiation of heat from hot bodies below the temperature of lumin- 
osity. 

" We regret to state that since the date of the present Report of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, we have received intelligence of the death of the gifted author of these admirable 
articles. In his departure from this life science has been called to mourn a successful and 
industrious investigator, an able defender, and an accomplished expounder of her princi- 
ples. As a scholar, a writer, and a christian gentleman, we can but seldom hope to look 
upon his like again. The republication and wide diffusion of these reports, in a collected 
form, will, we trust, be considered of importance in the advance of science, and we hope 
to be able to publish a continuation of them by some worthy successor of Professor Powell. 

J. H. 



RADIANT HEAT. 299 

a.) Radiation (or communication of heat to sensible distances) is distinct 
from its conveyance by conduction through the air; since, 

1.) It takes place perpendicularly downwards: 
2.) Only in elastic media. 

The relative cooling in different media is seen in the following- ex- 
periments. — (Rumford' s Essays, ii, 425; Torricelli ; Murray's Chem., 
i, 328.) 

Thermometer cooled from 212° to 32° Fahrenheit : 

In Vacuo... in 10 min. 5 sec. 

Air 7 3 

Water.. 1 5 

Mercury.. 36 

Dulong and Petit, in their elaborate researches on the cooling of 
bodies, have investigated the law of cooling in the most perfect 
vacuum they could form : but they admit that there was always a 
minute portion of air present. The radiation, therefore, of heat in 
an absolute vacuum is by no means conclusively established. — (See 
Annals of Phil., vol. xiii, p. 241.) 

3.) Professor Leslie ascertained that the effect from a mass of 
given size is nearly proportional to the angle which it subtends at 
the thermometer ; and that the heat suffers little or no diminution in 
its passage through the air. 

The radiation is most copious in the direction perpendicular to a 
plane surface of the hot mass, and is proportional to the sine of its 
inclination to the direction of the thermometer. — (Inquiry into the 
Nature and Propagation of Heat, p. 51, &c.) 

For the same position the effect is proportional to the excess of 
temperature of the hot body above that of the air. 

4.) Pictet made an attempt to estimate the velocity with which 
heat radiates, by means of concave reflectors at sixty -nine feet dis- 
tance. The effect on the focal thermometer was absolutely instanta- 
neous. — (Essais de Phys.) 

b.) Reflection of simple heat from non-luminous hot bodies. 

1.) The general principles are established by Professor Leslie. — 
(Inquiry, pp. 14, 51.) 

2.) He shows that the quantity of heat reflected is proportional to 
the sine of incidence on a plane surface. 

3.) It is affected by the polish of the surface. — (Leslie, Inquiry, pp. 
81, 20, 98, 10G.) 

4.) The most exact experiments are those made with conjugate con- 
cave reflectors ; a ball of iron below luminosity in one focus, a ther- 
mometer in the other : a glass of boiling water may be substituted 
for the iron ball. In either case a great effect is produced in the 
opposite focus, though little out of it. — (Saussurc. Voyages, t. iv, p. 
120; Sir W. Herschel, Phil. Trans., 1803, p. 305.) 



300 RADIANT HEAT. 

Professor Leslie made extensive use of reflectors, but observed 
that there was a very considerable degree of aberration in the focus from 
an exact position ; considerably nearer to the reflector than the true 
focus, the effect continued undiminished. — (Inquiry, p. 64.) 

5.) Alleged reflection of cold. 

An account of the earliest experiments will be found in the Memoirs of 
the Florentine Academy, (Waller's Transl., p. 103; also Gaertner, 1781.') 

Pictet, with conjugate reflectors, found the thermometer sink when 
ice was in the opposite focus. — (Essais de Phys., p. 82.) 

Count Rumford employed a tube, a frustrum of a cone, open at 
both ends ; placing ice at the small end, the thermometer at the 
large end sunk very little. The ice being at the small end, the ther- 
mometer at the large end fell considerably. Rays reflected by the 
inside of the tube from the body at the large end would be concen- 
trated on that at the other. 

6.) M. Prevost (Essai sur la Calorique Rayonnant, Geneva, 1809, 
and Recherches sur la Chaleur, p. 15) proposes a theory of radiation, 
that heat is a discrete fluid, every particle of which moves in a straight 
line, and such motions are constantly taking place in all directions, 
whether there be more or less heat present. Hence all bodies, 
whether of a higher or lower temperature, are supposed to be con- 
tinually radiating heat ; and this going on mutually tends to bring 
them all to an equilibrium of temperature. 

On this theory explanations are given of the apparent radiation of 
cold. 

The thermometer in the conjugate focus, when nothing is in the 
other, remains stationary, because the rays reflected from all the sur- 
rounding space so as to cross at the focus of the opposite mirror, and 
be reflected in a parallel state to the other, and thence on to the ther- 
mometer in the focus, are exactly equivalent to those which the ther- 
mometer radiates. But when a mass of ice is placed in the opposite 
focus, it intercepts and absorbs a portion of the rays which would 
otherwise have fallen on the first mirror, and so have reached the 
thermometer, which in consequence radiates more than it receives, 
and therefore sinks. 

A similar explanation applies to Count Rumford' s experiment. — 
(See Thomson On Heat, &c, p. 163.) 

In the Quarterly Journal of Science (June, 1830, p. 378) some ob- 
servations are given on this subject, and an explanation offered, which, 
though very ingenious, appears somewhat complicated. 

It may not be improper to observe, that if the above be a correct 
view of Prevost' s theory, it can hardly be conceived as otherwise 
than partially hypothetical. The idea, viz: that bodies even of a 
lower temperature than those about them actually give out a small 
degree of heat, is extremely difficult to conceive ; and it does not 
appear absolutely essential to the explanation of the facts. 

Without reference to any theory, I venture to propose the follow- 
ing as the simple experimental law : 

All bodies of unequal temperature tend to become of equal tempe- 



RADIANT HEAT. 301 

ratnre ; if in contact — by conduction ; if at sensible distances — by 
radiation, of the excess of heat ; and (in the latter case) whether the 
radiation reach the cooler body- directly or by an intervening reflection. 

This appears sufficient to include the facts of Pictet's and Rum- 
ford's experiments. 

7.) Alleged polarization of simple heat by reflection. 

Mens. J. E. Berard (Memoire sur les Proprietes des differentes 
Especes de Rayons qu'on peut separer au moyen du Prisme de la 
Lumiere solaire, Mem. de la Societe d' Arcueil, Paris, 1817, tome iii; 
see also Annals of Phil, 0. S., ii, 1G4; Biot, Trade de Phys., iv,) 
tried experiments for the polarization of heat. His apparatus was 
the same as Mains' s, having the axis of revolution vertical ; but no 
precautions of screening, &c, are mentioned. He used an air ther- 
mometer containing a bubble of alcohol in the tube, in the focus of a 
reflector, moving round along with the second glass: a ball of copper 
about two inches in diameter was in the focus of a reflector placed 
in the position for polarization of light. (His experiments on heat 
with light will be referred to in another place.) He tried the effect 
with the metal heated below luminosity, and assured himself that 
there was a difference in the degree of heat reflected in the two rec- 
tangular azimuths of the second glass. 

I have attempted to repeat these experiments with the same kind 
of apparatus, carefully screened and arranged with the tube horizon- 
tal ; but could produce no diminution in the proper position. — (Edinb. 
Journal of Science, N. S., vol. x, p. 207.) 

I also tried the experiment with a delicate mercurial thermometer, 
comparing this case with others, (referred to in their proper place,) 
in which light accompanied the heat ; but in the former could detect 
no difference in a long series of repetitions. 

The total effect is in all cases extremely small, and the disturbing 
causes considerable, especially the heating of the glasses, &c. The 
whole experiment was very unsatisfactory. — (Edinb. Journal of Sci- 
ence, N. S., vol. vi, p. 297.) 

c.) Effect of lite nature of surfaces on the emission of simple heat. 

1.) Count Rumford (Nicholson's Journal, ix, 60) employed two simi- 
lar vessels of hot water of the same temperature — one naked, the 
other coated with linen, glue, black or white paint, or smoked with 
a candle ; the results were, 

Naked vessel cooled 10 degrees in 55 minutes. 
Coated " * 10 " 36| 

Mr. Murray supposes a relation between radiating and conducting 
powers. — (System of Chem., i, 326,334. See Phil. Trans., 1804, p. 
90, &c.) 

2.) The most complete investigation of this and other parts of the 
subject has been made by Professor Leslie in his Inquiry into the Na- 
ture and Propagation of Heed, 1804. 

He first used hot water in a globe of tin, in which the inserted 
thermometer fell a given quantity, with the tin bright, in 156 minutes; 
with the tin coated with lampblack, in 81 minutes. 



302 RADIANT HEAT. 

The difference was greatest in still air, and diminished with the 
violence of its motion : 

Time of cooling. 



Wind. Bright. Blackened. 

Gentle 44 minutes 35 minutes. 

Strong 23 " 20£ " 

Violent,. 9£ " 9 

Hence the effect is different from conduction b) r air. 

3.) The most exact series of experiments was that in which he used 
conjugate reflectors, a differential thermometer having one bulb in the 
focus, and a cubical tin canister of hot water, (the temperature of 
which was seen by the projecting stem of a thermometer,) and each 
side of which could be coated with a different substance, and pre- 
sented successively towards the reflector. 

The following results collected together afford the best view of the 
general nature of the conclusions relative to the influence of the 
state of the surface on the radiation of heat. — (Inquiry, pp. 81, 90, 
110.)' 

Lampblack 100* 

Water, (estimated).. 100 

Writing paper 98* 

Rosin • • • • 96 

Sealingwax. 95 

Crown glass • • • • 90 

China ink . • • • • 88* 

Ice .•••• 85 

Minium . • » 80* 

Isinglass 80 

Plumbago 75 

Thick film of oil 59 

Film of jelly 54t 

Thinner film of oil 5 If 

Tarnished lead. 45 

Film of jelly, (^ of former quantity) 38 

Tin scratched with sandpaper 22 

Mercury 20 

Clean lead 19 

Polished iron ^- 15 

Polished tin, gold, silver, copper 12 

Thin lamina of gold, silver, or copper leaf on glass 12^: 

* From comparing the results marked, it appears that the effect 
follows no relation to color. Softness probably tends to increase radia- 
tion. 

t Thickness of film increased beyond a certain limit does not in- 
crease the radiation. 

X The tenuity is not sufficient to produce any diminution of effect, 
which probably would take place if thinner films could be applied. 



RADIANT HEAT. 303 

4.) The effect of the surface on radiation is beautifully exemplified 
in the laws which regulate the formation of dew as developed by Dr. 
Wells.— (Essay on Dew, 1814. See also Dufay, Mem., Paris, 1736, 
p. 352; and Harvey on Dew, Quarterly Journ. of Science, No. 33; 
Edinb. Journ. of Science, i, 161.) 

5.) Dr. Ritchie (Edinb. Phil. Journ., xxiii, 15) explains his theory 
of the mode in which the radiating' power of surfaces is increased by 
making them rough, or furrowing, &c. He contends that it is not 
owing to the increase of surface, but to the quantity of heat reflected 
by the sides of the furrows. 

He adopts the hypothesis of material caloric, and that its mole- 
cules are mutually repulsive. 

The effect of surface is an essential distinction between radiation 
and conduction by air ; the latter being shown by Dulong and Petit 
to be absolutely independent of the nature of the surface. — (Annals 
of Phil, xiii, 322.) 

d.) Effect of surface on the absorption of heat from non-luminous hot bodies. 

1.) De Saussnre and Pictet, with the apparatus before described, 
found that the thermometer rose in two minutes: 

Plain 4|° Fahrenheit. 

Blackened 3| 

2.) By the same apparatus before described, Professor Leslie found 
that on coating the bulb of the thermometer with the different sub- 
stances, the absorptive power was very nearly in the same proportion 
as the radiative; and by making the same modifications in the surface 
of the reflector, he found that reflective power is inversely as the ra- 
diative or absorptive. — (Inquiry, pp. 19, 81, 98.) He also gives a very 
precise set of experiments on the effect of coatings of jelly of increasing 
thicknesses. — (p. 100.) 

3.) Dr. Ritchie has devised a very elegant mode of showing that the 
absorptive power of surfaces is precisely proportional to their radiating 
power. — (Royal Inst. Journ., vol. v., p. 305.) 

The instrument consists of a large differential thermometer, whose 
bulbs are chambers of considerable size, presenting large and equal 
plane surfaces on the sides which are towards each other; of these 
one is plain or polished, the other coated. Midway between them is 
placed a canister having equal plane surfaces facing each of the former 
respectively, and one polished, the other coated with the same pig- 
ment as before; this canister is filled with hot water, and is capable 
of turning on a vertical axis; thus the coated surface of the canister 
can be turned to the coated bulb or to the polished; in the former 
case a great effect is produced on the coated bulb, and a very small 
effect on the plain; in the second case the better radiating surface is 
directed to the worse absorptive one, and the worse radiating to the 
more absorptive, and the liquid in the tube remains perfectly stationary; 
the exact equality, therefore, of the absorptive and radiating powers 
is established. The whole is on a large scale, and can be exhibited 
to a class. 



304 RADIANT HEAT. 

4.) The most recent and curious researches on this part of the sub- 
ject (and extending, as we shall see, to other parts also) are those of 
MM. Nobili and Melloni. — (Annates de Chimie, Oct., 1831; Recherches 
sur plusieurs Phenomenes Calorifiques, &c.) 

The authors commence by describing their ther mo -multiplier, by the 
aid of which their researches were carried on. This consists in a 
thermo-electric combination, susceptible of excitation from the feeblest 
conceivable application of heat, and connected with a delicate gal- 
vanometer, which gives a measure of the effect produced, and conse- 
quently of the heat. 

The pile is in a case coated with the smoke of a flame when used 

for radiant heat, but left naked when for heat of temperature, on 

account (as they observe) of the bad conducting quality of this coating. 

They applied this instrument to the examination of the different 

reflecting, absorbing, and radiating powers of surfaces. 

They confirmed in general the results of Leslie and others already 
mentioned. They found that polish augments the reflecting power 
much less than usually supposed. Non-metallic substances possess 
scarcely any reflecting power, whatever be the state of their surfaces. 
They examined the absorptive power of different substances, taking 
lamina? of equal thickness and similarly fixed, &c; these having been 
heated for a few minutes in the rays of the sun, were placed in pairs 
on apertures at the opposite sides of the thermo-multiplier, and in 
this way the order of their absorptive powers was considered to be 
obtained by the degree of heat they respectively radiated; and the 
results were, that the effect increased by blackness of color and with 
roughness of surfaces. Also the following surfaces were in this order: 
silk, wool, cotton, flax, hemp, (all white,) which is the inverse of their 
conducting powers. In like manner, with metals of nearly the same 
color and polish, the order was — copper, silver, gold, steel, iron, tin, 
lead, exactly in the inverse order of the conducting powers; the same 
with several woods and minerals. 

On these experiments I must remark, that the heat acquired from 
the sun's rays is so obviously dependent on color that it is astonishing 
that any experimenter should adopt this as affording any ground for 
making conclusions respecting the comparative absorbing or radiating 
powers for heat in general, The later results, wdien the surfaces were 
all of the same color, are extremely important. Supposing they all 
acquired the same degree of solar heat which was thus converted into 
heat of temperature, and then radiated from the surfaces as simple 
heat, the real conclusion established is, that the kadiating poivers of 
surfaces for simple heat are in the inverse order of their conducting 
jonvers. 

e.) Effect of screens on heat from non-luminous hot bodies. 

1. Pictet found a difference in the interceptive effect, according 
as the plain or the silvered side of a glass screen was towards the 
source of heat. 



RADIANT HEAT. 305 

% Ratio of effects on 

Towards hot body. thermometer. 

Glass 5 

Amalgam 35 

Amalgam, blackened 92 

Amalgam removed, — glass blackened 180 

(Fssai, &c, p. 72.) 

2.) He tried to refract simple heat without effect. 

Sir W. Herschel tried with a lens, and supposed it effected: this 
has been refuted by Sir D. Brewster. — {Vide infra; Phil. Trans. 1800, 
Part II, No. 15, Exp. 19, 20.) 

3.) Professor Leslie's experiments on screens are perhaps the most 
valuable portion of his inquiry. 

He found the effect of a screen increase rapidly with its distance 
from the source, (p. 28,) and less so with its thickness, (p. 38.) 

Different substances appear to have a different interceptive power: 
but this upon examination appears always to be dependent on their 
conducting power, and the absorptive nature of their surface jointly. 

The most decisive experiment on this point was that made with 
two panes of glass, each having one side coated with tin foil; accord- 
ing as the plain or coated sides were placed in the contact, the com- 
pound screen had a greater or less apparent interceptive power; that 
is, a greater or a less power of absorbing and subsequently radiating 
the heat. Again, either might be used separately, or the two at an 
interval. — (p. 35.) 

4.) Prevost concluded that a certain portion of heat is directly trans- 
mitted through transparent screens, by employing moveable screens 
which continually presented a fresh surface, so that it was supposed 
all communication of heat and conveyance by way of secondary radi- 
ation would be prevented. 

But it must be considered that it is impossible to prevent entirely 
any portion of a screen in the most rapid motion from acquiring heat:, 
no such experiments therefore can be strictly conclusive. 

Dr. Ritchie tried experiments with the same view, by means of a 
film of liquid adhering to threads stretched across a frame continually 
renewed. — (Phil. Trans. 1827, Part II, p. 141.) But to this a, similar 
objection must apply. 

5.) The results of Professor Leslie do not apply to temperatures 
above those of boiling water. 

This extension of the inquiry formed the subject »f the researches 
of De la Roche. The complete account of these is given in its 
proper place; at present we have to consider them only as far as 
relates to bodies below luminosity. He tried the effect of a screen 
of glass, first transparent, and then with one surface blackened, on 
the heat radiating from mercury at 180° centig. and at 346 when it 
was boiling. — (Biot, Traite de Phys., iv, 640.) 

The results were as follows: 

20 



306 RADIANT HEAT. 

Rise of focal thermometer (centig.) in l m . 

No screen. Transparent Blackened 

screen. screen. 

Mercury at 180° 3°.94 0°.22 0°.07 

Mercury at 346 16 .33 1 .36 .17 

He hence infers a partial transmission of heat at these high tem- 
peratures; and the more so, viewing these results in connexion with 
the rest of the subsequent series (considered in another place.) 

These are the only ones of his experiments referring really to 
simple radiant heat; and the inference of an actual transmission in the 
way of direct radiation is open to several objections. 

6.) The blackened screen causes a greater diminution of heat than 
the transparent, and it was therefore inferred that a portion of heat 
radiates freely through the transparent screen, and is stopped by the 
opaque one; but there are several circumstances which show that this 
is not a necessary conclusion. 

The coating was towards the source of heat, and rendered this 
screen more absorptive of heat where exposed to it, that is, at its 
central part, and a better radiator towards the edges without the 
area of the incident rays; so that it radiated its heat most copiously 
on the side away from the thermometer. With the plain screen there 
was no such tendency to radiate more on one side than on the other, 
and hence the greater effect on the thermometer. 

This explanation I suggested in the Annals of Philosojiliy, xlv, 181. 

Some observations bearing upon this subject occur in Sir David 
Brewster's elaborate paper on "New Properties of Heat," &c, in 
the Phil. Trans. 1816, Part I. His 40th proposition is directed to 
prove that radiant heat is not susceptible of refraction, and is incapa- 
ble of permeating glass like the luminous rays. The truth of this is 
demonstratively shown from the curious properties examined in the 
previous parts of the paper, and shown to be communicated by heat 
to glass; and by the progress of which, the passage of the heat 
through the glass may be as clearly traced as if the heat itself were 
visible. 

He applies this conclusion to the experiment of Sir Wm. Herschel, 
in which the concentration of simple heat by a lens appears to be 
proved. The thermometer must have received the heat radiated by 
the lens itself ; and from the circumstance that the edges will cool 
first, the most copious radiation of heat will be in the direction of the 
axis. 

In connexion with the same point, he also examines the conclusions 
of MM. De la Roche and Prevost, and observes: "The ingenious ex- 
periments of M. Prevost, of Geneva, and the more recent ones of M. 
De la Roche, have been considered as establishing the permeability 
of glass to radiant heat. M. Prevost employed moveable screens of 
glass, and renewed them continually, in order that the result he ob- 
tained might not be ascribed to the heating of the screen: but such is 
the rapidity with which heat is propagated through a thin plate of 
glass, that it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to observe the 



RADIANT HEAT. 307 

state of the thermometer before it has been Effected by the secondary 
radiation from the screen. 

"The method employed by M. De la Roche, of observing the differ- 
ence of effect when a blackened glass screen and a transparent one 
were made successively to intercept the radiant heat, is liable to an 
obvious error. The radiant heat would find a quicker passage through 
the transparent screen, and therefore the difference of effect was not 
due to the transmitted heat, but to the heat radiating from the 
anterior surface. The truth contained in M. De la Roche's fifth 
proposition is almost a demonstration of the fallacy of all those that 
precede it. He found that a thick plate of glass, though as much or 
more permeable to light than a thin glass of worse quality, allowed a, 
much smaller quantity of radiant heat to pass. If he had employed 
very thick plates of the purest flint glass, or thick masses of fluid that 
have the power of transmitting light copiously, he would have found 
that not a single particle of heat was capable of passing directly 
through transparent media." 

7.) I have further attempted a direct experimental examination of. 
the question in a paper inserted in the Phil. Trans., 1826, Part III, 
p. 372. 

The substance of my observation is as follows : 

De la Roche found that if radiant heat be intercepted by two trans- 
parent screens, the additional diminution of effect occasioned by the 
second is proportionally much less than that produced by the first ; 
and the same conclusion is extended Fo any number of screens. This 
was explained by the supposition that the heat in its passage through 
the first glass undergoes a certain modification, in some respects 
analogous to polarization, by which it is enabled to pass with very 
little diminution through the second and subsequent glasses. 

In those cases where the source of heat is luminous, such phenomena 
would receive an obvious explanation on the principle investigated in 
my other paper. — Vide infra. . 

But if the same effect is still observable below the point of lumi- 
nosity, we must have recourse to some other principle of explanation 
That deduced by De la Roche appears at least plausible; and though 
it should be considered proved that, in general, heat is incapable of 
being radiated directly through glass, it perhaps would not necessarily 
follow that it might not, under peculiar circumstances, have a power 
of doing so communicated to it. Though, on the other hand, it must be 
confessed that in the present case some difficulty would attend such a 
supposition. 

It certainly would not be easy to conceive such a property to be 
communicated to the heat by the mere act of being conducted through 
the first glass. Again, a new property of heat is thus introduced, 
which, it must be conceded, is not absolutely and exclusively 
established. 

It appeared to me, therefore, a point of some interest to examine, in 
the case of non-luminous heat, in the first place, the accuracy of the 
fact, and secondly, if verified, whether fhere might not be circum- 
stances observable in the conditions of the experiment by which it 



308 KADIANT IIEAT. 

might be accounted for, without the necessity of supposing any pe- 
culiar property of heat, or a direct transmission even through the 
second glass. 

My apparatus, in following up this inquiry, was similar to that 
described by M. De la Roche, and consisted of two tin reflectors; in 
one focus the bulb of a thermometer coated with Indian ink, and in 
the other an iron ball two inches diameter, which was heated to red- 
ness, and then cooled till it ceased to be visibly red in the dark, at 
which point it was placed on its stand, and a thick screen withdrawn. 
The indications were observed, first, for the direct effect ; secondly, 
with one glass screen interposed; and thirdly, with two. The tem- 
perature of the screens was observed by means of a small thermometer 
attached to the face of each away from the ball, towards its central 
part; the bulb being kept in contact by the spring of a wire with 
which the thermometer was fastened. 

The results are: First. That the additional diminution occasioned by 
the second screen is proportionally much smaller than that occasioned 
by the first. Thus De la Roche's conclusion is shown to hold good, 
not only in the case of luminous, but also of non-luminous hot bodies, 
which is perhaps of consequence, as I believe doubt has been enter- 
trined respecting it; and it may be remarked that here the greater 
thickness of the second screen would be against such a result. Secondly. 
If the progress of the indications of the direct effect bo followed, it 
appears that the rise in the fii^st 30 seconds is the greatest, and that 
those in the subsequent periods gradually diminish. Thirdly. With 
one screen the effect in the first period is equal to or even less than 
those in the subsequent ones; and. if we follow the temperature of the 
first screen, it appears to sustain a rapid increase at first, and after- 
wards continues gradually to rise till some time after the focal ther- 
mometer has become stationary. The progress of the focal thermom- 
eter exactly accords with what must be the heating effect of the 
screen as a source, viz: rising slowly at first as the screen acquires 
heat sufficient to supply it, and remaining stationary so long as the 
still increasing temperature of the screen could balance its loss of 
heat. Fourthly. With two screens there is no rise till the second half- 
minute, when it is not greater than in the next half, after which the 
thermometer becomes stationary, and this trifling effect exactly ac- 
cords with what the temperature of the second screen should produce. 
It does not begin till the second screen has acquired a higher 
temperature, and it is stationary while the temperature of the screen 
continues to increase, and the temperature of the second screen is 
such as is clearly accounted for from the heating effect of the first. It 
does not begin to rise till after that of the first has risen; it continues 
stationary some time after the first has begun to cool, as the first 
screen did when the iron was cooling. But as in this case the source 
of heat was cooling during the whole time of the experiment, whilst 
in the other it was heating during the first part of the time, it follows 
that a greater proportional temperature should be communicated to 
the second screen by the first, than to the first by the iron ball. 

Other circumstances will partially co-operate in producing this 



RADIANT IIEAT. 309 

effect, as the greater proximity of the second screen to the ther- 
mometer; also more heat might be lost in communicating an equable 
temperature to the first screen from its central and more heated part; 
whilst the heat would be thus more equally radiated to allparts of the 
second without such loss. 

Thus it appears that the fact stated by M. De la Roche is fully sub- 
stantiated, while, on the other hand, it is satisfactorily accounted for 
without supposing any new property of heat or any direct radiation 
through glass. 

In some unpublished experiments of my own, I found, upon observing 
the temperature acquired by a screen exposed to iron below luminosity, 
first plain, and then coated with Indian ink towards the source of 
heat, the thermometer being in contact at the central part on the 
outside, that it rose rather more on the 2^0 in than on the coated screen. 

8.) MM. Nobili and Melloni, in the memoir before quoted, applied 
their instrument to estimate the effects of transparent screens. Over 
the thermo-multiplier were placed successively transparent screens of 
glass, sulphate of lime, mica, and of water, oil, alcohol, and nitric acid 
(enclosed between plates of glass?) and also of ice. 

The source of heat was a ball of iron, heated to a point below lumi- 
nosity, suspended, or rather passed rapidly, at a certain distance 
above the screen. 

The index indicated an instantaneous effect, greater or less in all 
cases except those of water and ice, in which none was produced, even 
when the iron was kept a longer time over the instrument, or even 
heated to redness, and the screen reduced in thickness. 

9.) A set of experiments presenting some important results with 
respect to the absorbing and radiating properties of surfaces, as well 
as the action of screens in air and in vacuo, are given by Mr. W. R. 
Fox, in the Phil. Mag. and Annals, New Series, No. G5, p. 245. A 
brief statement of the results is as follows : 

A cylindrical tin vessel of hot oil with its surface polished, and 
another similar, painted black, had their times of cooling a certain 
number of degrees observed under a receiver first highly exhausted, 
and then full of air; the cylinders being respectively first exposed, 
and secondly enclosed in one and sometimes more tin cases with in- 
tervals; the outer and inner surfaces being one or both polished or 
blaekened. From all the different combinations of these results, of 
which he states in detail, I collect the following general inferences: 

I. In vacuo: (1) the 'polished vessel had its cooling always accelerated 
by the cases, and in this order — 

Case. 
1 , 

Inside. Outside. 

Most accelerated • • bright black. 

black black. 

bright (3 cases) black. 

bright (3 cases) bright. 

bright (1 case) bright. 
Least accelerated black bright. 







10 RADIANT HEAT. 



(2.) The coated vessel had its cooling in all cases retarded ; and in 

this order — 

Insiile. Outside. 

Least retarded black black. 

bright black. 

black bright. 

Most retarded bright bright. 

II. In air : both vessels in all instances had their cooling retarded 
by the cases. 

Mr. Fox also found the boiling of water in a bright vessel be/ore a 
fire accelerated nearly doubly by a case blackened externally. 

He considers the results inexplicable, except on the hypothesis of 
an attraction between matter and heat. 

Mr. Fox has also communicated to me in manuscript an account of 
some further experiments of the same kind on iron raised to a red 
heat, but which, nevertheless, are of such a nature as properly to 
come under this division of the subject. 

The precise temperature to which the iron was raised in each 
experiment was estimated by the remarkable cessation of its action 
on a magnetic needle at a certain stage of- incandescence. 

The iron was enclosed in tin cases of two different sizes, within 
w T hich the air could be exhausted, the inside being either plain or 
coated with lamp-black. 

The whole was immersed in Ivater, and the temperature communi- 
cated to the water in a given time noted. After observation the iron 
was plunged in water, and the residual heat thus communicated to 
the water noted. 

The general results were, that in the smaller case the cooling was 
more rapid than in the larger; and in either the internal coating accel- 
erated., the cooling; in no case was any material difference produced 
by exhausting the air. 

10.) Dr. Ritchie (Ed/in. Phil. Journal, xxii, p. 281,) has shown that 
when a hot non-luminous body is placed between the two bulbs of a 
differential thermometer, blown out very large and thin, and both 
remaining plain, the liquid is stationary; the outside half of one being 
coated with black, the liquid sinks from that side. 

Hence he infers that the coating has here stopped the heat, which 
otherwise radiates freely through the very thin glass. 

He varied the experiment by using portions of glass blown thin as 
screens over an aperture: when blackened in a flame or coated with 
silver leaf they intercepted heat; when transparent, not. That this 
was not from increase of thickness was shown by using three thick- 
nesses transparent, then removing the middle one, and blackening 
the inner surface of the others. 

He explains the subject by the theory of material caloric and mu- 
tual repulsion of its particles. 

The same author in another paper (Ann. of Phil., 2d series, xii, 
123.) gives a variation of the experiment: the hot body is placed 
between two large and very thin bulbs; one of the hemispheres of 



RADIANT HEAT. 311 

one bulb, formed by a plane passing through the centres of both, is 
coated with China ink, as are also two of the alternate quarters of the 
other, formed by a plane cutting the former at right angles. 

A greater effect is produced on this second bulb. 

This is an argument against the effect being due to greater radia- 
tion from the outer surface of the bulb. 

Dr. Ritchie has also maintained the same conclusions in his paper 
before referred to, {Phil. Trans., 1S27, Part II, p. 142,) by varying 
the distance of the screen, which he found to produce no sensible dif- 
ference in the effect, though with screens of moderate thickness it 
diminishes rapidly with the distance, according to Leslie's experi- 
ments. 

Division II. 

TERRESTRIAL LUMINOUS HOT BODIES. 

a.) Nature of radiation. 

The earliest observers noticed differences between this case and 
that of heat from non-luminous bodies. 

The heat from flame, &c, at least in part, passes through air, &c, 
without heating it. 

Scheele observed this with a fire, and that currents of air did not 
change the direction of the rays. — (Treatise on Air and Fire, c&c.) 

Cavallo (Phil. Trans., 1780,) found a blackened thermometer affect- 
ed by the light of a lamp. 

Leslie (Inquiry, p. 448,) found a fire affect his photometer; also 
candles, &c, (p. 447,) — a distinction pointed out between this and 
the solar rays, (p. 83, 54.) 

The light from putrescent substances does not appear to be accom- 
panied with any appreciable degree of heat, according to Dr. Hulme. 
(Thomson's Ghem , i, 414, 4th edit.) But the effect, if any, must be 
so small that we cannot positively assert there is none. 

The same remark may apply to many other very faint lights. 

b.) Reflection of heat. 

1.) Mariotte collected the heat of a fire in the focus of a reflector. 
— (Mem. Acad, of Sciences, 1G82.) 

Lambert, with burning charcoal in the focus of conjugate reflectors, 
found a combustible body kindled in the other focus. — (Lambert, 
Pyrometrie ; Saussure, Voyage, iv, 119.) 

Scheele (On Air and Fire, p. 67, 71,) observes that a glass mirror, 
though it reflects the light of a fire, does not reflect the heat, (it is 
not stated by what means the heat was estimated,) but the mirror 
becomes heated. A polished metallic mirror reflected both the light 
and heat, and did not become much heated itself; if blackened it was 
soon hot. 

Pictet extended the experiments with conjugate reflectors to this 
case, by placing a candle in one focus. The thermometer rose nearly 
10° in six minutes. — (Essais de Phys., p. G3.) 



312 RADIANT HEAT. 

Sir W. Herschel (Phil Trans., 1800, p. 297,) placed a candle at 
twenty-nine inches from a concave "metallic reflector; the focal ther- 
mometer in five minutes rose 3|°; another out of the focus was not 
affected. 

The same took place with a fire, and with red hot steel. 

2.) Polarization by reflection. 

Berard (Memoir before cited) tried the polarization of heat from 
luminous sources, and found a considerable diminution in the position 
when the light ceases to be reflected. 

There was of course here no distinction drawn between the heat 
accompanying the light and the simple heat. Of the latter nothing- 
is proved; the former may be merely an effect of the absorption of light, 
and if so, the term polarization is applied to the heat without any 
proof. 

I repeated these experiments, and, after all precautions, thought 
there was a small perceptible effect, (when the simple heat was cut 
off by a glass screen,) which was diminished in the position of non- 
reflection for the light; when the whole heat was admitted no propor- 
tional diminution took place. — [Edinb. Journ. of Science, vi, 303.) 

c.) Effect of surfaces on emission of heat. 

Nothing ascertained under this head, unless we except some remarks 

in the Edinb. Journ. of Science, No. ii, p. 302. 

I 

d.) Effect of surfaces on absorption of heat. 

All experimenters have usually blackened their thermometer. — 
(Cavallo, Phil. Trans., 1780.) 

Prof. Robison exposed a thermometer on charred oah under a glass 
cover to the rays of a fire, when it rose to 212° Fahr. — (Black's Led., 
i, 547; Thompson, i, 127.) 

e.) Effect of screens. 

1.) Mariotte interposed a glass screen between the fire and concave 
mirror, and found the heat no longer sensible at the focus. — (Biot, iv., 
606; Mem. Paris, i, 344.) 

Scheele interposed a glass screen in the experiment before men- 
tioned, and found the heat of a fire so much intercepted as to be no 
longer sensible to the hand — not even sensible in the focus of a re- 
flector. 

Pictet with the conjugate reflectors interposed a glass screen. The 
focal thermometer, which had risen 10°, fell 7° in nine minutes; on 
removing the screen it rose again. — (Essais de Phys., p. 63.) 

2.) Sir W. Herschel tried experiments on this point. — (Phil. Trans., 
1800.) Two moveable objects illuminated by a lamp were viewed by 
the eye, one through an open hole, the other through a hole covered 
successively by different transparent media. One object was moved 
to greater or less distance, till they appeared equally bright; the 



RADIANT HEAT. oL6 

interceptive pojver was estimated directly as the illumination required 
to produce the equalization, that is, inversely as the square of the 
distance. 

Two equal thermometers enclosed in a box, with apertures over 
the bulbs, (which were plain,) one open, the other covered succes- 
sively by the different transparent media, were exposed to different 
sources of heat, and the interceptive effects compared together and 
with those of the same media for light. Thus among the results were 
the following: 

Common Fire. Candle. 

Light. Heat. Light. Heat. 

Coach glass # 750 86 625* 

Dark red glass 999 573 999 526 

3.) Refraction by lenses. 

Lambert collected the rays of a fire by a large lens and found the 
heat scarcelv sensible to the hand. 

Sir W. Herschel (Phil Trans., 1800, pp. 272, 309, 327,) received 
the rays of a candle on a lens, with a pasteboard screen, having an 
aperture nearly equal to that of the lens; the thermometer in the 
focus rose 2|° Fahr. in 3 minutes; the same with the rays from a fire, 
and from a mass of red hot iron. 

M. Brande found the rays of a flame, concentrated by a lens, pro- 
duced an effect on a blackened thermometer in its focus; the lens did 
not become heated. — (Phil. Trans., 1820, Parti.) 

4.) Dr. Ritchie found that if Leslie's photometer be placed opposite 
a ball of iron heated almost to redness no effect whatever will be 
produced; but if the temperature of the ball be raised so as to shine 
in the dark with a dusky red color, the fluid in the stem of the black 
ball will sink a considerable number of degrees. If the temperature 
of the ball be raised still higher it will produce a greater effect upon 
the instrument than the flame of the finest oil-gas, though the one 
possesses a much greater illuminating power than the other. 

Dr. Turner and Dr. Christison have found that Leslie's photometer 
"is powerfully affected by heat" when placed "before a ball of iron 
heated so as not to be luminous, or even before a vessel of boiling 
water." The opposite result of Dr. Ritchie may possibly be owing 
to some difference in the surface, substance, or thickness of the black 
bulb employed. — (Edinb. Journ. of Science, iv, 321.) 

I have found differences, which I am at a loss to account for, be- 
tween the effects on a differential thermometer with the bulbs of 
equal height, and one in which they are in a vertical line. 

5.) That there exist essential differences between the constitution 
of the heating power of luminous hot bodies and that of the same 
power proceeding from those which are non-luminous was remarked 
by former experimenters. But it is a point which does not seem to 
have excited any close or systematic inquiry until the subject was 

*Out of 1,000. 



dl4 RADIANT HEAT. 

taken up by M. De la Roche, whose researches are justly entitled to 
the high celebrity they have acquired. The report "of the French 
Institute upon them will be found in the Annals of Phil., 0. S., ii, 
161; and a full account of the experiments in Biot's Traite de Phys., 
iv, 640. 

The whole series of results is as follows: 



Source of heat. 



RISK OF THERMOMETER IN 1 MIN. CENT1G. 



No screen. 



Transparent 
screen. 



Blackened 
screen. 



1. Vessel of mercury, temp. 180° cent 

2. Vessel of mercury, boiling, 346° 

3. Iron, 427° 

4. Copper, 960°, (1) 

5. Ditto (2) 

6. Argand lamp — no chimney 

7. Argand lamp — chimney 



o 
3.94 
1G. 33 
32.8 
38.97 
71.54 
21. 12 
23.44 



0.22 

1.36 

4.70 

11.83 

21.41 

7.29 

12.82 



o 

0.07 

0. 17 

0.31 

0.40 

0.73 

0.21 

0.23 



The first two experiments of this series have been already consid- 
ered. The third, or iron, at 427° centig. was at a red heat, its 
temperature of luminosity in the dark being about 400°. This, there- 
fore, and the subsequent part of the series are affected by the con- 
sideration that light was emitted, which materially alters the case, as 
we shall presently observe. 

De la Roche infers from these experiments that a portion of simple 
radiant heat is transmitted directly in the way of radiation through 
glass, and that this increases as the temperature is raised. 

A thick glass, though very transparent, stops heat more than a 
thin glass less so; the difference is less as the temperature is raised. 

A portion of the heat having been intercepted by one screen, a 
proportionally much less diminution is caused by the introduction of 
a second; hence he infers that the rays emitted of a hot body are of 
several kinds, possessing different degrees of power to pass through 
glass. 

He views the results, when the source of heat is' raised to the tem- 
perature of luminosity, as forming one connected series with those 
below that point, and thus conceives a gradual advance in the radiant 
matter or agent from the state of simple heat towards that of light or 
"luminous heat." 

6.) The theory adopted by De la Roche, as well as by Biot (Traite 
de Phys., iv, G40) and Leslie, is that of one simple agent, which, as 
the temperature of the source is raised, is gradually brought more 
into the state of light, which on absorption is reconverted into heat. 
At low temperatures it is wholly or nearly all stopped by transparent 
eoreens. At increasing intensities more of it is enabled to pass in 
the way of direct radiation. 



RADIANT HEAT. 315 

In order to establish this theory, it would be necessary to show 
that whatever maybe the particular law of relation to the surfaces of 
bodies by which the action of the " igneous fluid" is determined at 
any stage of its evolution, the portion transmitted by a screen should 
act upon any two given surfaces in precisely the same ratio as the 
part intercepted, or as the whole. Such a ratio will obviously differ 
at different stages of incandescence or inflammation; but at the same 
stage it ought to be found exactly the same — only diminished in the 
actual magnitude of its terms when the glass screen is interposed, as 
when there is none. 

But no such experimental proof had been offered by any of the 
experimenters before named. It was obviously called for to support 
or refute their theory, and was capable of teing easily supplied by 
experiment. That the conclusion is not a necessary one will be 
evident by merely observing that the phenomena may just as well be 
explained by supposing two distinct heating influences, one associated 
in some very close way with the rays of light, carried, as it were, by 
them through a glass screen without heating it; the other being 
merely simple radiant heat stopped by the screen, exactly as in the 
case of a non-luminous hot body. 

To ascertain by experiment which of these suppositions was the 
true one, was the object of an inquiry which I communicated to the 
Royal Society, and which is published in the Phil. Trans., 1825, Part 
I, p. 187. I also gave an abstract of the results, accompanied by 
other illustrative remarks, and some theoretical views in a paper in 
the Quarterly Journal of Science, No. XIX, p. 45. Some remarks 
also on the experiments are made^n the Edinb. Journ. of Science, N. 
S. No. VI, p. 304. 

These experiments combine the examination of the effect of screens 
with those of surfaces. It is assumed, on the authority of previous 
experiments, that simple heat affects a thermometer in proportion to 
the absorptive nature of its surface: for example, a surface washed 
with a paste of chalk is rather more absorptive than one coated with 
Indian ink; and this kind of heat is stopped by transparent screens of 
ordinary thickness. It would seem, from some experiments already 
mentioned, that from luminous hot bodies the effect is greater in ref- 
erence to the darkness of color of the surface, and is transmitted 
through glass. But when a body is heated to luminosity, how does 
this change in its properties take place ? Are its relations gradually 
altered in themselves? or are there tioo sorts of heating effect emanat- 
ing from it at the same time ? These are the questions which my 
experiments were directed to answer, and the mode of trying the 
point is extremely simple; it is only to ascertain whether of the total 
heating effect from a luminous hot body, the portion intercepted by a 
transparent screen is of the same nature as, or different from, the 
part transmitted, in its relation to the surfaces on which it acts. 

The experiments were conducted simply by having two thermome- 
ters, one coated with smooth black, the other with absorptive white, 
observing the ratio of the effects when they were exposed together 



316 RADIANT HEAT. 

to the direct influence of a luminous hot body, and comparing it with 
the ratio similarly observed when a glass screen was interposed. 

The screen acquiring, and therefore radiating, heat from the first 
moment of the experiment, will affect the thermometers in a ratio (as 
before observed) differing little from equality; and these equal quan- 
tities added to the terms of the ratio of the direct effects of the 
luminous body, will, of course, diminish the inequality of that ratio. 
This cause of error may not have operated to any great degree, but 
its tendency is obviously to a diminution of the ratio. 

Notwithstanding this, the observed result in all cases with a lamp, 
or with iron raised to a "bright red heat, was, that the ratio of the 
effect on the black to that on the white thermometer was increased by 
the interposition of ihejkcreen. 

A summary of the results of two sets of experiments, (conducted 
with some slight variation,) and in the second of which the tempera- 
ture acquired by the screen was carefully noted, is as follows : 

Rise of thermometer (centig.) in 1 mia. 
Glass screen. No screen. 



( (1 ) 1° 2 
Iron bright hot < L'( ft "1 

Argand lamp • • 



White Black. White. Black. 

(1.) 1°.25 2°.75 7°.0 8°.75 

... 1 .25 2 .95 3 .75 

(1.) .6 2 .0 1 .8 3 A 

(2.) 1 .3 2 .35 - : 2 .35 3 .2 

These numbers are the means of several repetitions. 

The necessary conclusion from ||iis difference in the ratio of the 
direct and screened effects is, that the portion of heat which has the 
property of permeating the screen, has also the property of affecting 
the two surfaces in a ratio different from that in which the part inter- 
cepted acts upon them. 

As in researches of this kind great numerical precision is unattain- 
able, I was especially, at every step of the inquiry, anxious to devise 
as many variations of the experiment as possible; these all tended to 
confirm the results just given. 

Thus I used a large differential thermometer having its bulbs dif- 
ferently coated, and exposed each of them in turn to the luminous source 
of heat, the other being completely screened, and invariably found 
the ratio of the effects on the black and white bulbs considerably 
greater when affected only by the transmissible part of the heat than 
when exposed to the whole. As before, the part added on the remo- 
val of the screen was of a nature tending to add to the terms of the 
former ratio quantities in a ratio much nearer equality, viz: that which 
the effects of simple radiant heat would give when acting respectively 
on the two bulbs. 

Other variations of the fundamental experiment were as follows: 

A differential thermometer having one bulb black was exposed to 
the radiation from luminous hot bodies, first with and then without 
the interposition of a glass screen, the same position being preserved. 

If the screen had no influence, it is evident that in whatever pro- 



RADIANT HEAT. 317 

portion the radiant matter affects the two bulbs, if it be of one simple 
kind, the only difference on removing the screen will be that its 
intensity will be increased, but will act on the two bulbs in the same 
proportion as before. Consequently an increase of effect, or motion 
of the liquid in the tube in the same direction as before, must take 
place. 

In various experiments of this kind, after using several precautions 
against the influence of the screen, I never found an increase, and gene- 
rally a decrease; that is, the action on the other bulb was now in- 
creased, or the portion of heat before intercepted and now admitted 
has a different relation to surfaces from that transmitted. — (Quarterly 
Journal of Science, xix, p. 45.) 

Similar experiments were tried with the fAvo bulbs in a direct line 
from the hot body, each placed nearest alternately, with and without 
a screen. The difference of ratios in the two cases was very striking. 
— (Annals of Phil., June, 1825, p. 401. See, also, Udinburg Journal 
of Science, No. IV, 323.) 

Upon the whole, the unavoidable conclusion is, that if the total 
direct effect were the result of one simple agent, the intervention of 
the glass would, by intercepting some portion of it, produce no other 
alteration than a diminution of intensity; the ratio of the two effects 
would remain unchanged. But the reverse being the case, it follows 
that there are two distinct agents or species of heat acting together. 
Upon combining these results with those of previous experimenters, 
we are led to the following general statement of the case: 

When a body is heated, at lower temperatures, it gives off radiant 
heat stopped entirely by the most transparent glass, and affecting bodies 
in proportion to the absorptive texture of their surfaces. 

At all higher temperatures it continues to give off such radiant heat, 
distinguished by exactly the same properties. 

At a certain temperature it begins to give out light; precisely at 
this point it begins also to exercise another heating power distinct 
from the former; this is capable of direct transmission through glass, 
and affects bodies in proportion to their darkness of color. 

This second species appears to agree with what the French philos- 
ophers have called " calorique lumineux," or the "igneous fluid" of 
Professor Leslie, but they seem to have considered it as constituting 
the entire effect. 

The distinction thus established easily applies to the explanation 
of De la Roche's results, before stated. On inspection, it appears that 
the numbers in the column belonging to the blackened screen are 
almost exactly in the same ratio to the first or direct effect through- 
out the whole series. 

Upon the principle here laid down, the effects with the blackened 
screen would be those arising from the absorption and subsequent 
radiation of both species of heat; these in each- instance being ab- 
sorbed in the proportions in which they existed in the original radia- 
tion, produce a secondary effect proportional to the primary. 

The effect with the transparent screen does not follow any propor- 
tion to the primary; and this is explicable as due to the glass inter- 



318 RADIANT HEAT. 

cepting the one kind of heat which follows no proportion to the other, 
this last being wholly transmitted. Also by comparison of the 
latter experiments with the two first of the series, it is probable that, 
throughout, a certain degree of heat was in this case also absorbed 
and radiated again by the screen. 

The existence of this distinction, and the proportion between the 
two species of heat in the radiation from different sources, as various 
kinds of flame, metal at successive stages of incandescence, &c, 
afford many topics of inquiry, on some of which I attempted some 
rough determinations, coiifessedly very imperfect. — (Annals of Phil., 
N. S. liii, 359; liv, 401.) The distinction applies to some results of 
Mr. Brande on the flames of different gases, (Phil. Trans., 1820, Part 
I, p. 22,) and of Count Rumford on increased intensity of combustion 
and on the coalescing of several flames. — (Essays, i, 304.) 

7.) Melloni states (Ann. de Chim., December, 1831, p. 385,) that 
by using his thermo-multiplier he has found the permeability of trans- 
parent bodies to heat to be also dependent on their refractive poiver. 
He has compared twenty such media, and finds the order of permea- 
bility constantly the same, whatever be the temperature of the source. 
Chloruret of sulphur has the greatest power, oil next, and water least; 
he exposed them to the rays of a candle, an Argand lamp, or the sun. 
He finds the differences of permeability less, the higher the tempera- 
ture. The full account is promised in another memoir. 

All this obviously applies only to luminous hot bodies. 

MM. Melloni and Nobili, in their former paper, (Annales de Chimie, 
October, 1831, p. 211,) also speakof the heat from phosphorus hav- 
ing been by these means found sensible, though it is often supposed 
to give light without heat. 

8.) For information on various points connected with the subject, 
and on the theories of the evolution of light and heat, the following 
references may be useful: 

Wedgewood (Phil. Trans., 1792, p. 28) thinks that light from 
attrition is produced by a heat of from 400° to 600° Fahrenheit. 

Dize on Heat as the Cause of Shining. — (Journ. de Phys., xlix, 177. 
Gilbert, Ann. iv, 410.) 

Fordyce on Light from Inflammation. — (Phil. Trans., 177G, p. 504. 
Morgan. Phil. Trans., 1785, p. 190. M. Hermstaedt, Nicholson's 
Quarto Journal, v, 187.) 

Mr. Davies on Flame. — (Annals of Phil., December, 1825.) 

Mr. Deuchar on Flame. — (Edinb. Phil. Journal, iv, 374.) 

M. Seguin on Heat and Motion, &c. — (Edinb. Journ. of Science, xx, 
280.) 

Division III. 

HEAT OF THE SUN'S RAYS. 

Speaking according to our ordinary sensations, we are accustomed 
to say that the sun communicates both light and heat. Light is trans, 
mitted in a way which we term radiation. The heat from non-lumi^ 



RADIANT HEAT. 319 

nous hot bodies is transmitted to a distance in a way closely analogous, 
and to which the same name has been applied. 

In the first instance, we might suppose that the sun sends out two 
separate emanations — one of light, and another distinct from it, and 
similar to that of radiant heat from a mass of hot water; and this, 
perhaps, was the first view taken of the subject, though a confused 
idea of some very close and intimate connexion subsisting between 
the solar light and heat appears to have prevailed. 

This subject, as might naturally be expected, attracted the early 
notice of experimenters. A very slight examination sufficed to show 
that the rays of solar heat, (whatever their nature might be,) differed 
essentially in many properties from those of terrestrial heat, whether 
radiated from luminous or non-luminous bodies. Whether there ex- 
isted a separate set of healing rays distinct from those of light, and 
at the same time differing in many respects from rays of terrestrial 
heat; or whether these differences depended on some unknown prop- 
erty of the rays of light, was a question which for a long time remained 
without any direct investigation, and on which even now we have, 
perhaps, no very precise ideas. 

I. — Solar rays in their natural state. 

a.) Nature of radiation. 

1.) The solar heat is transmitted through the air without heating it. 

It invariably accompanies the l^'ht. 

Scheele conceived that the sun's rays of light produced heat not 
when in motion but when stopped by the interposition of solid bodies. 
— (On Air and Fire, &c.) 

Mr. Melville seems to have adopted nearly the same theory, and to 
have conceived reflection at an opaque surface to be the cause of an 
excitation of heat from the sun's rays. — (Evans on the Calorific Rays, 
&c, Phil. Mag., June, 1815.) 

In general, for light of the same composition the heat appears 
nearly proportional to the illuminating intensity. 

2.) Measures of radiation. 

Theory of the sensibility of thermometers especially for experiments 
of this kind.— (Sir W. Herschel, Phil. Trans., 1800, Note, p. 447.) 

Leslie contends for the exact proportionality of intensity of light 
and heating power. — (Inquiry, pp. 160 and 408.) 

Theory and construction of his "Photometer," ch. xix, p. 403. 

Ritchie's "Photometer," of the same kind. — (Phil. Trans., 1825, 
Part I, p. 141.) See his Remarks on Leslie's Photometer, Edinb. 
Journ. of Science, No. IV, 321, and V, 104. 

Mr. Daniell, in his work on Meteorology, has collected a great 
number of observations on the heating power of the sun's rays in dif- 
ferent latitudes from the polar to the equatorial regions. Most of 
these observations were made by comparing two thermometers, one 
of which was kept in the shade, whilst the other, having its bulb 



oZO RADIANT HEAT. 

blackened, was exposed to the direct rays of the sun; but, as Dr. 
Ritchie observes, no correction seems to have been made for the 
variable causes which abstract caloric from the blackened ball of the 
exposed thermometer. — (Edinb. Journ. of Science, v, 107.) 

In the same paper is described the method proposed by Sir J. F. 
W. Herschel; his object was to ascertain, by direct experiment, the 
relative heating power of the sun's rays; this he did by exposing in 
a glass vessel, or large thermometer, at different times and places, 
a deep blue liquid, for a given time, to the direct rays of the sun, 
noting the increase of temperature, which was purposely rendered 
very small by properly a'djusting the capacity of the instrument, then 
shading the sun's direct rays, and leaving it exposed for an equal 
time to the free influence of all the other heating and cooling causes, 
radiation, conduction, wind, &c. , and again noting the effect of these. 
The same difference of these, according to their signs, was the effect 
of the mere solar radiation. Dividing this by the time of exposure, 
he had the momentary effect or differential co-efficient, which is the 
true measure of the intensity of radiation. 

Professor Cumming has been engaged in researches, the object of 
which was to obtain a measure of the total heating effect of the sun's 
rays. He has communicated for this report an account of his inves- 
tigations, of which the following is the substance. 

His instrument consists of a bent tube in the form jq, one side ter- 
minating in a black bulb containing ether, or sulphuretof carbon; the 
other a graduated tube closed at the bottom; into this, on exposure 
to the sun, some of the liquid is distilled over from the bulb; and the 
quantity measured on the scale is^roportional to the amount of radia- 
tion, when all interfering causes are allowed for; and these are esti- 
mated by comparative observations. 

The experiments have been varied by exposing the bulb and 
screening the other part, or by exposing the whole instrument equally 
to the sun; and by making contemporaneous observations with the in- 
strument wholly uncovered, or covered totally or partially by a glass 
to protect it from currents of air. 

The Professor has endeavored to make a standard scale by regis- 
tering the sun's radiation on clear days every half hour, or hour, in 
the usual manner, and comparing them with the contemporary distil- 
lation; or by placing the two sides of the instrument in two vessels of 
water at unequal temperatures, and noting the distillations in given 
times by ascertained differences of temperature. 

The instrument is filled with ether in the same manner as Wollas- 
ton's Cryophorus (from which the suggestion was taken;) but there 
is an inconvenience, arising from the circumstance of the difference 
of pressure under which the instrument is hermetically sealed, which 
renders two instruments not strictly comparable; this he proposes to 
remedy by sealing a standard instrument when exhausted to a known 
pressure by the air pump. 

The ether or sulphuret of carbon employed must be perfectly pure, 
or there is a re-absorption. The circumstance of being exposed to 
the air, or covered, makes great differences in the indications j 



RADIANT HEAT. 321 

especially in windy weather. To avoid an inconveniently long scale, 
there should be two instruments constructed, one for winter and the 
other for summer. The Professor has kept for nearly a year a regis- 
ter of sunshine. 

b.) Reflection of solar heat. 

1.) It takes place exactly by the same laws as that of the light. 

The heat is collected in the focus of concave reflectors along with 
the light. 

2.) The sun's rays reflected from the moon are probably much too 
feeble to allow of any heat being made sensible. 

Dr. Howard, however, states that, with a peculiar differential ther- 
mometer, he has obtained an effect. — (Silliman's American Journal,vol. 
ii, 329.) 

MM. Melloni and Nobili (with the apparatus before described) tried 
to detect heat in the moon's rays, but without success; they mention, 
however, that terrestrial radiation interferes greatly with such exper- 
iments, and do not describe fully their contrivances for obviating this 
cause of error. — (Ann. de Chimie, Oct., 1831, p. 210.) 

3.) Berard (memoir before cited) tried the 'polarization of the solar 
heat; that is, polarized the sun's light; and in the position of non- 
reflection found that the heat had disappeared with it. — (See Edinb. 
Journ. of Science, vi, 297.) 

c.) Under this head nothing known. 

d.) Effect of surface on the absorption of solar heat. 

1.) I am not aware of any experiments directly showing how far the 
same relation to the texture of surfaces which has been found in ab- 
sorption of simple heat may hold good in regard to the sun's rays. 
But for surfaces of the same texture it has been incontrovertibly estab- 
lished that the effect in this case increases in proportion to the dark- 
nets of color, or in proportion to the absorption of light; and it would 
seem most probable that this relation is the only one which really 
holds good, the texture of the surface being probably quite indifferent 
except so far as it tends to the better absorption of the light. 

2.) Among the earliest experiments on the subject, if not actually 
the first, were those of Mr. Boyle, on the different degrees of heat 
communicated by the sun to black, white, and red colored surfaces. 

He caused a large block of black marble to be ground into the form 
of a spherical concave speculum, and found that the sun's rays reflected 
from it were far from being too powerful for his eyes, as would have 
been the case had it been of any other color; and although its size was 
considerable, yet he could not set a piece of wood on fire with it, 
whereas a far less speculum of the same form, made out of a more 
reflecting substance, would presently have made it inflame. 

It was remarked by Scheele that the thermometer, when filled with 
alcohol of a deep red color, rose more rapidly when exposed to the 
21 



322 RADIANT HEAT. 

sun's rays than another filled with the same kind of spirit uncolored; 
but that the fluid rose equally in both when dipped together into the 
same vessel of warm water. — (On Air and Fire, &c.) 

Dr. Franklin found that the hand, when applied alternately to a 
black and to a white part of his dress in the sun, would feel a great 
difference in their warmth. 

He observed that black paper was sooner fired by exposure to the 
focus of a lens than white. 

His well known experiment of placing differently colored pieces of 
cloth on the snow in the sun, and observing them sink deeper in pro- 
portion to the darkness of color, was first suggested by Dr. Hooke. 

3.) Cavallo observed that a thermometer, with its bulb blackened, 
stands higher than one which had its bulb clear when exposed to tho 
light of the sun, or even of the clouds. — (Phil. Trans., 1780.) 

Pictet made a similar observation, observing that when the two 
thermometers remained for some time in a dark place they acquired 
precisely the same height. He also found that when they had both 
been raised to a certain point, the clean one fell much faster than the 
coated one. — (Stir h Feu. ch. iv. Thomson, i, 126.) This last state- 
ment is so contrary to all other experiments that we must suppose 
some mistake. 

De Saussure received the sun's rays into a box lined with charred 
cork, containing a thermometer with a glass front; it rose in a few 
minutes to 221°, when the temperature of the air was 75°. — (Voyages, 
ii, 932.) 

Professor Robison, in a siinila%experiment, employed three vessels 
of flint glass within each other at one-third of an inch distance, set on 
a base of charred cork, and placed on down in a pasteboard cylinder; 
the thermometer within, in clear sunshine, rose to 230°, and once to 
237°.— (Black' s Led. i, 547. Thomson, i, 127.) 

Sir H. Davy took several small disks of copper of equal weight, size, 
and figure, on one side painted respectively white, yellow, red, green, 
blue, and black. A mixture of oil and wax, which became liquid at 
a temperature of 7G° Fahr., was attached to the other surface of each 
disk : and on exposing the colored surfaces together to the sun's rays, 
the length of time elapsed before tho mixture on each began to be 
affected was in tho order in which they are above enumerated.-— (Bed- 
doe's dlcdical Contributions, p. 44.) 

4.) The experiments of Sir E. Home (PHI Trans., 1821, Parti,) 
are particularly deserving of attention, as exhibiting what might at 
first sight be considered an exception to the above remarks a greater 
effect being produced in some instances on a white than on a black 
surface. A more attentive examination, however, will show us that 
these experiments prove thus much: The heat occasioned by the 
rays of the sun when received directly, or when in some degree inter- 
cepted, as by thin white cloth, on the skin, is greater than that com- 
municated by conduction to the same skin through a black cloth in 
contact with it, which is itself, in the first instance, heated by absorb- 
ing the rays. 

He observes, also, that a white skin is scorched, and that of a negro 



RADIANT HEAT. 323 

is not, in 10 minutes, by the direct rays of the sun; that is, as before, 
the outer coat of the skin allows some of the direct rays to pass through 
and affect the sentient substance beneath; whereas, in the case of the 
black, the rays are absorbed and converted into heat of temperature, 
which diffuses itself equally, and does not produce the effect of 
scorching. 

5.) The most singular facts connected with the absorption of the 
sun's rays, are those exhibited by the substances called "phosphori" 
or "pyrophori." — (Thomson's Chem»i, 17.) 

The general fact is, that after exposure to the sun, on being 
removed into the dark they give out light, but it is after a time 
exhausted; it is given out more copiously and exhausted sooner if 
heat be applied. Many solar phosphori will always emit light of one 
color only, to whatever colored ray they may have been exposed. 
In a short notice given by Dr. Young, in his valuable Catalogue of 
Authors, it appears that M. Grosser found that such phosphori as 
emitted red light only were made to shine most by exposure to blue 
light.— (Hozier, xx, 270.) 

Beccari, in a memoir " de Phosphoris, " extracted in the Phil. 
Trans., 174G, p. 81, gives as one of his results, that the light emitted 
was brightest when the surface of the mass was of a rough texture; 
those which were smooth and polished retained little or none, but 
(supposing the color the same) a rougher surface would evidently 
absorb more light than a smooth one, and therefore might emit more. 

Mr. T. Wedgewood compared two pieces of phosphorescent marble, 
one naked, the other painted black; on applying uniform heat the 
coated marble gave out no light, though the other did. — (Phil. Trans., 
1792.) 

But the coating increased the radiating power, and it therefore 
probably did not retain heat enough to cause the extrication of light. 

Mr. Morgan, {Phil. Trans., 1785,) after examining many of the 
phenomena of phosphorescence, generalizes his views by maintaining 
that all phosphori emit light, proceeding in order from violet to red, 
in proportion as the process is effected by the application of an in- 
creasing degree of heat. 

This is a very curious subject, as connected with the whole theory 
of the relations of light and heat. Some valuable information might 
probably be obtained as to the degree of heat necessary, and whether 
there is any loss of heat when light is evolved, compared with cases 
when no light is evolved; as there should be, on the hypothesis of 
conversion of heat into light, or on that of heat becoming latent in 
the light. 

In Mr. Wedgewood's paper, above cited, is an account of the prin- 
cipal researches on the subject. 

e.) Effect of screens. 

1 .) That no diminution of the effect of the sun's rays on a blackened 
thermometer is occasioned by a transparent screen was remarked by 
several experimenters, particularly De la Roche. — (Biot, iv, 611.) 



324 RAW ANT HEAT. 

2.) I tried the point by two thermometers (as in the case of terres- 
trial heat) and found no perceptible difference in the ratio, with and 
without the screen, of the black and white thermometers. — (Annals of 
Phil, xli, 321.) 

The same result was found with a differential thermometer, with a 
glass screen over the bulb, which was not blackened. No difference 
was observable between the indication under these circumstances, 
and when both were exposed. — (Annals of Phil., xlii, 401.) 

Hence, I think we are entitled to conclude that there does not exist 
in the solar beam, in its natural state, any simple radiant heat, (as 
before defined;) but that the whole emanation consists of the other 
species, distinguished by the two characteristics of affecting sub- 
stances with heat in proportion to the darkness of their color, and 
being wholly transmissible through glass without heating it, and in- 
separable from the rays of light. 

This applies to the rays of the sun which come within the reach of 
our examination. It must, however, be admitted, as by no means 
improbable, that the sun may originally give out a separate radiation 
of simple heat. None of this kind reaches us; but Ave must consider 
the very different degree in which any medium, as air, absorbs or 
intercepts the passage of those two sorts of radiant agents. The heat 
from a hot body will not be perceptible at a short distance, while its 
light will traverse an amazing extent of length; and thus at different 
distances the ratio between the two sorts of heating effect will be 
very different. Some degree of simple heat, therefore, may actually 
be initially radiated by the sun and be lost before it reaches us. We 
do not know that there is any medium between the different parts of 
the solar system capable of absorbing heat. The highest regions of 
our atmosphere into which observation has penetrated are uniformly 
the coldest; but they are known to have a greater capacity for heat. 
Thus, though it is possible that some heat may reach to that distance 
and be absorbed without becoming sensible to us, its quantity must 
be very small; if, therefore, we suppose any simple heat to be initially 
radiated from the sun, it must be all, or nearly all, absorbed by some 
parts or appendages of that luminary exterior to the part where it 
is generated. 

3.) The concentration of the sun's heat by a lens is a familiar experi- 
ment. 
^ Sir W. Herschel (Phil. Trans., 1800, Exp. 23) concludes that there 
^is a focus of greatest heat farther from the lens than that of light; 
sealing-wax was scorched in the same time when in the luminous 
focus, and at half an inch further from the lens; this affords no proof 
of its being separated from the light. 

That the heat is found to accompany the rays of light in the most 
constant and inseparable manner through various refractions, as in 
the instance of the four lenses in the eye-piece of a telescope after 
reflection, is also remarked by Sir W. Herschel, (Phil. Trans., 1800, 
Exp. 11.) 



RADIANT HEAT. 325 

II. — Solar rays subjected to analysis by the prism. 

1.) The different heating powers belonging to different parts of the 
spectrum were probably first observed by the Abbe Rochon. — {Phil. 
Mag., June, 1815; and Biot, Traiie dePhys., iv. , GOO.) He found the 
maximum in the yellow-orange rays: tho prism was of flint glass: his 
thermometer was filled with spirits, probably therefore tinged red; 
this may account for his result. 

1 tried some experiments- with the bulb of the thermometer painted 
red, which appeared to agree with his result. — {Annals of Phil., li, 
201.) 

Professor Leslie applied his "photometer " to these experiments. — 
{Inquiry, p. 454.) 

Dr. Hutton observed the different heating powers, and that they 
are not proportional to the illuminating. — {Diss, on Light and Heat, 
p. 38.) _ 

Landriani found the maximum in the yellow rays, as also did Sene- 
bier. — (Volta, Letter e, &c, 130.) 

Berard {Mem d? Arcueil, iii; Ann. de Chimie, lxxxv, 309) repeated 
the experiment with a heliostat. He found the maximum in the red, 
but some heat beyond. He repeated the experiment in both the 
spectra formed by Iceland spar. 

2.) Sir W. Herschel {Phil. Trans., 1800, Part II) first observed the 
maximum of heat beyond the red end of the visible spectrum, and 
considered the effect as due to essentially invisible rays of a separate 
kind from those of light. 

Yet he found them subject to the same laws of refraction, and 
their dispersion corrected by another prism: they were concentrated 
by a lens {Ibid., p. 317.) and by reflection (pp. 298, 302.) 

Leslie objects to the conclusion of invisible rays, and tries to 
account for it as owing to an optical cause. — {Inquiry, Note, p. 559; 
see also Nicholson 1 s Journal, 4to, iv, 344 and 410.) 

Sir H. Englefield {Nicholson's Journal, iii, 125,) found heat beyond 
the visible red; it does not appear whether it was there at a maxi- 
mum: the rays w r ere such as to be concentrated by a lens, and he 
compared the effects on a black and white bulb. The exterior effect 
on the white bulb was in a much l^ss ratio to that within the visible 
spectrum than on the black. 

Sir H. Davy repeated these experiments in the clear atmosphere 
of Italy, and with thermometers of extremely minute size, to secure 
an instantaneous effect: he found the maximum beyond the red. 

These experiments, were also tried by Ritter and by Professor 
Wiinsch {Magazin der Gesellsch, &c, Berlin, 1807.) He used prisms 
of different substances; with alcohol, oil of turpentine, and water, the 
maximum was in the yellow; with green glass in the red; and with 
yellow glass on the extreme boundary. 

3.) But by far the most important and conclusive researches on this 
subject are those of Dr. Seebeck, who in a memoir read to the Royal 
Academy of Berlin, after discussing the conclusions and views of pre- 
vious experimenters, proceeds to an elaborate series of experiments 



326 RADIANT HEAT. 

of his own, in which he has discovered the cause of all their discrep- 
ancies. The position of the maximum heat in the spectrum depends 
entirely on the nature of the medium employed — a circumstance 
almost wholly unnoticed by former experimenters. 

The heating intensity is very small towards the violet extremity; 
it thence gradually increases in prisms of water, -alcohol, or oil of tur- 
pentine; the maximum is in the yellow space: in those of solution of 
sal-ammoniac and corrosive sublimate, or sulphuric acid, it is in the 
orange; in crown glass and common white 'glass, in the middle of the 
red; in those glasses which contain much lead, it is in the limit of the 
red; and in flint glass, beyond the visible boundary, but nearer to it 
with Bohemian than with English glass. In all cases it gradually 
diminishes from the maximum, and is perceptible to some distance 
beyond the visible boundary. — (Schweigger's JSfeues. Journ., x, 129. 
Annals of Phil., Sept., 1824; Abhandl. der Konigh. Acad. Wissensch of- 
ten in Berlin, 1818-'19, p. 305; Phil. Mag., Nov. and Dec, 1825; 
Edinb. Journ. of Science, No. II, 358.) 

4.) Analysis of the solar rays by the absorption of media. 

In respect to light, the remarkable variety in the absorption of dif- 
ferent rays exhibited by different media has been well established, 
and affords a new sort of analysis of light. 

In regard to the solar heat, similar researches have been made, 
though as yet to little extent. The first observations of the kind 
were those of Sir W. Herschel (Phil Trans., 1800.) He found the 
absorption of several kinds of glass for his invisible rays and for the 
middle red to be proportional to the following numbers out of 1,000 
rays incident: 

Invisible rays. Red rays. 

Flint glass 000 143 

Coach glass 143 200 

Crown -lass 182 ••• • 294 

Dark red glass 000 G92 

5.) Sir D. Brewster has lately been engaged in some researches on 
this subject, an abstract of which he has kindly communicated in 
manuscript for this report. Agreeably to the view he has established 
of the solar prismatic spectrum as consisting of spectra of three primary 
colors superposed, and having their maxima at different points, he re- 
gards the heating power as due, in like manner, to another primary 
spectrum superposed in the same way, and similarly the chemical rays. 
He makes the following statements with respect to the heating rays: 

1st. There is no proof whatever of the existence of invisible rays 
of any kind beyond the red or the blue extremity of the spectrum. 
Sir W. Herschel' s experiments prove the existence of heat beyond 
the visible extremity of the spectrum which he used, but Sir D. Brewster 
has succeeded in rendering the spectrum visible at every point where 
any heat was produced. 

By particular processes he has traced the light at that end greatly 
beyond the place where Frauenhofer makes the spectrum terminate. 



RADIANT HEAT. 327 

The same lie considers established in regard to the blue end of the 
spectrum and of the deoxidizing rays. He thinks it extremely probable 
that the heating and illuminating rays are different rays, but they have 
never yet been found in a state of complete separation. 

2d. Until it is proved, therefore, or rendered probable, that the 
same intensity of light of different colors, as it proceeds directly from 
tJie sun, is accompanied with different degrees of heat, we must 
assume it as true that the heating power is proportional to the illumi- 
nating power of the different rays of solar light. 

3d. It appears from Dr. Seebeck's experiments on the water 
spectrum, that this relation holds generally in it, as he found the 
maximum of heat to be in the yellow rays, or coincident with the maxi- 
mum of light. Hence Sir D. Brewster draws the important conclusion 
that water has tlf same degree of transparency for the solar heating rays 
that if has for light, which is the same as all colorless transparent media 
have for light; that is, water absorbs equally all the different rays ol 
solar heat in the same manner as it does all the different rays of solar 
light. 

4th. It has been found by experiment that with prisms of crown 
glass the maximum heating effect is in the middle of fin' red space. 
Unfortunately the relation between the maximum heed in the water 
spectrum and in the crown glass spectrum has not been ascertained. 
If we suppose them equal, it appears that the crown glass must have 
exercised a greater cdtsorptive action than the water upon the more 
refrangible rags, and a less absorptive action upon the less refrangible 
rays, in the same manner as is done by red glasses upon light. 

A prism of sulphuric acid gives the maximum ordinate of heat in 
the orange space, or the fluid absorbs more of the red rays than crown 
glass, ami less of the rays on the other side of the orange. 

In flint glass, where the maximum heat is at the very extremity of 
the spectrum, scarcely any of the red rays are absorbed, while great 
proportions of all the others are. 

Dr. Turner (Chem., p. 84, 3d edit.) says that it is difficult to account 
for Seebeck's results, without supposing that different media differ in 
their power of refracting caloric, (t. e., the heating rays of the sun.) 

Sir D. Brewster considers that the true explanation is that which 
the above principles afford, viz: that colorless transparent bodies, in 
acting upon the solar heat, exercise the same sort of absorptive action 
upon it that colored transparent bodies do upon light, the maximum 
ordinate shifting its position with the nature of the body. Colored 
media give sometimes two or more maxima of light, with large spaces 
and small lines entirely defective of light, in consequence of the ab- 
sorption being total at those places. 

In like manner he is persuaded it will be found that there are de- 
fective spaces and lines in the spectrum of solar heat; these he thinks 
may possibly be detected by using as thermometers the minute natural 
cavities in topaz, &c, filled with fluid or vapor, and not more than 
0.001 inch in magnitude. 

5th. These views are exactly accordant with the results of Sir W. 
Herschel above stated. 



328 RADIANT HEAT. 

They are equally consistent with the facts, whether the curve of 
heat terminate abruptly at the extremity of the red space, or continue 
beyond the visible spectrum. 

Sir D. Brewster has, by particular methods of condensation, suc- 
ceeded in detecting both heat and light at considerable distances' 
beyond the maximum of heat with a Hint glass prism, that is, rays 
undergoing very little refraction. 

He considers it highly probable that the deoxidizing rays will be 
found to be subject to the same laws of absorption as those of heat and 
light; the media we commonly use may absorb them copiously, whilst 
others may be found which may transmit them more abundantly. 

Similarly with the magnetizing rays. And thus we may account 
for the contradictory results hitherto obtained on this point by sup- 
posing that some ingredient rendered one prism absorptive of these 
rays, and another not so. 

6th. Sir D. Brewster extends these views to the analogies between 
solar and terrestrial heat. 

He considers those rays ©f the solar spectrum just mentioned, which 
undergo little refraction, to be analogous to those thrown off by bodies 
slightly heated. The waves of heat are broad and slow in their 
motion; as the temperature is raised they are thrown off with more 
velocity, and become smaller and suffer a greater refraction. When 
the velocity is such as to give them a refraction equal to that of the 
red rays, then red light is produced; and successively the other colors' 
are added, till at a very high temperature white light is radiated. 

He proposes to examine what transparent body transmits most heat, 
and, by converting it into a lens, expects to find a series of foci at 
different distances, beginning from that of the violet rays to that of 
those corresponding to rays of very little refrangibility. 

7th. He applies these views as affording an explanation of De la 
Roche's result before mentioned, viz: that a second screen intercepts 
a much smaller proportion of the heat after passing a first than the 
first did of the whole effect. This De la Roche ascribed to something 
analogous to polarization. 

On the principle just stated the explanation is very simple. The 
first plate intercepts those rays which it has a tendency to absorb, 
and transmits the rest; the second, being of the same kind, of course 
will transmit these with scarcely any further diminution. 

He observes that thick masses of colorless fluid or of glass transmit 
scarcely any radiant heat in a way analogous to that in which thick 
masses of colored glass are opaque to all rays of light. 

He conceives that substances may be found which are opaque to light, 
and yet transparent to heat. These should be carefully sought for, 
as they would be of great practical value. Red glass, for example, 
which scarcely transmits any light, or one ray in 2,000, transmits all 
the invisible rays of Herschel, G92 of the 1,000 red rays, 006 rays 
out of 1,000 of solar heat, and 630 of "culinary" heat, according to 
Sir W. Herschel. We may expect, therefore, to find an opaque me- 
tallic glass, or thin plate of metal, which, though quite opaque for 
light, may transmit heat copiously. 



RADIANT HEAT. 329 

Sir I). Brewster considers Sir W. HerschePs experiment on the 
refraction of ''culinary" heat by lenses to be very unsatisfactory, as 
before noticed. He recommends a lens composed of zones, so as to 
have no greater thickness in the middle than towards the edges, a 
construction which he has described in his "Optics," p. 322, (Cabinet 
Encyclopedia,) and made of glass, which unites the highest refractive 
power with the smallest absorptive power for heat. 

It is also important to find, as sources of heat, bodies which do not 
become luminous till at extremely high temperatures. 

6.) The researches of M. Melloni have also been extended to this 
part of the subject. — (Annates de Chimie, December, 1831, p. 388.) 

From known observations on the spectrum, he remarks that there 
exists, on opposite sides of the maximum, isothermal points — one in a 
colored part, the other without the red end of the spectrum. 

On causing the different rays to pass through a plate of water, and 
noting the effect on the thermo-multiplier, the heat of the violet ray 
was undiminished, but its isothermal totally intercepted. 

That of the indigo slightly diminished; its isothermal not totally 
intercepted. 

Proceeding in this way with the other rays, he found in general 
that the portions of heating power intercepted in the colored rays, 
and those which are transmitted in their isothermal rays, increase in 
proportion as they approach the position of the maximum, where, of 
course, upon the whole, the interception is greatest; or, in other 
words, the rays of the calorific spectrum undergo an interception by 
water in proportion as their refrangibility is less. 

He gives a table of the numerical results. He views his results as 
precisely according with and explaining those of Seebeck. With a 
w^ater prism the heating orange and red rays are more intercepted 
than the yellow; in this, therefore, the maximum appears. 

Conclusion. 

We have thus far taken as close a survey as is consistent with the 
limits of a report like the present, of the successive and varied re- 
searches which have been made with the view of tracing the laws of 
radiant heat. In the present state of our knowledge it must, upon 
the whole, be avowed that we have little to contemplate but an 
assemblage of facts, or alleged facts, determined with more or less 
accuracy; few, indeed, with any great precision — many resting upon 
very vague evidence, and in several instances the results of different 
observers exhibiting a wide discrepancy, or even direct contradiction; 
whilst, with very few exceptions, any general laws can hardly be said 
to be established with that certainty which can substantiate their 
claim to be received as legitimate physical theories. 

In offering suggestions for the advance and improvement of this 
branch of science, the first and most essential point to which atten- 
tion ought to be directed is the improvement, or rather invention, of 
the means of obtaining accurate indications of radiant heat down to 
its most minute and feeble effects. In reference to this point good 



330 RADIANT . HEAT. 

determinations are much wanted of the degree to which the expan- 
sion of the bulb influences the accuracy of air thermometers. The 
improvement of mercurial thermometers so as to produce an instrument 
of extreme sensibility to the minutest effects of heat, is an object the 
attainment of which would probably be more important than that of 
any other means for accomplishing the end in view. But other 
methods, founded on good principles, should be diligently sought for 
and tried; for example, it might be matter of inquiry whether we 
could render available to this purpose the incipient melting or soft- 
ening of some substances by a very slight increase of heat, or the 
evaporation of volatile liquids. 

But it is more particularly desirable that the instrument of MM. 
Nobili and Melloni should be tried, and a precise examination set on 
foot of its real accuracy and the causes of error to whose influence it 
may be liable. This is the more necessary from the very remarkable 
character of many of their results, whilst the alleged sensibility of 
the instrument, as they describe it, is such as almost to exceed belief. 

When we shall have succeeded in obtaining that prime requisite, 
an unexceptionable measure of minute effects of radiant heat, we may 
then proceed with some hopes of success to examine the points on 
which there at present prevails so wide a discrepancy between differ- 
ent experimenters. 

The polarization of heat is, perhaps, the question which, of all 
others, requires the most extreme sensibility in our thermometer, or 
rather thermoscope, in order to its satisfactory determination. It may 
be tried, either directly, with the simple heat from non-luminous hot 
bodies, or with luminous sources, with and without a glass screen, 
comparing the total compound result with that due to the transmis- 
sible part, or heating power of light alone, and thence deducing the 
part due to simple heat. .The main difficulty is that of getting any 
indication at all, after two reflections from plane surfaces. 

Another point which requires further investigation is the apparent 
transmission of simple heat through very thin transparent screens, 
but not through opaque. This should be examined in connexion with 
the acute remark of MM. Nobili and Melloni, that a thin stratum of soot 
may retain its low conducting power, and thus intercept the effect. 
This, of itself, would form a subject for an accurate series of experi- 
ments, viz: whether the ratios of the conducting powers of substances 
remain the same for all thicknesses. 

The very nature of the transmissive and interceptive powers of 
screens is little understood. Supposing simple heat transmitted with- 
out diminution, how far is the mjjde of such transmission analogous 
to that of light? what time is required for a body to commence ra- 
diating heat after it has begun to acquire it? whether it acquires it 
from a distant source instantaneously? how the heat distributes itself 
upon or through a screen ? what is precisely the, effect of a coating 
on one side of the screen in relation to the last question? upon what 
the singular exceptions and anomalies pointed out by Melloni and 
Nobili depend? whether any other such apparently anomalous c^ses 
can be found? These are a few of the most obvious questions which 



RADIANT HEAT. 331 

arise out of the slightest survey of the present state of our knowl- 
edge, and on which accurate determinations are wanted before we 
can be said to possess even the elements of a scientific theory. 

May it not be the law that if a body be placed in the rays from a 
source of heat it will be acquiring and giving out heat till the inten- 
sity of radiation at the points before and behind it resumes its original 
proportionality ? 

The time in which this takes place will depend on the extent of the 
bod}', Us thickness, its conduct in </ power, its capacity for heat, and the 
state of both its surfaces. 

These may be such that the effect may be sensibly instantaneous, 
and the radiation therefor appear to go on without interruption. In 
this case, also, the distance of the screen from the source (within 
moderate limits) may make no sensible difference, though if any of 
the above circumstances retard the effect to a sensible amount, then 
there will be a difference with the variation of distance. In this way 
we may, as it were, regard the medium between the source and the 
thermometer as merely a compound, of which the screen is one por- 
tion and the air the other. 

Another class of questions respecting which little, if anything, is 
accurately known may be put with regard to the modification (if any) 
which radiant heat may undergo in passing through small apertures. 
This will again be connected with the interceptive power of net-tcorl\ 
Avery curious and delicate subject of inquiry is the repulsion exerted 
between heated bodies at sensible distances, of which a short notice 
is given in the Quarterly Journal of Science, xxxix, 164. 

The reflection of heat has been little examined, except in the single 
case of its concentration by spherical reflectors; and here (according 
to Leslie) it is not brought to the same focus as light; this requires 
examination, as well as the simpler case of plane surfaces, and the 
proportion of heat reflected at different incidences. There will prob- 
ably in all cases be a very large deduction to be made for the heat 
acquired by the reflector and radiated again. 

But another class of such questions yet remains in connexion with 
that fundamental point which was the object of my first inquiries. 
The conclusion from my experiments, viz: that luminous hot bodies are 
sending forth at the same time tiro distinct species of heat distinguished 
by different properties, is the unavoidable conclusion from the experi- 
ments, depending on the mathematical truth, that if a ratio be altered 
by the addition or subtraction of quantities from its terms, the quan- 
tities added or subtracted must be in a different ratio from the origi- 
nal one. I here repeat this, because the nature of the reasoning has 
not been perceived by some persons. This conclusion undoubtedly 
introduces a complexity into the view we must take of the phenomena; 
whereas, if we were at liberty to adopt the simpler theory of De la 
Roche and others, many of the apparent anomalies would be recon- 
ciled. Hence the verification of my results becomes a point of con- 
siderable importance. If any experimenter with more accurate ap- 
paratus shall succeed in showing them to bo erroneous, he will achieve 



332 RADIANT HEAT. 

an important step towards simplifying the theory. In this instance 
again the improvement of the thermometer is a primary requisite. 

I may here mention that I have recently had a more delicate ap- 
paratus made, with which I have repeated my former experiments, 
still with the same result; it consists of two thermometers mounted 
together, as before described. They were contrived for me by Mr. 
Cary, so as to have very large degrees for a small part of the scale a 
little above ordinary temperature. 1° Fahrenheit occupies about half 
an inch; but the bulbs are large, which is unfavorable to the rapid 
communication of the effect. These experiments are of a very tedious 
nature to repeat with precision, owing to the necessity of waiting 
between each repetition for the thermometers to cool and become 
stationary. 

But it should be observed that there is nothing in my results which 
contradicts the idea that simple heat may have in a very slight degree 
a power of transmissibility through glass; all I have assumed is, that 
it is sufficiently distinguishable in this respect from the heating power 
which accompanies the light, and which undergoes no diminution. 
Connected with these points, again, is the question, whether if simple 
heat can radiate through solid transparent media, it cannot also com- 
mence radiating in them. It is commonly asserted that radiation can 
only take place, or commence, in elastic media. This, then, is an in- 
quiry which will lead into a wide field of research, and may be found 
connected with the intimate nature of radiation. It will also be a 
question whether, and how far, radiant heat passes through elastic 
media without heating them, and what support this gives to Leslie's 
theory of pulsations. The whole subject should be viewed in con- 
nexion with the admirable remarks of Sir J. Herschel in his Discourse 
on the Study of Natural Philosophy, p. 205. 

The radiation of heat in vacuo is another point on which further in- 
quiry is much wanted. The greater capacity of air tor heat, as it is 
more rarefied, would occasion a more rapid abstraction from the hot 
body; and thus in an atmosphere of extreme rarity the cooling ought 
to be extremely rapid, and this must be accurately estimated in 
measuring the radiation. But it appears from the experiments of 
Gay-Lussac, (see Edinb. Phil. Joum., vi, 302,) that when air is re- 
duced to the most extreme degree of rarefaction possible a very con- 
siderable compression makes so little difference in its actual density 
that the giving out of heat which ought to take place from diminishing 
its capacity is absolutely insensible. 

But even in this case it is very questionable whether so complete 
an approach to a real vacuum is obtained as to warrant inferences 
respecting the radiation of heat in an actual vacuum. 

In fact, we want a connected series of determinations to show the 
order and increase of conducting powers, as connected both with the 
radiation in and through different media, and the interception which 
they offer to its passage. 

In solids it is -presumed no radiation can commence; it is disputed 
whether it can continue even partially; but conduction goes on rapidly 



RADIANT HEAT. 333 

In liquids it has been disputed whether there can bo radiation: and 
they are worse conductors than solids. 

In elastic media radiation can commence and continue; but they 
are still worse conductors. 

In vacuo it might be presumed by analogy tkat a yet more free 
radiation might take place; yet some experiments (as we have seen) 
show the contrary; and here there is no conduction. 

With regard to that portion cf the heat which accompanies or be- 
longs to light, the theory which I originally suggested, (merely as an 
hypothesis representing the facts,) viz: that it was simply the latent 
heat of light, developed, of course, when the light ivas absorbed, is con- 
nected with the hypothesis of the materiality of light; but it may be 
worth inquiry whether it does not apply even better to the elastic 
cether, in whose undulations light is now proved to consist. 



REPORT FOR 1840. 



Having been one of those who at the first institution of the British 
Association were applied to to prepare reports on the state and pro- 
gress of the different branches of science, and having in consequence 
laid before the Association at the Oxford meeting in 1832 such a 
review of the subject of Radiant Heat, I have felt peculiar satisfac- 
tion in being again honored by a request from the council to furnish 
a second report supplementary to the former, embracing the progress 
of knowledge in that department from the period to which the first 
report extends, up to the present time. 

Such a supplementary account has been rendered peculiarly neces- 
sary, from the great number and high importance of the results which 
have been arrived at by several eminent experimenters in the interval 
which has elapsed; and though much is still required to be done before 
we attain complete and satisfactory grounds for an unexceptionable 
theory of radiant heat, yet the discoveries recently made have at 
least tended greatly to modify all our previous conceptions, and to 
enable us to refer large classes of the phenomena to something like 
a simple and common principle. 

In my former report I divided the subject under various heads, de- 
rived from what appeared, in the existing state of our knowledge, 
well-marked distinctions between several kinds of effects ascribed to 
radiant heat. The more recent discoveries have in a great degree so 
changed our views of the subject that these divisions cannot with any 
advantage or convenience be adhered to. One grand principle of 
arrangement, however, has been newly supplied in the capital dis- 
covery of the polarization of heat; so that all the researches we have 
to describe will be conveniently classed under. two heads, as they 
relate— first, to radiant heat in its ordinary or unpolarized state; and 
secondly, to its polarized condition. 



334 RADIANT HEAT. 



Division I. — Unpolarized Heat. 
Transmission and Refraction of Heat: Melloni. 

Since the period to which my former report extends, various notices 
have from time to time been given to the British Association relative 
to the more important discoveries connected with radiant heat. My 
former report includes a statement of some of the first researches of 
M. Melloni. At the Cambridge meeting, in 1833, Professor Forbes 
gave some account of the further investigations in which M. Melloni 
was then engaged, including a brief abstract by M. Melloni himself 
of the chief results he had then obtained.* The full details were 
subsequently embodied in his several memoirs. 

In the earlier part of these researches, M. Melloni had found that 
the quantity of calorific rays which traverses a screen is proportional 
to the temperature of the source: but the difference constantly dimin- 
ishes as the thickness of the screen is less, until with very thin 
laminae it is insensible. 

This proves that the resistance to the passage of heat is not exerted 
at the surface, but in the interior of the mass. 

With the solar rays, he observed that with various thicknesses of 
sulphate of lime, water, and acids, the increase of interception, owing 
to increased thickness, is greater for the less refrangible rays of the 
spectrum. 

With terrestrial sources he found that a plate of glass, 2 mm. in 
thickness, stops, out of 100 rays, from flame 45, from copper at 950° 
cent, (incandescent) 70, from boiling mercury 92, from boiling water 
100. 

Comparing the transmissive powers of a great number of substances 
in a crystallized state, he concluded that the diathermaneity for the 
rays of a lamp was proportional to their refractive powers; but in 
uncrystallized bodies no such law could be traced. 

It was in the course of these researches that the author made the 
important discovery of the singular property possessed by Rock Salt, 
viz: that it is almost entirely permeable to heat even from non-lum- 
inous sources. He found its transmissive power six or eight times 
greater than that of an equal thickness of alum, which had nearly 
the same transparency and refractive power. He also discovered 
that (unlike other diathermanous media) it is equally diathermanous to 
all species of heat, i. e., to heat from sources of all degrees of lumin- 
osity or obscurity; or that it transmits in every case an equal propor- 
tion of the heat incident. 

Thus he found a plate of 7 mm. (.28 inch) in thickness transmits 
about 92 out of 100 rays, whether from flame, red-hot iron, water at 
212°, or at 120° Fahrenheit. A plate 1 inch thick gave a similar 
constant ratio. 

M. Melloni' s "Memoir on the Free Transmission of Radiant Heat 

* See Third Report, p. 381-'82. 



RADIANT HEAT. 335 

through Solid and Liquid Bodies," was presented to the Academy of 
Sciences at Paris, Feb. 4, 18o.">, and published in the Ann. de Chimie, 
No. liii, p. 1: a translation of it is given in Taylor's Scientific 
Memoirs. Tart I. 

The author commences with a slight sketch*of the researches of 
previous experimenters, but omits to notice any distinctions between 
the characters of the heat from different sources, or the different 
kinds of heat from one and the same source, when luminous, espe- 
cially as indicated by my experiments published in the Phil. Trans. 
for 1825. 

He then proceeds to some "general considerations on free trans- 
mission of caloric through bodies, and the manner of measuring it by 
means of the thermo-multiplicr." This, in fact, constitutes a sup- 
plementary and more enlarged portion of his former researches. He 
goes into extensive details on the precautions necessary to be used in 
such investigations; especially for guarding against the interference 
of secondary radiation: as this changes with the change of place of 
the screen, he thus allows for its effects. He also gives some general 
observations on the use of the galvanometer, and the correct estima- 
tion of the forces acting upon it. 

The next subject of inquiry is the effect due to " the polish, thick- 
ness, and nature of the screens." The source of heat being a lamp, 
screens were employed of glass rendered of different degrees of 
opacity by grinding, &c. ; and the effects by transmission through 
them were found to be in proportion to the transparency, or that the 
heat follows the same proportion as the light. 

The effect of liquids between glass plates was then tried; and more 
rays were found to be absorbed in proportion to the increase of thick- 
ness. Different numbers of glass screens were also employed in com- 
bination; the same conclusion also held good. 

The results with a numerous series of screens of various media, 
solid and liquid, were then tried, and are stated in a series of tables: 
Table I. Various kinds of uncolored glass. 

Table II. Liquids: to give a general sketch, the order of trans- 
mission was as follows, beginning with the greatest: 

Carburet of silver. 

Chlorides. 

Oils. 

Acids. 

Water. 
Table III. Crystallized bodies, transparent and opaque; the results 
follow no relation to transparency: the following is the general order: 

Rock salt. 

Various crystals. 

Alum. 

Sulphate of copper — no effect. 
Table IV. Colored glasses. Red and Violet transmitted most — 
yellow, green, and blue, least — heat. 

The author concludes, in general, (the source being a lamp.) that 
the diathermancy is not proportional to the transparency; and makes 



336 EADIANT HEAT. 

some general remarks on these results as related to those of Seebeck 
on prismatic dispersion. 

A supplement to the last paper was presented by the same author 
to the Academy, April 21, 1834, entitled " New Researches on the 
immediate Transmission of Radiant Heat through different Solid and 
Liquid Bodies." It is published in the Ann. de Chimie, lv, 337, and 
translated in Taylor's Scientific Memoirs, Part I, p. 39. 

The author first investigates " the modifications which calorific 
transmission undergoes in consequence of the radiating source being 
changed." 

He employs four sources of heat. 1. A Locatelli lamp. 2. Incan- 
descent platina. 3. Copper heated by flame to about 730° Fahren- 
heit. 4. Hot water in a blackened copper vessel. The heat from 
each of these sources was first compared as transmitted through plates 
of glass of different thicknesses, from .07 millims. to 8 millims. The 
results are given in a table, from which it appears that with copper 
and hot water the diminution of effect is rapid, with an increase o* 
thickness in the screen; with water it is nothing be} T ond a thickness 
of .5 mm. A second table gives results for about 40 solid media of 
different kinds of the same thickness; most of them were wholly im- 
pervious to dark heat; the most remarkable exceptions being fluate 
of lime and rock salt. 

In another table are the results with black glass and black mica; 
these substances, though diathermanous to the lamp and incandescent 
platina, are wholly impervious to the rays from hot water, and nearly 
so to those from heated copper. 

The discovery of the entire diathermancy of rock salt has been 
before referred to, and has furnished the means of prosecuting the 
author's yet more remarkable researches on the Refraction of Heat. 

To this important point M. Melloni devotes a portion of the same 
memoir. After a sketch of previous attempts to establish this prop- 
erty, he describes his successful experiment by concentrating to the 
focus of a rock-salt lens the rays of 'dark heat from hot copper and hot 
water. A similar lens of alum produced no effect. This proves that 
the effect is not due to the mere heating of the central part of the 
lens. 

He next advances to the refraction of heat by a rock-salt prism; 
describing an apparatus for the purpose. That the effect is not due 
to secondary radiation is shown by turning the prism on its axis into 
a different position, when no effect is produced. 

He then discusses the "properties of the calorific rays immediately 
transmitted by different bodies." Under this head are detailed one 
of the most remarkable species of effects which the whole range of 
the subject presents. 

The rays of the lamp were thrown upon screens of different sub- 
stances in such a manner that either by changing the distance, or by 
concentration with a mirror, or a lens of rock salt, the effect trans- 
mitted from all the screens was of a certain constant amount. This 
constant radiation was then intercepted by a plate of alum, and it was 
found that very different proportions of heat were transmitted by the alum 



RADIANT HEAT. 337 

in the different eases. This very singular result is established by 
numerous detailed experiments, of which a tabular statement is given; 
and the author states it in the following terms: "The calorific rays 
issuing from the diajrfianous screens are, there/ore, of different qualities, 
and possess, if we may use the wrm, the diathermancy peculiar to each of 
the substances through which they have passed. 7 ' 

He next investigates the effects of different colors in glass on the 
absorption of heat. He infers, in general, that the coloring matter 
diminishes the power of transmission, and examines the question, 
Does it stop only rays of a definite refrangibility analogous to what 
happens in the absorption of light ? 

With this view (following a similar mode of operation to that 
adopted in the last instance) he used, successively, glasses of different 
colors, for each of which the distance of the source was varied till a 
standard effect (about 40° deviation of the needle) was produced on 
the galvanometer. In this position, in each case, a plate of sulphate 
of lime was then interposed, and diminished the deviation to about 
18° for all the colored glasses, except green, in which case it was to 
about 8°. When alum was substituted the deviations were reduced, 
in the first case, to 8°, in the second to 1°.6. Hence he concludes 
that all the colored glasses, except green, produce no "elective 
action" on heat; green glass, on the contrary, transmits rays more 
easily stopped than the others. 

Connecting this with his other inference, that rays are stopped in 
proportion to their refrangibility, he instituted another series of ex- 
periments to put this to the test. The sources of heat compared 
were an argand lamp and incandescent platinum, the rays of heat 
from the former being the more refrangible. The quantities of heat 
from the lamp and the metal transmitted by the green glass were 
nearly equal; by all the others, nearly in the ratio of 2 to 1. Hence 
he infers that green glass is more diathermanous for rays of less 
refrangibility. 

Again, the rays transmitted by 'citric acid and some other sub- 
stances are those only of the greatest refrangibility. They should, 
therefore, be the least transmissible by green glass. This was found 
to be the case. Of 100 rays passed through citric acid, all the other 
glasses transmitted various preparations, from 89 to 28, while green 
glass transmitted only from 6 to 2. 

Without the citric acid the rays from incandescent platinum were 
more copiously transmitted by the green glass than by the others. 

The whole of the rays of low refrangibility emitted by the platinum, 
and for which alone the green glass is transparent, had been stopped 
by the interposition of the plate of citric acid, which had, as it were, 
sifted it free from these rays. 

Hence, the author concludes that "green glass is the only kind which 
possesses a coloration/o?* heat, [if ice may use the expression,) the others 
acting upon it only as more or less transparent glass of uniform tint 
does upon light." 

In a subsequent part of the memoir, M. Melloni gives a tabular 
view of the effects, observed in the same manner, of the constant 
22 



338 RADIANT HEAT. 

radiations emitted from six different substances, each intercepted 
successively by 24 minerals and 10 colored glasses, from which it 
appears that the transmission is very different, according to the 
nature of the first medium. 

He afterwards describes an experirAnt with the solar rays trans- 
mitted by a green glass, and then intercepted by other media. They 
pass copiously through rock salt, but feebly through alum. Hence he 
concludes that there are among the solar rays some which resemble those 
of terrestrial heat, and, in general, that " the differences observed between 
solar and terrestrial heat, as to their properties of transmission, are there- 
fore to be attributed merely to the mixture in different proportions of these 
severed species of rays." 

In a note to this memoir, M. Melloni refers to my original experi- 
ment, (Phil. Trans., 1825,) in which the action of the rays on surfaces 
is observed in connexion with their transmissibilty . 

He confirms the accuracy of my result by a careful repetition of the 
experiment with the thermo-multiplier, but makes no reference to the 
conclusion I Lad drawn, viz: the coexistence of two distinct sorts of 
heat in the radiation from luminous sources, one of which is the same 
as that from dark sources. He explains the result by supposing the 
transmitted rays to acquire, in and by the act of transmission through 
the glass screen, new properties in their relation to the surfaces on 
which they fall, i. e., to the degree of absorption they undergo re- 
spectively on a black and a white surface. 

He extends the investigation b} r a table of results of the same kind 
with a series of screens, both transparent, and of various degrees of 
opacity. The ratio of the effects on the black and white surfaces is 
nearer to equality as the screen is more opaque. 

On this subject there appears a short paper by M. Melloni in the 
London and Edinburgh Journal of Science, vol. vii, p. 175, to which 
I replied in the same journal, January, 183G. 

While referring to my own experiments, I may be allowed to add 
that in Dr. Thomson's Treatise oir Heat, &c, first edition, the bearing 
of my investigation was incorrectly represented, and accordingly I 
pointed this out in the London and Edinburgh Journal of Science, Nov., 
1830. 

In the second edition of Dr. Thomson's work, which has lately 
appeared, the author omits all mention of the subject whatever. 

Transmission and Refraction of Heat: Forbes. 

The subjects of transmission and refraction of heat were taken up 
by Professor Forbes, and Melloni's experiments repeated and extended 
by him, the details being given in the first and part of the second sec- 
tions of his first Memoir " on the Refraction and Polarization of Heat," 
read to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, January 5 and 19. 1835, and 
published in their Transactions, vol. xiii; also in the London and 
Edinburgh Journal of Science, vol. vi. 

The first section contains an account of various experiments with 
the thermo-multiplier. The principal object was to verify the several 



RADIANT HEAT. 339 

points already stated, and especially to determine the degree of accu- 
racy of the instrument. From a comparison of its sensibility with 
that of air thermometers, the author concludes that 1° of deviation of 
the needle corresponds to an effect indicated by about jV of a cen- 
tigrade degree. Without increasing the dimensions of the instrument, 
by which its sensibility would be impaired, he has been enabled, by 
the adaptation of a small telescope, readily to measure y 1 ^ of its de- 
grees, that is, about ^ -J- ¥ of a centigrade degree. 

One of the most interesting points to which the author directed his 
attention, was the possibility of detecting heat in the moon 1 s rays. 
These rays, concentrated by a polyzonal lens of 32 inches diameter, 
and acting on the thermo-multiplier, gave no indication of any effect, 
so that Professor Forbes considers it certain that if there be any, it 
must be less than j F -J R 7 of a centigrade degree. 

He repeated Melloni's experiment of the refraction of heathy a rock- 
salt prism, and was enabled to obtain some approximate quantitative 
results, giving the index of refraction for heat in this substance, 
which was a little less than that for light. 

In the course of his second section he describes further experiments 
relative to the question discussed by Melloni, of the separation of the 
effects due to heat and light, especially the peculiarity (before men- 
tioned) attending green light; he tried flames variously colored with 
salts — giving red, yellow, green, and blue light; but found the pro- 
portions of rays transmitted by alum, glass, and rock salt to be nearly 
constant for each substance. 

To this part of the subject Professor Forbes again directed his 
attention, in a later series of experiments, in which he has obtained 
numerical results of the highest value. These are detailed in the last 
part of his third series of Researches on Heat, read before the Royal 
Society of Edinburgh, April 1G, 1838, and published in the Transac- 
tions of that body, vol. xiv. To the earlier portion of this memoir we 
shall refer, under another division of this report. 

The third section relates to the index of refraction for heat of 
different kinds as compared with that for light in the same medium. 
The method of observation adopted is indirect, turning upon the de- 
termination the critical angle of total internal reflection. This was 
ascertained in rock-salt prism, having two angles of 40°, and one of 
100°. The sentient surface of the pile is so placed with regard to the 
prism that it continually receives rays coming from the source of 
heat, after undergoing two refractions and one reflection, whatever be 
the angle of incidence, which is effected by a very simple but 
ingenious mechanical construction. Every kind of precaution to 
avoid error was adopted. And in this way the author obtained a 
series of indices "for the mean quality of the heat most abundantly 
contained in the rays obtained from \arious sources." These values 
are given in a tabic, and are professedly but approximate. Professor 
Forbes has, however, subsequently favored me with an unpublished 
communication, in which he states that while the numbers may be 
regarded as relatively correct, in order to become absolutely so, they 



340 RADIANT HEAT. 

must all be reduced by about .05. This will give the corrected series 
of results as follows : 

Source of heat. Index of refraction 

for rock salt. 

521 

548 
537 
543 
533 
522 
538 
534 
518 
527 
522 



Locatelli lamp 1 

Locatelli lamp, transmitted through alum 1 

Locatelli lamp, transmitted through glass 1 

Locatelli lamp, transmitted through opaque glass 1 

Locatelli lamp, transmitted through opaque mica 1 

Incandescent platina 1 

Incandescent platina transmitted by glass 1 

Incandescent platina transmitted by opaque mica 1 

Brass at 700° 1 

Brass at 700° transmitted by clear mica 1 

Mercury at 450° 1 



Mean luminous rays 1 • 552 



From the experiments described in this section the following gen- 
eral conclusions are deduced: 

1. The mean quality, or that of the more abundant proportion of 
the heat from different sources, varies within narrow limits of refran- 
gibility. 

2. These limits are very narrow, indeed, where the direct heat of 
any source is employed. 

3. All interposed media, (including those impermeable to light, ) so 
far as tried, raise the index of refraction. 

4. All the refrangibilities are inferior to that of the mean luminous 
rays. 

5. The limits of dispersion are open to further inquiry; but the 
dispersion in the case of sources of low temperature appears to be 
smaller than in that from luminous sources. 

Reflection of Heat : Melloni. 

A short paper, by M. Melloni, entitled "Note on the Reflection of 
Heat," was read to the Royal Academy of Sciences, November 2, 
1835, and published in the Ann. de Chim., ix, 402, of Avhich a trans- 
lation appears in Taylor's Sci. Memoirs, Part III, p. 383. 

After referring to the experiments of Leslie, to show that the re- 
flection of heat depends materially on the texture, polish, <fec, of the 
reflecting surfaces, he proceeds to consider what takes place in dia- 
thermanous substances, as in rock salt, where, there being no absorp- 
tion, the difference of the heat transmitted gives the quantity reflected 
at the first and second surfaces. With other media, as glass, rock 
crystal, &c, very thin plates exercise no sensible absorption; hence 
heat, after traversing a thick plate, being intercepted by a very thin 
plate, the loss which this occasions is due solely to the two reflections. 
These considerations afford the means of estimating the intensities of 
reflected heat from different substances; and the author, in conclu- 



RADIANT HEAT. 341 

sion, gives a comparative statement of the reflections from rock crystal 
and copper. 

Analogies of Light and Heat : Melloni and Forbes. 

M. Melloni' s "Observations and Experiments on the Theory of the 
Identity of the Agents which Produce Light and Heat" were read to 
the Academy of Sciences, December 21, 1835, published in the Ann. 
de Chimie, No. 50, p. 418, and translated in Taylor's Scientific Me- 
moirs, Part III, p. 388. 

In this paper the author combats the views of M. Ampere, who had 
proposed some ingenious speculations for explaining, on the theory of 
undulations, the identity of light and heat, the difference of effect being- 
dependent solely on the different wave-lengths, those producing heat 
being supposed longer than those giving rise to light. Athermanous 
media, such as water, intercept the longer waves, but not the shorter. 
Thus the aqueous humor of the eye prevents the retina from being 
affected by heat as well as light. 

The author admits that many phenomena may be sufficiently ac- 
counted for by the mere supposition of the difference of wave-lengths; 
but he mentions some experiments in which he thinks decisively that 
this will not hold good. 

The spectrum formed by a rock-salt prism gives the maximum of 
heat considerably beyond the red end. On interposing water of in- 
creasing thickness, the maximum successively occurs in the red, and 
thence upwards to the green. A similar effect is produced by color- 
less glasses; but with colored glasses, whilst the luminous spectrum is 
variously absorbed and altered, the place of the maximum of heat re- 
mains unaltered, and the decrease from it quite regular. 

Another experiment consists in interposing a diaphanous body, which 
absorbs all the calorific, but only a part of the luminous rays. On 
using in this way a peculiar species of green glass colored by oxide 
of copper, the greenish light transmitted " exhibits no calorific action 
capable of being rendered perceptible by the most delicate thermoscopes, 
even when it is so concentrated by lenses as to rival the direct rays of the 
sun in brilliancy." 

On these points Professor Forbes has made some remarks in the 
London and Edinburgh Journal of Science, March, 1836. 

Such experiments as these, he justly observes, and indeed many 
more simple, clearly show that heat is not light, but nothing more. 
It is a question, then, what is the point really aimed at in these spec- 
ulations. The author agrees with Melloni in the result, "that one 
and the same undulation does not invariably impress the senses of 
sight and feeling at once. The great difficulty is this: to account for 
the equal refrangibility of two waves having different properties." 

New Phenomena of Transmission : Melloni and Forbes. 

It appears by the Comptes Rendus that on September 2, 1839, M. 
Arago communicated to the Academy of Sciences a letter by M. Mel- 
loni, containing some new and highly interesting experiments on the 



342 RADIANT HEAT. 

transmission of radiant heat. He found that rock salt acquires, by 
being smoked, the power of transmitting most easily heat of low 
temperature, or of that kind which is stopped in the greatest propor- 
tion by glass, alum, and (according to his view) all other substances. 

Upon this point Professor Forbes was led to some further considera- 
tions, and thence to fresh series of researches " On the Effect of the 
Mechanical Textures of Screens on the Immediate Transmission of 
Radiant Heat," an account of which he communicated to the Royal 
Society of Edinburgh December 16, 1839. 

Upon the above-mentioned result of Melloni, Professor Forbes re- 
marks that, according to the conclusions indicated in his own Re- 
searches, (third series,) Melloni' s view of the interception of heat of 
low temperature by all substances alike is equivalent to saying that 
substances in general allow only the more refrangible rays to pass, 
or that while rock salt presents the analogy of white glass, by trans- 
mitting all rays in equal proportions, every other substance hitherto 
examined acts on the calorific rays as violet or blue glass does on light, 
absorbing the rays of least refrangibility and transmitting only the 
others. And to this rule Melloni now makes out the first exception, 
or the first analogue of red glass, to be rock salt, having its surface 
smoked. 

Now, Professor Forbes, in his third series, had also pointed out 
another substance having the same property, viz: mica split by heat. 
In March, 1838, he had established, by repeated experiments, that 
the previous transmission of heat through glass, far from rendering 
it less easily absorbable by mica in this state, had a contrary effect; 
and also that heat of low temperature, wholly unaccompanied by light, 
was transmitted almost as freely as that from a lamp previously passed 
through glass. 

Mica not laminated possesses no such property; hence the effect is 
due to the peculiar mechanical condition of the substance, and hence 
it occurred to the author that the effect of smoking the rock salt was 
owing merely to a mechanical change in the surface; he therefore 
proceeded to try the effects of surfaces altered by mechanical means. 

The surface of rock salt being roughened by sand-paper, it trans- 
mitted non-luminous heat more copiously than luminous. Mica 
similarly scratched showed the same result. 

This effect is not attributable to differences in the proportions of 
heat reflected, for in this respect, at a polished surface, all kinds of 
heat are alike, as he had before shown; whilst by direct experiment 
he found that, at least for the higher angles of incidence, reflection 
is most copious from rough surfaces for heat of low temperature, or 
the same kind which is most freely transmitted — proving incontestably 
that the stifling action of rough surfaces is the true cause of the ine- 
quality. 

That there is a real modification of the heat in passing through a 
roughened surface, as well as through laminated mica and the smoky 
film, appears from some direct experiments on heat sifted by these 
different media, which, when transmitted by any one of these, is found 
in a fitter state to pass through each of the others; and this modification 
is the more perceptible as the character of the heat is more removed 



RADIANT HEAT. 343 

from that which these media transmit more readily; that is, as the 
temperature of the source is higher. The following results were 
stated: 

Heat from lamp through Rays out of 100 

smoked rock salt. transmitted. 

Direct 36 

Previously sifted 4>y another plate of smoked rock salt- 44 

Do do laminated mica • • 44 

Do do roughened salt • • 40.\ 

The author then proceeded to try the effect of fine wire gauze and 
fine gratings of cotton thread, but no difference could be detected cor- 
esponding to the different kinds of heat; in every case the intercep- 
tion was proportioned to the fineness of the gauze. 

When fine powders were strewed between plates of rock salt, or fine 
lines were ruled upon the surface, or the surface tarnished by mere 
exposure to the air, the easier transmission of heat of low temperature 
was rendered apparent. 

These effects the author considers as evidently pointing to phenom- 
ena in heat resembling diffraction and periodic colors in light. 

Such was the general sketch of his researches which Professor 
Forbes gave at the period above mentioned. Subsequently (up to 
March, 1840) he continued engaged on the same subjects, and on 
May 15, 1840, laid before the council of the Royal Society, Edinburgh, 
a more extended account of the entire investigations, which appears 
in vol. xv, Part I, of their Transactions, under the title of " A Fourth 
Series of Researches on Heat." Some remarks by M. Melloni appear 
in the Comptes Rendus, March 30, 1840, on the same subject. 

For obtaining a general view of these results the main point to be 
kept in sight is the relation which the transmissibility of each sort of 
heat appears to bear to its refrangibility; and hence the analogy of 
diathermanous media, which transmit the less refrangible heat, to 
transparent' media, which transmit the red rays of light, the trans- 
mission of the more refrangible heat being analogous to that of violet 
light. 

Upon this important point Professor Forbes enlarges in the intro- 
ductory part of his memoir; he justly observes that such a generaliza- 
tion carries us forward a step, by teaching us to refer to the quality 
of refrangibility certain properties of heat which before were con- 
nected only with certain vague characters in the nature of the source 
whence it was derived. Among other things we find, what was long 
suspected, but what Melloni first conclusively proved, that it does not 
essentially depend on the presence or absence of light. This refers 
to his singular discovery of the change produced by the intervention 
of certain screens. 

Heat from any source, if it admit of transmission at all through 
glass, alum, or water, will ultimately have the character of glass-heat, 
alum-heat, or water-heat, just as light from the sun or from a candle 
becomes red, blue, or green, by transmission through glasses of those 
colors. 



344 RADIANT HEAT. 

The author gives, as an illustration, the following scale of different 
kinds of heat, in the order of refrangibility, beginning with the 
lowest : 

1. Heat from ice. 

2. Heat from the hand. 

3. Heat from boiling water. 

4. Heat from a vessel of mercury under its boiling temperature. 

5. Heat from metal, smoked; wholly non-luminous in the dark, 
heated by an alcohol lamp behind it. 

6. Heat from incandescent platina, (over a spirit lamp.) 

7. Heat from an oil lamp, (direct.) 

8. Oil-lamp heat transmitted by common mica. 

9. Oil-lamp heat transmitted by glass, (argand lamp.) 

10. Oil-lamp heat transmitted by citric acid. 

11. Oil-lamp heat transmitted by alum. 

12. Oil-lamp heat transmitted by ice. 

Melloni having shown that a portion of the heat from a luminous 
source is transmitted through certain screens, which are wholly opaque 
to light, it became natural to inquire whether the rays so passed pos- 
sessed the properties of heat from dark sources. This he found to be 
partly the case and partly not. 

The direct test of examining the refrangibility of the heat-rays 
issuing from the screen occurred to Professor Forbes, who found that 
opaque glass and mica act as clear glass and mica do in elevating the 
mean refrangibility of the transmitted heat, an action analogous to that 
of yellow glass upon light. — (See 3d Series, art. 73, 81, &c.) 

But in all this there was nothing exactly equivalent to the action 
of red glass; this, however, was discovered by Melloni, by the happy 
suggestion of covering the surface of rock salt with smoke. 

These remarks introduce more clearly the main object of Professor 
Forbes in following up the inquiry. In the present paper the details 
of many series of experiments are given, and the more precise results 
now established may be stated as follows: 

I. The peculiar character of the film of smoke on the surface of a 
diathermanous medium, analogous to redness in glass for light, was 
found to be possessed by — 1. The simple powder of charcoal. 2. 
Some other dull earthy powders. 3. Surfaces simply dull, or devoid 
of polish. 4. Surfaces irregularly furrowed, as with emery or sand- 
paper. 5. Polished surfaces, on which fine distinct lines have been 
drawn. G. Transparent mica, when mechanically laminated, which, 
as a continuous medium, possesses opposite properties. 

II. All kinds of heat (i. e., of all refrangibilities) seem affected 
indifferently by the following media: 

1. The thinnest leaf-gold, whieh is impervious to any hind of heat. 

2. Fine metallic gratings, which transmit all kinds of heat in a pro- 
portion probably exactly that of the areas of their interstices. 

3. Thread gratings. 

4. Most crystalline bodies in a state of powder, in which case they 
approximate to a condition of opacity for heat. 

III. The following substances, in addition to those before known, 



RADIANT HEAT. 345 

transmit most heat of high temperature or high refrangibility, analo- 
gous to violet light: 

1. Several pure metallic powders. 2. Rock salt, in powder, and 
many other powders, 3. Animal membrane. 

IV. Heat of low temperature is most regularly reflected at imper- 
fectly polished surfaces. It is also, as has been shown above, most 
regularly transmitted. , These facts are in themselves very remarkable, 
and especially so with reference to the theory of heat, and its analogies 
to that of light, particularly with respect to absorption. Some of 
these considerations, which bear on the modulatory doctrine, are 
noticed by the author in section 24. 

The curious question relative to the analogies of the action of 
gratings, &c, to the parallel cases in the interference of light, has 
been recently illustrated by some mathematical investigations by 
Professor Kelland; and the author concludes his memoir with some 
highly ingenious and interesting suggestions for further inquiry bear- 
ing on these topics. 

Radiation of Heat : Hudson. 

At the meeting of the British Association, 1835, Dr. Hudson, of 
Dublin, communicated some researches on radiant heat, of which 
notices appear in the report of that meeting. — (p. 163, and Proceed- 
ings of Sections, p. 9.) A paper by the same author on the subject 
is printed also in the London and Edinburgh Journal of Science, vol. 
viii, p. 109. 

In the paper last mentioned, besides making some critical remarks 
on the results of Melloni and others, the author describes a very simple 
and effective mode of arranging the apparatus for experiments on dia- 
thermancy with the thermo-multiplier, so as completely to exclude the 
influence of secondary radiation. The source of heat is a canister of 
hot water, which can be so placed in two different positions that it is 
exactly at the same distance, and presents the same surface; but in 
one case the pile receives the heat both direct and secondary; in the 
other only the secondary, derived from the heating of the screen. 

In his communication to the British Association the same author 
examines principally certain questions bearing on the supposed radia- 
tion of cold, and the theory of Leslie. These were performed by a 
differential thermometer, and a concave reflector, with a hollow back, 
so that the mirror itself could be heated to any required point by 
filling the hollow with hot water. The source of heat was a canister 
of water, with one surface varnished, another metallic. 

The main results were as follows: 

1. The mirror being at the temperature of the air, and the canister 
cooled btloiv it, the varnished side produced a greater cooling effect on 
the focal bulb than the plain, in the same ratio as that in which it 
produced a greater heating effect when the canister was heated above 
the air. 

2. The mirror being heated to 200° Fahrenheit, and the canister 
at the temperature of the air, both bulbs were so placed as to be 



346 RADIANT HEAT. 

equally affected by the heat of the mirror; when the canister dis- 
played a cooling effect, the varnished side being the most efficacious. 

3. Again, with the same conditions, except that the canister was 
heated 10° or 12° above the air, it was placed at different distances; 
at near distances it showed a cooling effect; at a certain point this 
ceased, and beyond it it began to produce a slight heating effect. 

4. Some attempts were made to try the effects while the bulb was 
kept cool by evaporation; the canister being also cooled below the 
air, the cooling of the bulb was increased beyond what took place 
when the canister was at the temperature of the air. These experi- 
ments were confessedly imperfect, from the difficulty of regulating 
the evaporation. 

The author considers them as favorable to the theory of the radia- 
tion of cold; he also refers to them as in some degree confirmatory of 
Leslie's view of pulsation. 

The most remarkable result is that of case 2; it seems to prove that 
a mirror, when heated, will still reflect rays of heat, thrown upon it 
from a source of much lower temperature. 

The results are viewed by the author as supporting the theory of 
the radiation of cold. I believe the doctrines of that theory may in 
all cases be equally well expressed in other language, in conformity 
with the view to which I referred in my former report, [p. 300.] 

Dr. Hudson has speculated with much ingenuity on another point 
of great interest, the different radiating powers of different surfaces. 
Understanding by the surface a certain physical thickness, ho con- 
ceives the radiating power to depend on the capacity for heat of the sub- 
stance of the lamina, which seems perfectly conformable to the gen- 
eral law of the equilibrium of temperature. 

Influence of Surface and Color on Radiation: Stark and Bache. 

• 

The influence of the color of a surface on its powers for absorbing 
and radiating heat is a question which has long attracted notice, and 
has often been involved in no small confusion from false analogies. 
The sun's rays, and, in general, what is called luminous heat, are 
absorbed by surfaces (cceteris paribus) in proportion to the darkness of 
their colors ; but it has been too hastily assumed that the same would 
hold good with non-luminous heat, and still more groundlessly, that 
the color would influence the radiating power of the surface ; the 
texture of the surface, however, is known to exert a powerful influ- 
ence. These distinctions are fully insisted on in my former report. 

Since that period, however, the subject has been taken up by Dr. 
Stark, who, in an elaborate paper in the Phil. Trans, for 1833, details 
a number of ingenious experiments, which he conceives support the 
doctrine of the influence of color, not only on the absorption of dark 
heat, but even on odors, miasma, &c. 

The object of the present report is not controversial ; I will there- 
fore merely state that I discussed in detail Dr. Stark's reasonings, in 
a paper published in the Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, Oc- 
tober, 1834, where, though allowing the value and accuracy of the 



RADIANT HEAT. 347 

experiments, I have expressed my objections to the inferences made 
from them. 

It appears in general that the texture and nature of the surface most 
unquestionably exert a great influence. Now, wherever, there is a 
difference in the color, there must be either a difference in the mechani- 
cal structure of the surface, or some new matter added or abstracted. 
When, therefore, we consider the changes which thus occur, we can- 
not infer that the effect is not owing to these instead of to color as 
such. The question, however, is a highly curious one, and worthy 
the most accurate investigation. 

Having in some measure called attention to it in my former report, 
it was with no small gratification that I found the subject had excited 
interest, not only in this country, but also in America ; and to Pro- 
fessor Bache (since appointed principal of Girard College) we owe 
by far the most extensive and valuable series of experiments on this 
important but difficult point of inquiry ; they are given at length in 
the Journal of the Franklin Institute, November, 1835. 

The notices of these experiments which had been published in this 
country not appearing to convey adequate notions of their nature or 
value, I endeavored to bring them more prominently forward by 
some remarks in the Physical Section of the British Association at 
Liverpool in 1837.* In my former report I had thrown out some 
suggestions both as to the want of such a series of experiments, and 
as to the fundamental difficulty arising from the variety of causes 
which must influence the results ; but more especially the differences 
of thickness in the coatings, which in the ordinary mode of operating 
could not be estimated, yet must greatly modify the effects. 

With reference to the necessity of equalizing the coatings, Mr. 
Bache refers to an important observation of Leslie, viz: that radia- 
tion takes place not merely from the actual surface, but from a certain 
depth, or lamina of the surface, the thickness of which is quite appre- 
ciable in good radiators, and differs for different substances. 

Proceeding upon this fact, the author justly observes, that "the 
radiating powers of substances would not be rightly compared by 
equalizing their thicknesses upon a given surface, nor by equalizing 
their weight ; but by ascertaining for each substance that thickness beyond 
which radiation does not take place. ' ' 

It is, then, on the original application of this fundamental idea that 
his whole series of experiments is conducted. 

Upon this principle the first object was to obtain some data as to 
thicknesses of different pigments necessary to be employed. 

The method adopted throughout was to employ tin cylinders of the 
same size, filled with hot water, and having thermometers inserted 
through a hole in the top, while their surfaces were coated with the 
different substances under trial. The radiation was estimated by the 
observed rates of cooling. 

To find the critical thickness of the coating just spoken of, the time 
of cooling a certain number of degrees was accurately observed, first 

° See Report, 1837. Sectional Proceedings, p. 20. 



348 



RADIANT HEAT. 



with a thin coating, then with an additional layer of the pigment, and 
so on, until it was found that additional thickness did not increase 
the rate of radiation, but began to diminish it ; thus each coating 
was adjusted precisely to that thickness at which it produced its 
maximum effect. 

Every precaution to insure accuracy appears to have been most 
diligently taken, and several series of preliminary experiments are 
recorded for the purpose of ascertaining the limits within which the 
precision of the results may be relied on. A standard cylinder, coated 
with aurum musivum (as being found not liable to tarnish or alteration,) 
was used in all the experiments, and the effect of each coating com- 
pared with this under similar circumstances. 

The results of different sets of experiments are given in the tabular 
form, and apply to coatings of a great variety of substances differing 
in their chemical nature, as well as in roughness, texture, and color. 
The following table is extracted as fully exhibiting the general result 
of all the experiments; the substances being arranged in the order of 
their radiating powers, beginning with the JiigJiest : 



Nature of coating. 


Color. 


Surface. 




Blue 






Blue 




India ink 


Black 


Bichromate of potash 




Streaked; 6mooth streaks. .... 




Black 




Alkanet 




Not shining, but uniform..... 


Carb of lead in oil of lavender 


White 




Sulphuret of lead 


Black 




Blue 




Carb. magnesia 


White 




Carb. lead, in gum 


White .. 






Red 




Vermilion 






White bluish 




Golden sulphurate of antimony 

Indigo 




Blue 




Cochineal 






Red lead 






Sulph. baryta. 


White 




Plumbago 


Black 




Chrom. lead 


Yellow ............. 


Gamboge 






Bisulphuret of tin 













It thus distinctly appears that through so extensive and varied a 
range of differences in the state of the radiating surface no determinate 
relation subsists between the radiating poiver and either darkness of 
color or any other distinctive character of the coating employed; not 
even its roughness or smoothness. 



RADIANT HEAT. 349 



Repulsive power of Heat: Powell. 

Closely connected with the radiation of heat is its property of exert- 
ing or exciting a repulsive force between particles or masses of mat- 
ter at small though sensible distances. 

Such a property was first announced by Libri in 1824; and was 
further examined by Fresnel {Ann. de Chim., xxix, 57, 107) and Saigcy, 
[Bull. Meth., xi, 1G7;) but their results seem to have been open to 
some doubt. 

A new interest attached to the subject from the reference made to 
this property by Professor Forbes, (in a paper read to the Royal 
Society of Edinburgh, March, 1833, and since published in their 
Transactions, vol. xii,) in explanation of certain vibrations of heated 
metals, first observed by Mr. Trevelyan. 

A paper from me was read to the Royal Society June 19, 1834, and 
printed in the Philosophical Transactions, 1834, Part II, containing 
an account of experiments on a different principle from any of the 
preceding, which appeared to furnish a decisive proof of the fact of 
repulsion. 

The essential principle is the employment of the colors of thin 
plates, as a measure of the separation produced between two surfaces, 
by the repulsive action of heat applied to one of them. I also made 
observations on several particulars attending the mode of action, both 
in that paper and in a communication to the British Association at the 
Edinburgh meeting.* 

Formation of Ice: Farquharson. 

An interesting case, in which the principles of the theory of radiant 
heat are related to the explanation of natural phenomena, occurs in 
the instance of the formation of ice exclusively at the surface of still 
water, but occasionally at the bottom of running water. This point 
excited attention some years ago, and was partially discussed by Mr. 
Knight in the Philosophical Transactions, 1816. Mr. MacKeevor and 
and Mr. Eisdale subsequently investigated the theory, and M. Arago 
gave a discussion of the whole question in the Annuaire, 1833, and 
in the Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, vol. xv, p. 128; lastly, 
a highly curious paper appeared in the Philosophical Transactions for 
1835, Part II, "On the ice formed under peculiar circumstances at 
the bottom of running water," by the Rev. J. Farquharson, F. R. S., 
of Alford, Aberdeenshire. In this paper the author details various 
new and highly interesting particulars as to the mode of the formation 
of the spongy masses of spiculse of ice at the bottom of certain rivers 
in his neighborhood, and the peculiar circumstances under which 
alone it is formed. He examines acutely the several explanations 
which have been suggested, which he shows are all insufficient to 
explaiu the whole of the circumstances, and then proceeds to suggest 

* See Report, 1834, p. 549, and Dr. Thomson's Records of Science. 



350 RADIANT HEAT. 

his own theory, which is grounded essentially on the assumption that 
the radiation of heat from substances at the bottom goes on through the 
water ; and partly, also, on the supposed greater radiation from dark- 
colored surfaces. Neither of these assumptions, it appears to me, are 
admissible ; the former, especially, is 'directly at variance with the 
experiments of Melloni. Some suggestions, at least, towards a theory 
not open to these objections are given by an anonymous writer in the 
Magazine of Popular Science, vol. i, p. 157. 

DIVISION II. — POLARIZED HEAT. 

Polarization of Heat : Forbes. 

The original statement by Berard, of the polarization of heat by 
reflection, and the attempts to verify it, are mentioned in my former 
report.* In 1833 Melloni tried to repeat the experiment with tour- 
malines, but unsuccessfully, t 

In 1834 Nobili attempted it by reflection, employing the thermo- 
multiplier, but without success. | The disbelief in such a result, at 
least with dark heat, seems now to have prevailed generally. Mrs. 
Somerville, in the second edition of her " Connexion of the Sciences," 
(in 1833,) speaks of it as altogether without experimental proof. 

Professor Forbes took up the inquiry in November, 1834; and in 
his first memoir, already referred to in section 2, announced his com- 
plete success, after having in the first instance failed from the influ- 
ence of secondary radiation, which disguised the real effect. 

(1.) He proved distinctly the stoppage of a considerable proportion 
of heat when the tourmalines were crossed, not only with a lamp, 
but with brass heated below luminosity. 

(2.) In the third section of the same memoir he details his researches 
on the polarization of heat by refraction and reflection. In the former 
he employed piles of mica, and through these found even dark heat 
very freely transmitted at the polarizing angle. Without (in this 
stage of the inquiry) aiming at quantitative results, he found in 
general that the proportion of heat polarized varied with the source 
in the following order, beginning with the highest: 

Argand lamp. 

Locatelli lamp. 

Spirit lamp. 

Incandescent platina. 

Hot brass, about 700° Fahrenheit. 

Mercury, 500° in crucible. 

Water under 200°. 
(3.) The polarization of heat by reflection at the surface of a pile 
of plates of mica was also established; and with regard to the reflection 
from glass, Professor Forbes has also remarked that, from the known 



s Pages 301, 312. 

f Second Memoir, Ann. de Chim,, 55. Taylor's Scientific Memoirs, Part I, p. 59. 

j BtbW'th. Univ., September, 1834. 



RADIANT HEAT. 351 

proportions of heat reflected, the quantity, even at the maximum 
which would reach the thermoscope after two reflections, would be so 
extremely small that no difference of effect in the two rectangular 
positions could really have been perceptible in the form of the experi- 
ment adopted by Berard. 

(4.) In the fourth section the author enters on the modifications 
which polarized heat undergoes by the intervention of crystallized 
plates between the polarizing and analysing parts of the apparatus — 
an inquiry suggested by the obvious analogy in the case of light. In 
the crossed position, when polarized heat is stopped, (if the analogy 
hold good,) the intervention of a plate of double refracting crystal 
would restore the effect. This apparently paradoxical result was fully 
verified with plates of mica, and subsequently with selenite and other 
substances, not only in the case of luminous sources, but even with 
water below the boiling temperature. Of 157 experiments, with 
three different mica plates, only one gave a neutral and one a nega- 
tive result. Of these 157, 92 were made with heat below luminosity. 

The apparent paradox was increased by the circumstance that a 
thin plate of mica which "depolarized" but feebly seemed to stop 
more heat than a thick plate which depolarized more completely. 

The main fact was ascertained for the first time on December 16, 
1834. The professor justly censures the use of the term ' ' depolarize," 
and suggests " cfopolarize" as preferable. 

(5.) From the result thus unequivocally established, a train of highly 
curious consequences follow. We have hence, as direct corollaries, 
the double refraction of the rays of heat by the mica, and their inter- 
ference according to the same laws as those of light. Hence also follow 
the constancy of the sum of the intensities of the rays in the rectan- 
gular positions, or their comjAementary character, agreeably to the 
formulas of Fresnel for light. This again involves their retardation, 
according to the well-known principles of the undulatory theory; and 
hence, from Fresnel' s formulas, we are assured theoretically of the 
existence of circular and elliptic polarization in the rays of heat under 
the appropriate conditions. We have thus also the means of deducing 
the length of a wave of heat. 

The whole of this most important series of investigations was 
completed between November, 1834, and January, 1835, and their 
originality and priority are thus placed beyond dispute. The main 
practical improvement (which led to all the rest of the discoveries) 
was the employment of the piles of mica for polarizing the heat. In 
the summer of 1835, Professor Forbes was at Paris; and finding both 
M. Biot and M. Melloni sceptical as to his results, he exhibited them 
with mica piles, which he himself prepared on the occasion, and 
which he left in M. Melloni' s hands. 

In these experiments the utmost care was taken to guard against 
all the sources of fallacy from secondary radiation, &c. ; but, as Pro- 
fessor Forbes observed, these always tended to disguise and not to 
exaggerate the results. One consideration of this kind arising from 
the mere mathematical question of the different amount of heat which 
might be radiated from one pile to the other in the two rectangular 



352 EADIANT HEAT. 

positions, (regarded merely as a mathematical problem,) was proposed 
by myself at the Dublin meeting of the British Association, 1835, 
but was completely shown to be inapplicable as a practical objection 
by Professor Forbes, in a short paper in the London and Edinburgh 
Journal of Science, November, 1835; and further by direct experi- 
ment described in the same journal for March, 1836. 

Circular and Elliptical Polarization of Heat: Forbes. 

On the 1st of February, 1836, Professor Forbes announced to the 
Royal Society of Edinburgh, that he had that day succeeded in establish- 
ing the circular polarization of heat, even when unaccompanied by light, 
by direct experiment. It has been already noticed, that theoretically 
this would follow from the laws of depolarization. But in the present 
instance, Professor Forbes, following up the analogies of Fresnel with 
regard to the internal reflection of light, found the very same thing 
verified with heat by similar internal reflection in a rhomb of rock salt. 
where the plane of reflection is inclined 45° to the plane of primitive 
polarization. 

A short notice of this discovery appears in a paper by the author, 
in the London and Edinburgh Journal of Science, March, 1836, in 
which he also states the inference from the same considerations, that 
the waves are of the same kind as those of light, viz: formed by 
transverse vibrations. 

In a paper reported in the proceedings of the Royal Society of 
Edinburgh, March 21, 1836, and printed along with the second series 
of Professor Forbes' s Researches in the London and Edinburgh 
Journal of Science, vol. xii, that philosopher describes some addi- 
tional results which he has obtained respecting the polarization of 
heat. These are briefly as follows: 

1st. Heat polarized in any plane, and then reflected from the sur- 
face of a refracting medium, changes its plane of polarization in a 
manner similar to what obtains in light; that is, the plane is on one 
side of the plane of reflection up to the maximum polarizing angle, 
and on the other side after passing that limit. This mode of deter- 
mining the polarizing angle offers some advantages over the more 
direct methods. 

2d. Metals polarize heat very feebly by reflection. Yet the effect 
is perceptible, and increases, through a considerable range of inci- 
dences, but it does not seem to attain a maximum; in this respect it 
seems to agree with what Sir D. Brewster has remarked in light, viz: 
that the maximum is greatest for the least refrangible rays, heat 
being less refrangible than light. 

3d. Heat polarized in a plane inclined 45° to the plane of reflec- 
tion at silver, has its nature changed, as in light, and presents the 
conditions of elliptic polarization, though the ellipse is much more 
elongated. 

4th. Two reflections from silver increase the polarizing effect of 
metals, and an increased tendency to circular polarization under the 



RADIANT HEAT. 353 

conditions of the last case. The effect increases with the obliquity 
of incidence. 

All these results have been verified in the case of obscure as well 
as luminous sources of heat. 

On the 15th Feb., 1836, the Keith prize was awarded to Professor 
Forbes by the Royal Society of Edinburgh; the Vice President, Dr. 
Hope, stating-, in the course of a most able address delivered on the 
occasion, that several members of the council, as well as himself, had 
personally witnessed the satisfactory verification of the main facts an- 
nounced before the medal was adjudged. 

Polarization of Heat from different sources: Melloni. 

M. Melloni' s first memoir " on the Polarization of Heat," was read 
to the Academy of Sciences in January, 1836; it appears in the Ann. 
de Ghim., lxi, April, 1836, and is translated in Taylor's Scientific 
Memoirs, Part II, p. 325. 

The author commences with a fair review of the previous investi- 
gations on the subject, admitting Professor Forbes' s discovery,, but 
remarking the very small amount of the effect in the case of obscure 
heat. 

He adopts the supposition that "the different temperatures of the 
calorific rays are to radiant heat what the different colors of the lumin- 
ous rays are to light." The latter, he observes, are all equally 
polarizable, and thus he is led to regard the difference of polarizability 
in the rays of heat as rather apparent than real. His object then, in 
this memoir, is to examine the question of the reality of the polariza- 
tion of heat, and of the equality of the effect in different sorts of heat. 

After some considerations on the general natur% of the apparatus to 
be employed, and overcoming the difficulty arising from the small 
total intensity of the rays, by concentrating them by means of a rock- 
salt lens, he proceeds to detail his several series of experiments, the 
results of which he gives in the form of tables : 

Table I gives the' different indices of polarization obtained with 
nine sorts of tourmalines of different color, the source of heat being 
a locatelli lamp. 

He then tried the experiment, taking that pair of tourmalines which 
gave the greatest effect in the last set, with plates of various sub- 
stances interposed between the lamp and the apparatus. Of these, 
opaque black glass rendered the effect nearly insensible, other solids 
and liquids of various degrees of transparency produced effects of 
different magnitude. 

In Table II these results are registered, and the properties of the 
media, in this respect, were found to follow the same proportion as 
their diathermancy. 

The author considers the difference of the tourmalines in this 
respect as referrible to the same cause. 

Table III gives similar results with another pair of tourmalines, in 
which case the proportions are found to differ. 

In Table IV are given the indices of polarization with four different 



354 RADIANT HEAT. 

pairs of tourmalines, each employed with different sources of heat) 
viz: the locatelli lamp, argand lamp, incandescent platina, and copper 
at 400°. The effect in the latter case was very small. 

In recapitulating his views, the author refers to the unequal absorp- 
tion of the two pencils in different tourmalines, as causing the 
differences observed. 

A further paper by the same author, on Tourmaline, &c, in the 
Ann. cle Chim., April, 1836, displays much ingenuity, but nothing of 
peculiar novelty or fundamental importance. 

From the Comptes Rendus, 183G, i, 194, it appears that on the 15th 
February, 1836, M. Arago communicated to the Academy of Sciences 
a letter from Professor Forbes, announcing his discovery of the circular 
polarization of heat of the rock-salt rhomb. 

At the next meeting of the same body, '(February 22,) MM. Biot 
and Melloni stated that in following up Professor Forbes' s experi- 
ment, they had found that quartz possessed the same "rotative" quality 
for heat as for light. 

Dr. Thomson, in the second edition of his Treatise on Heat, &c, 
(1840,) while giving an outline of the discoveries of Forbes and 
Melloni, has by no means clearly distinguished the share borne by 
each of those philosophers in the investigation. In particular, with 
respect to the fact of polarization, he has not given Professor Forbes the 
credit so unquestionably due to him for the priority of the discovery. 
He observes, (p. 139,) "In the earlier experiments of Melloni, he did 
not find that the rays of heat were polarized when passed through the 
tourmaline. But he afterwards found that this conclusion was hasty, 
and that the tourmaline polarizes heat as well as light. The truth of 
this statement is shown very clearly by Professor Forbes. They also 
polarized heat by plates of mica, and also by reflection," &c. 

These expressions certainly assign the priority to Melloni. as well 
as an equal share in the subsequent results, both of which we have 
seen are greatly at variance with the truth. 

Further Researches: Forbes. 

Professor Forbes' s second series of Researches on Heat was read to 
the Royal Society of Edinburgh, May 2, 1836, and printed both in the 
Edinburgh Transactions, vol. xiii, and in the London and Edinburgh 
Journal of Science, vol. xii, 1838. 

The author remarks at the outset, that in his former memoir he had 
confined himself to the establishment of the general facts of the 
polarization and ^'polarization of heat, without pretending to accurate 
quantitative results; he now proceeds, therefore, to a more detailed 
investigation of the subject, with a view to more precise numerical 
determinations. 

The first section relates to the methods of observation employed, 
and the examination of the values of the degrees of the galvanometer, 
Avhich, for the most part, do not indicate equal increments of force. 
Two tables are given. By the first, the statical deviations of the 
needle are reduced so as to be measures of the force producing them; 



RADIANT HEAT. 355 

"by the second, the dynamical effect, or arc, moved over by the initial 
disturbing action, is reduced to the final or statical effect, and thence 
to the true measure of heat. Several peculiarities attendant on the 
use of the galvanometer are likewise discussed. 

In section 2 the observations formerly published on the polarizing 
action of tourmaline are confirmed, including the case where heat, 
entirely unaccompanied by light, was employed. In this case, the 
author allows, the greatest difficulty was to be encountered. 

The third section treats of the laws of the polarization of heat by 
refraction or transmission. Professor Forbes expressly observes that 
his former results were not held out as numerically precise; and with 
reference to Melloni's conclusion, ' ; that all kinds of heat are equally 
polarizable at the same incidence," he confirms his former view of 
the incorrectness of this inference by a great number of experiments, 
which show that the heat from non-luminous sources is less polariza- 
ble by a given plate of mica, at a given angle of incidence, than that 
accompanied by light. 

These experiments were performed with plates of mica, prepared in 
a way discovered by himself, to which reference is made (though with- 
out describing the process) in a paper before quoted in the London 
and Edinburgh Journal of Science, March, 1836. The method con- 
sists in applying sudden heat to a thick plate of mica, which splits 
into an infinity of extremely thin films, so thin as to be incapable of 
retaining heat; these form polarizing piles of great energy. With 
one pair of such plates the author obtained the following per centages 
of heat stopped, when the planes of refraction of the two plates were 
in the rectangular position: 

Source of heat. Kays out of 100 polarized. 

Argand lamp 72 to 74 

Incandescent platina 72 

Brass about 700° 63 

Brass with glass screen 72 

Mercury in crucible at 410° 48 

Boiling water 44 

These observations were repeatedly made, and verified by others 
with other pairs of plates. The results agree with the analogy of 
light; those lowest in the scale being the cases of the least refran- 
gible rays. 

In the fourth section the law of polarization by reflection is dis- 
cussed. A number of reflecting surfaces were tried, and split mica 
was preferred. The amount of polarization by reflection at a given 
angle is shown to vary with the source of heat; and it is probable 
that the kinds of heat do not rank in the same order when the angle 
is changed. This is the case with light. The change of the plane 
of polarization by subsequent reflection is similar to that which occurs 
when light is used. 

The circular polarization of heat by total internal reflection is dis- 
cussed in the fifth section. This, as before remarked, is a pheno- 



356 RADIANT HEAT 

menon really produced in the experiments on dipolarization, if the 
mica be of a suitable thickness. The direct experiment with rhombs 
of rock-salt has been already mentioned also. The author here gives 
a detailed account of them, and the laws of the phenomena deducible, 
in which the precise analogy with those of light is preserved. 

Equal Polar izability of Heat from different sources: Melloni. 

Melloni' s second memoir on the Polarization of Heat appears to be 
founded on the second part of his communication to the Royal Academy 
of Sciences in January, 183G. It is printed in the Ann. de China. , lxv, 
May, 1S37, and the translation in Taylor's Scientific Memoirs, Part VI. 

The principal points of these extensive researches may be reduced 
to the following- heads : 

(1.) Referring to Professor Forbes' s researches, first series, Melloni 
contends that the differences of polarizability in the heat from 
different sources there exhibited are in fact due to differences of 
secondary radiation from the heating of the mica piles, and subse- 
quently appeals to Forbes's second series, in which he conceives the 
approach to equality is much nearer, as this source of error was more 
avoided. 

At lower temperatures of the source, he observes that mica transmits 
less heat in proportion, and therefore absorbs more; thus the secondary 
radiation is greater, and the apparent difference in the two positions, 
or index of polarization, is less. 

(2.) He remarks that Professor Forbes had found the heat from a 
dark source, after transmission through glass, to become as polarizable 
as that from incandescent platina, whereas he considers that the glass 
plate absorbed the greater part of those rays which otherwise would 
have heated the piles, and that thus the apparent polarization was 
increased. 

(3.) Melloni describes his apparatus, and the precautions for avoiding 
secondary radiation, &c, employing piles of split mica, and throwing 
parallel rays on them by means of a rock-salt lens, having its principal 
focus at the source of heat. 

He then enters upon the details of his results, in several series, 
with piles of different numbers of laminaj, and at different inclinations 
to the axis, (the source of heat being a lamp,) giving in each case the 
calorific transmissions in the rectangular positions, or proportions of 
heat polarized. These are comprised in a series of eight tables, from 
which the author derives the following conclusions: 

I. The proportion of heat polarized increases as the inclination of 
the piles is diminished. 

II. It attains a maximum at a certain inclination. 

III. This inclination is greater as the number of laminaa is increased. 
He points out the close agreement of these results with the phe- 
nomena of light according to Brewster and Biot. 

(4.) The author pursues a further series of experiments on polar- 
ization by reflection, and arrives at the conclusion that the angle of 



RADIANT HEAT. 357 

complete polarization by reflection is very nearly the same for light 
and for heat. 

(5.) If any diathermanous substance be interposed between the 
luminous source and the piles, the index of polarization does not vary 
with the substance employed. 

This, he contends, proves that the nature of the heat docs not alter 
its polarizability. 

But also from direct experiment with the radiations from different 
sources he makes the same inference, employing, instead of a lamp, 
incandescent platina, metal heated to 400°, or boiling water, with the 
same results of uniform polarizability. 

He maintains that the difference of polarizability by refraction, 
arising from the different refrangibility of the rays of heat, is too mi- 
nute to be sensible. 

And for all experiments on obscure heat he proposes to substitute 
as the source a black glass heated by flame. 

(G.) On the depolarization he refers to Forbes' s experiments, in 
which he contends the difference in the rectangular position is very 
small, but nearly equal with different sources. 

He repeats the experiment, with black glass interposed, and finds 
the effects much greater, and nearly equal in the different cases. 

He endeavors to explain Forbes' s result of the difference with dif- 
ferent sources, by secondary radiation. 

Further, by the same method, (of interposing a black glass,) he 
finds the equal depolarkabiliiy of every kind of heat. 

In an attempt to pursue the analogy of the tints of depolarized light, 
he acknowledges a failure, and thence considers the interference of 
calorific rays as not yet proved. 

Upon these investigations the following remarks may be offered: 

Under the first head, it should be recollected that Professor Forbes's 
first memoir was avowedly only directed to ascertain general facts, 
not numerical values; while, with regard to the more precise results 
of the second memoir, it would appear from the details there given 
that the secondary radiation could not affect the results. The screen 
between the source and the piles was removed only during the few 
seconds required for observing the first or impulsive arc of vibration, 
the time of which was wholly insufficient for the conduction of heat; 
besides, such an effect was disproved by direct experiment, as men- 
tioned above. — (p. 352.) 

Of the second point we shall presently have to notice a complete 
investigation by Professor Forbes. 

As to the third, with this construction, the heat absorbed by the 
mica was' very trifling; but by the more improved process since used 
by Professor Forbes, (p. 355,) we have seen this source of error is 
wholly got rid of. The employment of a pencil of parallel rays does 
not seem, upon consideration, materially to increase the intensity. 

The fourth point is no more than what has been already established 
by Professor Forbes. 

With respect to the fifth head, (including the most important part 
of these researches,) it must be observed, that the differences in the 



358 RADIANT HEAT. 

nature of the heat obtained by the intervention of diathermanons sub- 
stances are not the same as those between heat from luminous and 
dark sources. And further, in the experiments mentioned with ra- 
diations from different sources, no numerical results are stated. On 
this point we shall presently notice some more detailed researches of 
Professor Forbes. 

The sixth point, on the subject of depolarization, is confessedly one 
of the most delicate in the whole inquiry; but for the same reasons as 
before, the effect of secondary radiation cannot be referred to as ca- 
pable of having produced the differences observed. 

Unequal Polarizability of Heat from different sources : Forbes. 

Professor Forbes' s third series of Researches of Heat appears in 
vol. xiv of the Edinburgh Transactions, having been read before the 
Royal Society of Edinburgh, April 16, 1838. It is also printed in 
the London and Edinburgh Journal of Science, vol. xiii. 

In the first section the author discusses the variable polarizability 
of the different kinds of heat. The establishment of this fact was his 
object in one portion of his second memoir. But these investigations 
having been objected to by some, and opposite results (as we have 
seen) obtained by Melloni, the author now repeated the inquiry with 
every precaution. He rendered the rays parallel by a rock-salt lens, 
as Melloni had done, and operated at a sufficient distance from the 
pile; still the differences in the rectangular positions, when different- 
sorts of heat were employed, were as unequal as formerly. 

Having varied the experiments in every possible way, he still 
comes to the same conclusion as before, and gives the following results: 

Source of heat. Lays out of 100 polarized. 

Argand lamp 78 

Locatelli lamp 75 to 77 

Incandescent platina 74 to 76 

Incandescent platina with glass screen 80 to 82 

Alcohol flame 78 

Brass, at 700° 66.6 

Brass, with mica screen 80 

Mercury in crucible, at 450° 48 

Boiling water 44 

Melloni' s opposite result of apparent uniform polarizability, the 
author then shows, must necessarily arise from the use of mica piles, 
consisting of a number of distinct plates superposed. Such a thick- 
ness of mica modifies heat from dark sources in such a way as to give 
the portion which it transmits the same character as to polarizability 
as luminous heat; whereas Mr. Forbes's results were obtained by the 
use of mica split by heat, (as before described,) which includes so 
many surfaces within a very small thickness that the polarized heat 
is comparatively unaltered in its character. He shows directly that 
these piles transmit heat from a lamp sifted by glass, and from brass 



r RADIANT HEAT. 359 

at 700° in nearly equal proportions, while mica .010 inch thick trans- 
mits live times less of the latter than of the former. 

The second section relates to the dipolarization of heat. Pursuing 
the methods given in the first series, the author ascertained the pro- 
portion of heat dipolarized by five different thicknesses of mica. 
From the numerical results thus obtained he deduces the value of the 
expression in Fresnel's formula for the retardation divided by the 
wave-length, either of which quantities being assumed, the other 
becomes known. 

In pursuing this calculation, the author finds that if the numerator 
(or difference of paths) be assumed to be the same as in light the 
length of a wave of heat would result three times as great as that for 
red light. 

Upon this he is led into some important considerations bearing on 
the theory of undulations as applicable to heat. 

Almost exactly similar numerical results were obtained for the heat 
from an argand lamp, from incandescent platina, and from brass heated 
to 700°. 

At the anniversary meeting of the Royal Society of London, Novem- 
ber 30, 1838, the Rumford Medal was adjudged to Professor Forbes, 
"for his discoveries and investigations of the polarization and double 
refraction of heat." And in the report of the council announcing the 
award a brief but appropriate testimony is given to the value of these 
researches. 

Intensity of Reflected Heat: Forbes. 

On March 18, 1839, Professor Forbes communicated some remarks 
to the Royal Society of Edinburgh on the Intensity of Reflected Light 
and Heat. 

The theoretical law for the intensity of reflected light, originally 
proposed by Fresnel, has been confirmed on quite different grounds 
by the mathematical investigations of Mr. Green and Professor Kel- 
land. Yet scarcely any attempt has been made toward its verification 
by direct experiment, except in the critical cases for polarized light 
originally assumed as the basis of the formula, and a few intermediate 
photometrical determinations by M. Arago. The uncertainty attend- 
ing all photometry led Professor Forbes to conceive (about the end 
of 1837) that perhaps some confirmation might be obtained by ascer- 
taining the law which prevails with respect to the intensities of heat 
in the corresponding cases; an analogy which seemed extremely pro- 
bable from the facts already ascertained relative to the change of 
polarization, &c, before noticed. 

In December, 1837, he made some first attempts, which were not 
altogether satisfactory. In the following winter he resumed the sub- 
ject, and by a suitable apparatus for measuring the angles of incidence 
he endeavored to measure the intensity of heat reflected from surfaces 
of glass, steel, and silver; and though the results can hardly be yet 
considered completely accurate, yet in the case of glass the approxi- 
mation to Fresnel's law is closer than any as yet exhibited hy photo- 



360 RADIANT HEAT.% 

metrical observations; while the observations accord much better with 
the law of Fresnel than with that deduced by Mr. Potter. In the 
instance of metals Professor Forbes considers Mr. Potter's discover}' 
verified, that the reflection is less intense at higher angles of inci- 
dence; he has not yet been able to verify Professor Maccullagh's 
inference, that it has a minimum before reaching 90°; and, lastly, he 
observes that the quantity of heat reflected irom metals is so much 
greater than Mr. Potter's estimate for light as to lead him to suspect 
that all that gentleman's photometric ratios are too small; this would, 
nearly account for their deviations from Fresnel' s law. He has also 
made some attempts for verifying that law by observations on heat 
polarized in opposite planes. 

Mr. Potter, it is well known, mainly founds his objections to the 
undulatory theory on the discrepancy between Fresnel' s law for the 
intensities of reflected light and his own photometrical determinations. 
He has therefore naturally been led into some controversial remarks 
on Professor Forbes' s results in a paper in the London and Edinburgh 
Journal of Science, to which Professor Forbes has replied. 

Considering that the whole inquiry is as yet confessedly in an 
incomplete state, any further observations upon it in this place would 
be premature. 

Conclusion. 

In thus reviewing the different points of inquiry which have been 
of late pursued relative to radiant heat, and the several important 
discoveries with which that research has been rewarded, I have for 
the most part preserved, under each head, the chronological order. 

The progress of discovery is here, I trust, too clearly marked to 
allow any real ground for these questions as to priority and originality, 
which have given rise to so much unhappy controversy between rival 
philosophers, or to the less open but equally lamentable manifesta- 
tions of jealousy, in ambiguous expressions of claims, into which men 
of science have been sometimes betrayed. The dispassionate reviewer 
of the history of discovery at once best avoids all such controversial 
topics, and fulfils the demands of critical justice, by a simple but 
careful statement of facts. 

In the present instance it appears to me that the share of credit 
due to the distinguished parties, respectively, who have co-operated 
to introduce the discoveries above reported is sufficiently well-marked, 
and certainly ample enough in each instance to confer the highest 
celebrity on those Avho have borne the chief portion of the labor. 

To the continental philosophers belongs the first invention of the 
instrument, without whose aid none of these investigations could have 
been accomplished; while all the earliest and most important discove- 
ries of the varying diathermancy of substances; the knowledge of the 
singular constitution of rock-salt, (which has placed a new instrument 
in the hands of the experimenter;) and the capital fact, disclosed by 
means of it — the refraction of heat from dark sources; together with 
the very singular phenomena of the changes in the nature of heat by 
transmission through certain substances; the remarkable effect of 
smoked rock-salt; the circularly polarizing power of quartz for heat — 



' RADIANT HEAT. 361 

all these important discoveries (besides others of minor value) are 
imperishably associated with the name of Melloni. Our own country 
as fairly and incontestably boasts, besides improvements in the appa- 
ratus and methods, many important results connected with the trans- 
mission of heat, accurate measures of its refraction, together with 
some indication of phenomena analogous to those of diffraction. In 
addition to these, the sole and undisputed credit of first unequivocally 
establishing ihe grand facts of the polarization of heat, even from non- 
luminous sources, by transmission through mica, through tourmaline, 
and by reflection; together with the peculiar and invaluable property 
of mica split by sudden heating, (a fact holding a parallel rank with 
that of the diathermancy of rock-salt;) the dipolarization of heat; its 
consequent double refraction and interference; its circular and elliptic 
polarization; its length of .wave, and the production of that wave by 
transverse vibrations; the confirmation of the circular polarization by 
the rock-salt rhomb, and the peculiar effects of metallic reflection; 
these constitute the unquestionable claims of Professor Forbes. 

On the main point in controversy between these two philosophers, 
the equal or unequal polarizability of heat from different sources, I 
have endeavored to place the facts and arguments clearly before the 
reader; but must confess my own conviction to be in favor of the 
unequal ratio of polarizability in the radiations from luminous and from 
obscure sources, while in some instances the apparently opposite 
results seem distinctly traced to known causes, and in others the 
equalization of the effects appears to depend on some of those modifi- 
cations which the intervention of screens produces in the nature of 
the rays of heat. 

The very remarkable class of phenomena just referred to is, per- 
haps, of all the recent discoveries, that which seems most singular 
and anomalous. That the same ray should acquire an entire change 
of property and nature by and in the act of simply passing through 
certain media seems little in accordance with any conception we can 
form of such radiation. Is this, we may ask, a real change of consti- 
tution, or is it a separation or analysis of the ray into its components ? 

I have elsewhere remarked that the terms "luminous' 7 and "dark" 
heat are of somewhat barbarous appearance; and the objection is more 
than etymological, especially as we now find the luminosity of the 
source is not the essential characteristic of the qualities of the rays. 
And again, in the compound radiation from luminous sources there is 
included a considerable portion of "dark" heat as disclosed by its 
relation to surfaces in absorption. 

The relations of heat to surfaces in absorption, and in the corres- 
ponding inverse effects of radiation, are among the most important 
portions of the subject, and I have in consequence been desirous to 
draw particular attention to the very valuable investigations of Presi- 
dent Bache. 

The properties which characterize the different species of heat (as 
we have seen) have been most remarkably developed and principally 
studied in the phenomena of transmission. A wide field is open to 
the experimenter in connecting these properties with those belonging 



362 RADIANT HEAT. 

to the conditions of surface which produce the absorptive powers of 
bodies for different species of heat; and these, again, with those which 
mark the differences in conductive power, and perhaps also capacity 
for heat. 

With regard to the establishment of a theory of the nature of radiant 
heat, we have seen that the hypothesis of undulations certainly sup- 
plies a clue to a vast range of phenomena, especially those connected 
with polarization. 

The question of the identity of the heating and illuminating radia- 
tions seems clearly negatived by many experiments, if we mean it to 
apply in the sense of one physical agent. But if we refer to the pos- 
sibility of accounting for the different effects by sets of undulations of 
the same etherial medium differing in their wave-lengths, this proba- 
bly presents fewer difficulties than any hypothesis of peculiar heat. 

We may, perhaps, suppose some other element besides the wave- 
length to enter into the explanation; or while we find that the heating 
effect is due to waves of greater length, it may also be true that the 
intensity or accumulation of waves which is necessary for producing 
the sensation of light follows a very different and much higher ratio 
than that requisite for producing heat, and that this latter effect may 
be produced in the highest intensity by longer waves of the same 
etherial medium but not sufficiently accumulated to impress our visual 
organs. 

The difference in the polarizability of heat from different sources is 
not explained by the slight difference of refrangibility, and Professor 
Forbes is of opinion that we must, in consequence, look for its solution 
to a mechanical theory of heat in some respects, at least, different 
from that of light. It is even a question of some difficulty why any 
portion of the heat should not be subject to the law of polarization 
which the rest obeys, unless we suppose the heating effect to be of 
so complex a nature that some part of it only is properly due to rays 
analogous to those of light, while the other part of the effect is pro- 
duced by a mode of action altogether different. 

To any such questions, however, we are hardly yet in a condition 
to give a satisfactory answer; but among the numerous points open 
to inquiry I have dwelt more particularly on those which appear to 
me pre-eminently to require more extended investigation before we 
can hope to obtain materials for constructing any substantial and 
unexceptionable theory. 



REPORT FOR 1854. 

Pakt I. 

Having been honored, for the third time, with a request from the 
general committee to continue my former Reports on the state of our 
knowledge of Radiant Heat, from the date of my last report (1840) up 
to the present time, I feel bound to explain that the resolution con- 
veying that request was passed so long since as the meeting at York 
in 1851, and that it was complied with on the understanding that the 



RADIANT HEAT. 363 

report was not required immediately. But at the present date, being- 
unwilling longer to delay, and rinding that, from the pressure of other 
avocations, there is little probability of my being able to complete it, 
rather than withdraw altogether, I am induced to ask the indulgence 
of the Association for submitting only a portion of such a report. 

Prelimina ry remarks. 

Before commencing any analysis of recent investigations, it will be 
necessary (for reasons which will become apparent) to take, in the 
first instance, a very brief retrospective glance at certain fundamental 
distinctions affecting the whole subject, long ago pointed out, but too 
much overlooked by some writers since. It results from researches 
pointed out in detail in the two former reports, that, under the some- 
what wide term " radiant heat," several totally distinct species of 
effect have been included. 

(I.) The simplest form of radiant heat, and most properly so called, 
is that which arises simply from the cooling of a hot body, and which 
emanates from terrestrial hot bodies of all temperatures, from those 
which are the least elevated above that of the surrounding medium 
up to the highest incandescence or combustion, and is distinguished 
by two properties: 

(a.) A tendency to be absorbed by bodies in proportion to a certain 
peculiarity of texture in their surface, but wholly independent of their 
color. 

(&.) A total incapacity to pass by direct radiation through many 
media, such as glass, &c, though transmissible freely through rock- 
salt, and partially through certain others, called diathermanous media, 
as found by the experiments of Melloni. 

(II.) At a certain stage of incandescence, other rays, also capable of 
exciting heat, begin to be given off along with the former; these are 
distinguished by the properties different from the former: 

(a.) A tendency to be absorbed by bodies in proportion to the dark- 
ness of their color, or their absorption of light. 

(/?.) A power of transmissibility through all transparent substances, 
without diminution through colorless media, and in various proportions 
through colored media, according to their action on light. 

(y.) The power of exciting also the sense of vision, or being lumi- 
niferous. 

This second species coexists in various proportions with the first, 
and is most copious from the most intensely ignited bodies. 

(III.) Closely analogous to this last species, or identical with it, are 
the heat ing rays of the sun, characterized by the same properties, 
(a.,) (/?.,) and (y.,) and distinguished by being totally free from all 
admixture of the first kind, (or Species I.)* 

* This result was formerly obtained by exposing together a blackened and a white- 
washed thermometer to the solar rays, first with, and then without, a thick glass screen; 
in this instance there was only the smallest difference in the absolute values, and none 
whatever in the ratio of the rise of the two thermometers. In the brightest terrestrial rays 
there is a marked and often very great difference in ratio as well as amount This consti- 
tuted the ground of my conclusions as to the heterogeneity of the species of rays in the 
latter case. 



364 RADIANT HEAT. 

When by artificial means the luminiferous rays are analysed, some 
rays are found in which great heating- power coexists with feeble 
illuminating power; but under the same conditions and for the same 
ray the heating is probably directly proportional to the illuminating 
intensity. 

In this way it was that from the distinctions obtained in my original 
experiments, (1825,) I was led to describe generally the communica- 
tion of heat as effected in three distinct ways: 

(1.) By conduction (including what some term convection.) 

(2.) By radiation (in the ordinary sense of the term) or mere- cool- 
ing of a hot body, (Species I above.) 

(3.) By the agency of light, whether from the sun or flames, (Spe- 
cies II and III.) 

In the first instance, it was natural to regard these as so many 
distinct kinds of physical action producing heat, but more recent 
researches, especially those of Professor Forbes, have enabled us to 
connect them by the simple and uniform analogy supplied by the un- 
dulatory hypothesis. If we adopt the hypothesis of undulations of 
decreasing lengths, those of the greatest length correspond to the 
Species I, these continue to be given out as the temperature is raised, 
or as combustion proceeds more intensely, along with others of suc- 
cessively less wave-length, until we arrive at Species II, or those 
which are of the proper length to affect also the retina with the sense 
of vision, and at last the wave-lengths are too small to produce either 
luminiferous or calorific effects; but here they seem to obtain their 
maximum of chemical action. But rays of all wave-lengths thus con- 
tinue to be given out simultaneously. They all produce or excite heat, 
more or less, when stopped or absorbed; and this probably dependent, 
in some direct ratio, on the greater wave-length simply; while the illu- 
minating effect depends on some peculiar relation to certain wave- 
lengths only determined by some physiological conditions of the retina 
at present unknown. Substances which are transparent transmit 
freely rays of the visual wave-lengths, which of course carry with 
them their heating powers. 

Opaque substances which are diathermanous transmit in the same 
way rays of the longer wave-lengths, but not those of shorter. 

The action of the texture of surfaces seems purely mechanical, and 
probably influences the absorption of all rays, but its full effect is 
produced on the rays of longer wave-length; while that of color is 
purely optical and applies to rays of luminiferous wave-lengths only. 

Refraction, polarization, interference, and the like properties of 
light, it would be easily seen, must be accompanied with just such 
indications of heating effect as might consist with the modification 
Avhich the light in the respective cases might undergo. If the light 
were extinguished in certain conditions of polarization, or of inter- 
ference, the heat would of course disappear with it, and the changes 
of intensity would be similar; that is, as regards either the solar rays 
(III) or those of species (II); and consequently, in the case of lumi- 
nous hot bodies, in which Species I and II coexist, the effects in ques- 



RADIANT HEAT. 365 

tion might be expected to occur, but only as applying to that portion 
of the rays which consists of Species II. 

Thus, in a multitude of such cases, these effects might be very 
small, or altogether disguised and hidden. And, moreover, if they 
were real and sensible for Species (II), it would not follow that they 
existed for Species (I), yet the wave analogy would render it 
highly probable; and experiment has now proved it to be the fact. 
This constitutes the peculiar value of Professor Forbes' s researches. 
In the instance of luminous bodies, then, all the combined heteroge- 
neous species of rays, undergo these modifications, though possibly in 
different degrees, and liable to modifications from the different nature 
of the media employed. 

Yet many recent researches seem altogether to ignore these dis- 
tinctions; and the " radiant heat" from different sources is commonly 
spoken of as if all of one kind, and of which a certain per centage is 
stopped or transmitted, in particular cases, by the interposition of 
certain substances; whereas the body of rays is heterogeneous, and 
certain integrant rays only are totally stopped or totally transmitted 
in the respective cases, showing not only quantitative but qualitative 
differences. 

In many researches of this kind the "diathermancy" of bodies is 
spoken of, and experiments made to measure it, as if it applied indif- 
ferently to all species of heating rays, and without any reference to 
the consideration that for certain species of rays bodies are diather- 
manous simply in proportion as they are diaphanous to the particular 
luminous ray in question; while for other species of rays their diather- 
maneity follows some totally different, and as yet unknown law. The 
confusion of ideas introduced by the adoption of that term, unqual- 
ified by any reference to this distinction, and applied to general con- 
clusions respecting "radiant heat," ought to be sufficiently manifest, 
yet has been but little considered: And in cases where the rays 
transmitted by a partially diathermanous body are in fact different in 
kind (agreeably to the above distinction) from those stopped, there is 
an ambiguity in the mode of expression; in fact it is not merely a 
per centage of rays, but an analysis of the whole heterogeneous body 
into more homogeneous or simple elements, i. e., rays of different 
wave-lengths, or combinations of several such rays. 

In my former report (1832, p. 332) it is mentioned that I had then 
repeated my original experiment (Phil. Trans., 1825) with a pair of 
thermometers of a peculiar construction made on purpose, in which 
very small differences were appreciable; but I did not there state any 
of the results. As attention has now been recalled to my original 
experiment, both by the repetition of it by Melloni with the thermo- 
multiplier, and the more recent confirmatory remarks of Knoblauch, 
and as results obtained in this way (notwithstanding the superior claims 
of the thermal pile) may still possess some interest, it may not be 
irrelevant here briefly to state the results of a set of observations 
which have been lying by me since that period. The instrument was 
unfortunately broken soon afterwards. These observations were made 
on the rays of an Argand lamp; the thermometers, fixed on one frame 



366 



RADIANT HEAT. 



at the distance of about three inches apart, were exposed first with, 
and then without, a screen of plate glass one-eighth of an inch thick. 
The mode of observation was to note the rise of the thermometer 
blackened with China ink, in the time which it occupied the white- 
washed thermometer to rise 1° Fahrenheit. 



Screen. 


No screen. 


Number of obscrva-, 
tions. 


White. 


Black. 


White. Black. ' 


o 
1 


o 
3 


o 

1 1.6 


20 


Another set gave the first momentary rise — 


0.5 


2 


1 1.5 


5 



A strong and curious confirmation of the heating power derived 
from luminiferous rays simply, has been furnished in a fact mentioned 
to me by Dr. Bennett, Professor of Physiology in the University of 
Edinburgh, viz: that in the exhibition of anatomical subjects by 
means of the oxy-hydrogen microscope, the light concentrated by a 
lens, at a few inches distance from the source, had so energetic an 
action as to burn up and destroy the specimens placed in the focus. 

On the Theoretical Explanation of some former Experiments. 

The experiments of Melloni (of which some general abstracts are 
given in my former report (1840, p. 335,)) certainly seem at first sight 
to present some anomalous results. 

The main question which seems to arise is, whether the effects of 
heat, as compared with those of illumination, do not follow such 
widely discrepant laws as to make it difficult to ascribe them to the 
same set of waves; and this both with regard to terrestrial and to the 
solar heat. 

To take a single instance: rock-salt is said to be analogous, for heat, 
to colorless media for light; alum is described as totally impermeable 
to " dark heat,"' and partially so to the rays from a lamp, that is, it 
may be wholly impermeable to those rays of the lamp which are iden- 
tical with "dark heat" (Species I) in their relation to absorption, ac- 
cording to the texture of surfaces, and wholly permeable to those 
(Species II) which are associated with light, and produce this effect 
in proportion to the absorption of light by dark colored surfaces; or in 
the language of the wave-theory, wholly impermeable to rays of 
longer wave-length, and wholly permeable to certain rays of smaller 
wave-length. 



RADIANT HEAT. 367 

In some of Melloni's experiments, rays from the lamp transmitted 
in different proportions by various screens, and then equalized, were 
afterwards found to be transmitted by alum in similar proportions. 
This he describes by the expression that "they possess the diather- 
mancy peculiar to the substances through which they had passed." 
Yet the fact surely implies no new property communicated to the 
rays. It merely shows, that as different specific rays out of the com- 
pound beam were transmitted in each case by the first screen, alum, 
though impervious to the lower heating rays, (i. e., of lower refran- 
gibility or longer wave-length,) is permeable to those higher rays; 
and in different degrees according to their nature; an effect simply 
dependent on the heterogeneity of the compound beam from the 
flame. Again, with differently colored glasses peculiar differences of 
diathermancy were exhibited with the rays from a lamp, incandes- 
cent metal, and the sun; but not more various or anomalous than the 
absorption of specific rays of light by such media. And besides 
these considerations, it must be borne in mind that a smooth blackened 
surface is itself unequally absorptive for the different rays, acting (from 
its color) more energetically on those of a refrangibility within the 
limits of the visible spectrum, and which affect the eye as rays of 
light; and more feebly on the rays of lower refrangibility, and which 
act more energetically on bodies with reference to the absorptive 
texture of their surfaces. 

As (according to my experiments) the solar heat is wholly of that 
kind which is freely transmitted through all colorless media along 
with the light, it does not appear that there would be any particular 
advantage in operating on the solar spectrum with a rock-salt prism. 
Melloni, however, with such a prism found, on interposing a thick 
screen of water, the most heating rays (i. e., those toward the red 
end) intercepted, (as they are known to be by water,) and this caused 
the position of the maximum to be apparently shifted higher up the 
spectrum, even to the position of the green rays. 

On the other hand, many colored glasses he found absorbed the 
rays in various proportions, yet they left the point of maximum heat 
unaltered, i. e., though variously absorptive for the higher rays, they 
were not of a nature to stop the lower or most heating rays. 

It appears also to be questioned whether the solar beam does- not 
actually contain some rays of Species I, that is, of wave-lengths 
greater than any of the prismatic rays, including the ordinarily invisi- 
ble extreme red. My original experiment on this point, above referred 
to, may probably be unworthy of comparison in accuracy with those 
which may now be made with the thermo-multiplier. 

It would therefore be highly desirable if an experiment on the same 
principle as mine, viz: a black and white thermoscope exposed to- 
gether, first with and then without a screen, were repeated on the 
solar rays, with a variety of screens, including especially rock-salt, 
with all the increased accuracy and sensibility now attainable by the 
use of two ther mo -multipliers, by which the differences or identities of 
ratio in the two cases would be rendered evident in the most 



368 RADIANT HEAT. 

satisfactory manner. It would be also highly important to make 
similar observations on the oxy-hydrogen and the electric light. 

The theory of unequal wave-lengths, as the sole explanation of the 
"different species of "radiant heat,' ; whether solar or terrestrial, or in 
other words, the identity of the rays which produce alike the sensa- 
tions of light, of heat, or other effects, each in some peculiar relation 
to the wave-length, certainly applies in a very satisfactory manner to 
a large portion of the phenomena. There may, indeed, be some 
minor objections or difficulties, but the only formidable outstanding 
objection seems to arise from a single result, announced long ago by 
Melloni, and referred to in my former report, viz: the fact that a cer- 
tain kind of green glass transmits the solar light in high intensity 
while it deprives it of all heating power. This anomaly is indeed in 
itself so singular as to require very positive authority to substantiate 
it; and in M. Melloni' s statement there is, as appears to me, a certain 
degree of vagueness, and it is not supported by any numerical results, 
or even any detailed account of the mode of operating"'. 

An alleged isolated fact of so extraordinary a character has long 
appeared to me to demand a strict re-examination. I had hoped that 
on presenting this report, in many other respects so imperfect, I 
might have been able to announce the result of such a repetition. 
But, unhappily, a variety of causes have hitherto prevented me from 
carrying it into effect. 

Theoretical Refraction of Heat. 

An important point bearing on the theory was indicated very 
shortly after the communication of my last report, (1840,) in my trea- 
tise " On the Undulatory Theory applied to Dispersion," (1841.) I 
have there shown (see pp. 71 and 122) that the formula for the re- 
fractive index in terms of the wave-length deduced from Cauchy's 
theory, furnishes a striking coincidence with Professor Forbes' s de- 
termination of the index of refraction for a ray of dark heat in rock- 
salt. The formula in question way be expressed thus: 



^(SMr)'-**- 



F 

where ft is the index, X the wave-length, Ax the small interval of the 

molecules, and P, Q, R constants. From the nature of this formula, 

it is evident that as X is increased the changes corresponding in the value 

Ax 
of p. are very small; and when l is very great, or — extremely small, 

the value of fj. is susceptible of a limit, which will be 

1 

This will represent the physical condition, that as we take rays of 
successively greater wave-length, they will be crowded together into 

5 On the Identity of Light and Heat, Taylor's Foreign Memoirs, Part III, p. 38S. 



RADIANT HEAT. 3G9 

one position of refraction, which will have a bounding or limiting 
position, beyond which no ray of however great wave-length can be- 
refracted. This will be different for each medium, but will in 
general correspond to a refractive index not greatly below the index 
for the extreme red ray, and which is calculated, in my treatise just 
referred to, for various media. For rock salt it is a little lower than 
Professor Forbes' s index for dark heat. 

The data will be best seen as collected in the following table.* 

Rock salt. 

Value of p. 





Ray. 


Obs 


Forbes. 


Theory, 
Powell. 


Mean light 






1.558 
1.540 




Red 






A— 000079 




1.529 


Dark hot metal 






1.528 








1.527 







31. Knoblauch's Researches. 

Among the most important of recent researches on the subject of 
radiant heat, are those of M. Knoblauch, Professor of Natural Philoso- 
phy in the University of Marburg, which are not to be surpassed for 
elaborate extent and accuracy of detail. They are given in Poggen- 
dorff's "Annalen," January and March, 1847, and translated in 
Taylor's "Foreign Scientific Memoirs," Parts XVIII and XIX, 1848. 

The memoir is of great extent, and is divided into six sections. 

Section I is entitled "On the Passage of Radiant Heat through 
Diathermanous Bodies, with especial regard to the Temperature of 
the Source of Heat." 

The author commences with a summary of the results previously 
obtained, in which he cites the results of Delaroche and others, with- 
out reference to the different interpretation which must be put upon 
them if the experiments and conclusions just referred to be admitted. 

He observes that, from the experiments of Melloni, rock salt appears 
equally permeable by heating rays of all hinds; from those of Forbes, 
prepared rock salt would seem penetrated by heating rays in a greater 
degree when the source was at a lower temperature. Here I would 
observe that the temperature of the source, as such, manifestly bears 
no direct proportion to the degree of luminosity, it being perfectly 
well known that the temperature of luminosity is very different for 
different bodies; and these are also of very different illuminating 
powers. Now, as in all cases there are several different species of 

« On this point some notices were submitted to Section A, in 1840 and 1841. See Report, 
1840, Sect. Proa, p. 14, and 1841, p. 25. 

24 



370 RADIANT HEAT. 

heating rays emanating' at the same time from the source, some lumi- 
niferous, and some not so, it is in no way a matter of surprise, or an ex- 
ceptional case, that the transmissive power of rock salt, or of any 
other substance, should bear no proportion to the mere temperature of 
the source. 

M. Knoblauch, however, instituted an elaborate set of experiments 
to ascertain whether any such relation could be maintained. 

The experiments were all conducted by means of the thermo-mul- 
tiplier, which in this instance was constructed with especial precau- 
tions to insure extreme accuracy and sensibility. 

M. Knoblauch's first series of experiments included, as sources, al- 
cohol flame, incandescent platinum, hydrogen flame, Argand lamp, of 
which the temperatures were in the order of enumeration, the first 
being the highest. The effect of each on the thermo-multiplier was 
observed with the intervention of a series of screens, colored glass, 
alum, mica, colorless glass, calcspar, gypsum, <fec. The transmitted 
effects varied, of course, with the different screens; but in every in- 
stance they were smallest with the first source, and increased in the 
order of enumeration, or in the inverse order of the temperatures. — 
(Table I.) 

In this series the real nature of the results is, in fact, evident from 
the distinctions above drawn. The effect is simply dependent on the 
light, or heating power of Species II, mixed, no doubt, to a certain 
extent in some cases with that of Species I; which last probably doc* 
bear a close proportion to the temperature of the source, but is in 
these instances overruled by the effect of Species II being very feebly, 
or not at all, transmitted by the screens. 

In this series also M. Knoblauch found that the transmission through 
rock salt was not exactly equal for all the sources, contrary to the as- 
sertion of Melloni; the difference, however, is very small. 

In the second series the sources were a vessel of hot water of dif- 
ferent temperatures, from 93° to 212°, the radiating side being in 
each instance covered successively with lamp-black, glass, wool, and 
in each instance the thermo-multiplier being placed at a greater dis- 
tance, in the ratio of the increased temperature, so that the effects of 
direct radiation were equalized. In each instance, then, a series of 
screens (the same as before) were interposed, each screen transmitting 
t different amount of heat, but the results with each temperature be- 
ing found equal. — (Table II.) 

In tho third series the sources were hollow cylinders of iron and of 
copper closely surrounding the flame of a lamp, and heated by it to 
several temperatures, from 234° Fahrenheit up to a little below red- 
ness; in each instance the same equalization was effected as in the 
last series, and the same series of screens gave varied effects for each 
screen, but equal effects for each temperature, as in the last series. — 
(Table III.) 

The fourth series included platinum in successive stages of heat : 
1st, dark; 2d, just red; 3d, yellow; 4th, partly white. In each in- 
stance the series of screens was applied. In the 1st, 2d and 4th stages 
of heat these gave uniform results, increasing with the heat; but in 



RADIANT HEAT. 371 

the 3d case certain screens gave results less than in case 2, -while an- 
other and smaller number only gave them greater. — (Table IV.) 

The peculiar, and at first sight apparently anomalous circumstance, 
that platinum, at a stage intermediate between red and white heat, 
transmits through certain of the screens employed rather less heat 
than -when at the lower stage of red heat, may however be explained, 
if we suppose that the rays given off at this intermediate stage are of 
such a wave-length as to be subject to a peculiar absorption by these 
particular screens. He then shows, from the conditions observed, 
that the effect of secondary radiation was fully guarded against. 

Hence the author draws the conclusion, "that the passage of ra- 
diant heat through diathermanous bodies is not in immediate con- 
connexion with the temperature of the source, as was probable from 
previous experiments; but is alone dependent upon the structure of 
the diathermanous substance, which is penetrated by certain rays of 
heat in a greater degree than by others, whether this occurs at a 
lower or a higher temperature." 

In all this there appears nothing to remark, except, perhaps, the 
observation that previous experiments might make a contrary result 
probable, which does not appear to be the case, since (as already ob- 
served) the temperature of luminosity has been long known to be very 
different for different substances. It were to be wished, that when 
the author speaks of "certain rays" being transmitted, he had more 
distinctly indicated the species to which they belong, but which seem 
to conform to the classification before noticed. 

Some further experiments were made on sources of different form 
and size; cubes and cylinders of hot water of several magnitudes, and 
small and large flames, having successively different screens inter- 
posed between them and the thermoscope. The results were very 
uniform for all the sources, proving that the differences in question 
produced none in the transmission, as indeed might have been ex- 
pected.— (Table V.) 

Section II is " On the Heating of Bodies by Radiant Heat." 

Here, after observing in general as a well-known fact, that the effect 
is greatly influenced by the structure of the surface, he observes : 

"More recent experiments by B. Powell and Melloni have shown 
that one and the same body is not uniformly heated by rays of heat 
emanating from different sources, which exert the same direct action 
upon a thermoscope coated with lamp-black." — (p. 205.) 

And he details some experiments, (Table VI,) showing that with a 
lamp a greater effect is produced on a surface coated with black paper 
than one with carmine, but with dark heat a less — a result which 
might indeed have been expected from what was well understood 
before the date of the researches alluded to, and which it was by no 
means their object to establish. 

A set of experiments (Table VII) proved that for small thicknesses 
of coating (within the limit of those employed by Leslie and Melloni) 
the absorption of heat is proportional to the thickness. 

Also, that "the temperature of a body, when the thickness in- 



372 RADIANT HEAT. 

creases, is more raised the less it is diathermanous to the rays trans- 
mitted to it." 

In Section III, "On the Property of Radiating Heat in Bodies," 
the author examines various cases in which the state of the surface, 
as in cast and rolled lead, smooth and scratched more or less closely, 
was observed as to its influence on the radiation, when the plates 
were kept heated by boiling water. — (Table VIII.) 

Similar experiments with copper (Table IX) confirmed Melloni's 
conclusion, that the action is purely mechanical. 

In another set of experiments (Table X) the increase of radiation 
with increased thickness of coating confirms the conclusion of Rum- 
ford and Melloni, that radiation commences from a certain depth be- 
low the surface. 

The next set of experiments was directed to answer the inquiry, 
" Does the radiating power of one and the same body vary according 
as it is heated to a given degree by rays from different sources of 
heat?" The answer was distinctly in the negative, the sources of 
heat being a lamp and a hot cylinder, and the body heated and then 
radiating, being successively paper coated with carmine, and with 
lamp-black on the absorbing side, and lastly on both sides; also a 
plate of charcoal, and carmine spread upon wire gauze (Table XI;) 
and again, using carmine blackened next the thermoscope, and plain; 
and black paper coated with lamp-black next the thermoscope, and 
plain.— (Table XII.) 

The author thus arrives at the conclusion, "under those circum- 
stances in which the same bodies exhibit an unequal absorptive 
power their radiating power is one and the same; and those differ- 
ences which have hitherto been observed when they are not heated 
to the same extent are, therefore, pure functions of the former and 
independent of the latter." 

The conclusion, if we understand it rightly, would appear capable 
of being more easily stated, and, indeed, rendered at once obvious, 
from the distinctions at first pointed out; whence it is evident that 
the rays of Species I (as before described) from the cylinder, and 
those of Species II from the lamp, will necessarily act very unequally,, 
according to the texture and color of the surface. 

But when a body has received the radiation, from whatever source, 
and converted it into heat of temperature, as in these cases, to an 
equalized degree, it will necessarily radiate it again in an equal de- 
gree with the same surface, from whatever species of rays it was 
originally obtained. 

Section IV is headed "Comparison of the Heat radiated from differ- 
ent bodies within a certain range of Temperature." 

The author commences by remarking that "all former observations 
upon radiation have only related to the quantities of heat emitted by 
different substances at certain temperatures." The object of the 
present investigation is to ascertain whether there are any qualitative 
differences; or, as the author expresses it, "whether the heat which 
radiates from certain bodies at one and the same temperature, or 
within certain limits of temperature, is of a different kind, according 



RADIANT HEAT. oT3 

as it is emitted by different bodies, or is excited in them in a different 
way. ; J 

This inquiry was pursued by a series of experiments, in which (1) 
a vessel of water at 212° and (2) the flame of a lamp had in contact 
with them various ad lather manous substances, su<*h as metal, porce- 
lain, leather, wood, &c, in the heat given out, by which the series 
of screens gave exactly similar series of effects. As also with the 
heat from a hollow cylinder of copper or iron surrounding a flame. 
But when the direct radiation of the flame was employed, the series 
of results were in proportions considerably different. — (Tables XIII 
to XVI.) 

The author, indeed, remarks, at the conclusion, that these last 
differences are due to the heat transmitted by the screens, i. e., the 
heat conveyed by the luminous rays; as, indeed, would be manifest, 
according to the views at first noticed. 

In another series (1) an adiathermanous body at several tempera- 
tures, from 88° to 212°, (2) the flame of a lamp and (3) a metal cylin- 
der round a flame below 234°, were severally tried with the same 
series of screens; the results in cases (1) and (3) being found exactly 
similar, in (2) in a very different proportion. 

The same sources were next tried with two screens interposed; the 
first being, successively, metal with holes, silk, ivory, &c, and each 
of these combined with the several screens of the former series. In 
all cases the results gave proportional series. — (Tables XVII to XIX.) 

Another series was conducted with, 1st, a flame, and, 2d, water at 
212°; each in succession with a screen used first plain and then 
blackened, the screens being black glass, lac, ivory, paper, &c. ; the 
results being always less with the blackened surface, very similar in 
each case, and all less with the hot water. — (Table XX.) 

Another set, with a heated mass, and with the hand at its natural 
temperature for sources, gave similar results with various screens. — 
(Table XXI.) 

This, the author says, "disproves the opinion of Forbes, that the 
heat emitted by boiling water and the hand must be considered as 
different." I am unable to find in what respect Professor Forbes 
supposes them different. 

At the conclusion of this section the author adverts to two practical 
inferences from what has preceded. 

(i.) The fact that the amount. of heat absorbed by a given body is 
the same, from whatever source it was derived, is important in regard 
to the determination of specific heats by the colorimeter ; for if the heat 
absorbed by the ice were different as it might be derived from differ- 
ent sources, no correct measure of specific heat would be obtained. 
That it is not so insures the accuracy of the results, so far as this 
source of error is concerned. 

(ii.) The second application is, that "these results lead to anew 
method of ascertaining whether any substance transmits rays of heat 
or not," (235;) that is, of determining whether any given instance of 
transmission of heat is really due to diathermancy, or is merely sec- 
ondary radiation. 



374: RADIANT HEAT. 

Thus, to determine whether ivory, e. g., is really diathermanous; 
the source of heat is a known adiathermanous substance kept heated 
by a lamp; the effect is observed; a known diathermanous screen is 
then interposed and the effect again observed; the ivory is then sub- 
stituted for the diathermanous body, and the direct effect equalized to 
the former; the same screen is then interposed, but now a great 
effect is transmitted. It follows that part of the original heat is 
transmitted directly by the ivory, along with that radiated from it; or 
the ivory is diathermanous. 

Section V, on "the Comparison of the amount of Heat diffusely 
reflected by different bodies," refers to that kind of irregular reflec- 
tion, or dispersion (as it has been sometimes called) of the rays from 
the roughened, or at least unpolished surfaces of bodies, and which. 
is distinguished from regular reflection, which is governed by the law 
of equal angles of reflection and incidence by occurring equally at all 
angles. And the object is stated by the author to be the determina- 
tion "whether heat, or diffuse reflection, experiences changes in its 
properties which distinguish it from that which is not reflected.'' — 
(384.) 

The heat being incident on a rough surface is, of course, partly 
absorbed and radiated again; to guard against error from confounding 
this with the proper reflected heat, various and careful precautions 
were adopted. 

The author then proceeds to detail the observations, which are of 
voluminous extent, and the results recorded in a long series of tables. — 
(Tables XXII to XXXII, inclusive.) 

In all this first series the source employed was an Argand lamp 
without its chimney, and in all cases the mode of operating was 
similar. 

The unpolished surface under examination was exposed to the rays 
of the lamp at different distances and at different inclinations, and the 
direct effect noted; the experiment was then repeated with the inser- 
tion of a series of variously diathermanous screens. 

The substances used as reflectors were extremely varied; such as 
bodies agreeing in one property and differing in another, or totally 
homogeneous, or totally heterogeneous. 

Thus an immense range of substances of animal, vegetable, and 
mineral origin, opaque or transparent, of all colors and textures, were 
examined, and the agreements or discordances, according to their 
various properties, were found extremely varied and curious. 

By these results, the author observes, "it is placed beyond all 
doubt that heat, on diffuse reflection, is very differently modified by 
some bodies to a great extent, while by others it is unchanged." — 
(400.) 

And these results completely confirm the position already advanced, 
"that the transmission of heat through diathermanous media depends 
solely upon the nature of these bodies, by virtue of which they trans- 
mit some rays more easily than others." — (402.) 

In a second series the same subject is continued with reference to 
different sources of heat, which were, besides the lamp, platinum at a 



RADIANT HEAT. 375 

red heat, the flame of alcohol, and a metallic cylinder heated by W i 
placed over the flame of a lamp, as before: 

(i.) The reflections were first made from that series of substances 
which had displayed the gn in the former instance. 

The results are given in a similar tabular form. — (Tables XXXIII to 
XXXVIII.) 

The author's general conclusion is, "that the modifications which 
heat experiences on reflection are very considerable in the case of the 
heat emanating from an Argand lamp: that with the heat of red-hot 
platinum they diminish; with the heat of the flame of alcohol they are 
still less; and in the case of the heat emitted by a heated iron cylin- 
der, of whatever temperature it may be, between 70° and about 234° 
Fahrenheit, they absolutely vanish.''' — (407.) 

Or more generally, "the changes undergone by heat on diffuse re- 
flection are occasioned both by the nature of the sources of heat and 
the properties of the reflecting body." — (408.) 

(ii.) It remained, as the author expresses it, to determine "whether 
those surfaces which exert a similar influence on the rays of the Argand 
Lamp, I. (..which the}^ reflect in such a manner that the heat reflected 
by the one is transmitted by the diathermanous media used for test- 
ing in the same proportion as that reflecte'cl by the others, would also 
reflect the heat from the other sources, so that' the rays reflected by 
them would pass through these substances in the same manner." — 
(409.) 

The results of these experiments are given in detail. — (Tables 
XXXIX to XLIV.) 

The question then arose with regard to the explanation of these phe- 
nomena: Are they owing to any change undergone by the rays in per- 
meating the diathermanous substances, or were they "the consequences 
of a selective absorption of the reflecting surfaces for certain rays of heat 
transmitted to them, as appeared the most probable view from the 
experiments of Baden Powell and Melloni?" — (415.) 

This question the author proceeds to examine by a detailed com- 
parison of the foregoing results, exhibited in new tabular arrange- 
ments of every case. — (Tables XLV to LI.) 

Upon a minute discussion of all these results, the author decide sin 
favor of the second alternative; or "that the changes experienced by 
heat on diffuse reflection are merely the result of a selective absorp- 
tion of the reflecting surfaces for certain rays of heat transmitted to 
them."— (423.) 

The author also adverts to some other inferences from these experi- 
ments; as that, " excepting charcoal and the metals, it cannot be said 
that any body reflects heat better or worse than any other, because 
this relation varies with each kind of radiation." 

Again: certain bodies of the same color reflect different kinds of 
heat, and others of different color the same kind; and this is con- 
nected with the fact that "every luminiferous source of heat emits a 
large number of invisible rays, which are susceptible of reflection and 
affect the thermal pile."— (424.) 

These, and some other remarks on the dissimilarity in the diffuse 



37G RADIANT HEAT. 

reflections of luminiferous and calorific rays, are not perhaps expressed 
with that clearness which might be wished. 

The subject of Section VI is " On the Sources of Heat;" which is 
further explained to relate to the differences in the nature of the rays, 
or in general the heterogeneity of the rays, emitted from one and the 
same source at the same time; and the differences in this respect of 
different sources. 

From the previous experiments the author concludes, in general, 
that " the variety of the rays of heat emitted is greatest with the 
Argand lamp, less with red-hot platinum, still less when the flame of 
alcohol is used, and has entirely disappeared with the cylinder heated 
to 212° Fahrenheit.' 7 — (426.) 

But he now proceeds to test and extend such conclusions in another 
way, viz: by the differences exhibited by the rays in the different 
action of diathermanous bodies upon them, according as they have in 
the first instance passed through certain diathermanous bodies, or pro- 
ceeded direct from the source. The differences thus exhibited give 
increasing proofs of heterogeneity. 

And one more important point belonging to this inquiry he investi- 
gated, by platinum heated to successive stages, (1) below 234°, (2) at 
a red, (3) at a yellow, and (4) at a white heat; while in each case the 
heat was reflected diffusely by various surfaces, and in every instance 
intercepted by the same series of screens. — (Tables LII to LV.) 

From these he draws the conclusion that the differences which the 
rays evolved at the successive stages exhibit after diffuse reflection, 
on transmission through diathermanous media, are in every instance 
greater at the stage (4) than at (3;) these greater than at (2,) and 
these than at (1.) Or, in general, that the heat emitted by platinum 
at these successive stages is successively more heterogeneous as we 
advance from the lower to the higher. 

Again, with the same body it is not in the mere proportion of the in- 
crease of temperature, as such; nor in different bodies does it follow 
any proportion to the temperature (as before observed.) 

The author hints generally at the relation between these degrees of 
heterogeneity and the differences in the nature of the luminous rays 
emitted; but without laying down any very precise or clearly drawn 
distinctions as to their characteristic properties. 

Transmission of Heat through Crystals. 

Melloni had raised the question whether in one and the same body, 
in a crystal, for instance, the quantity of radiant heat transmitted was 
different along the different axes. In experimenting on this subject, 
in connexion with M. Knoblauch, he found that with transparent 
rock crystal and with calcspar no difference of this kind was detected. 

In a memoir (in Poggendorff's Annalen, 1852, No. 2, translated in 
Taylor's Foreign Memoirs, November, 1852, and February, 1853,) en- 
titled "On the Dependence of Radiant Heat in its Passage through 
Crystals on the Direction of Transmission," M. Knoblauch has pur- 
sued the subject commenced by Melloni. 



RADIANT HEAT. 377 

He took in the first instance a cube of brozvn quartz, having two of 
its sides perpendicular to the axis of the crystal. The rays of the sun 
were reflected into a room by a heliostat, and the mirror being me- 
tallic they remained unpolarized, and after passing through the crystal, 
(which could be turned with its axis in different directions with respect 
to the rays,) were received on a thermo -multiplier. The effect was 
considerably less in the direction perpendicular to the axis. The same 
result was found with beryl; but with tourmaline the effect was greatest 
perpendicular to the axis. 

The rays were next polarized by a Nicol's prism, before incidence 
on the crystal. "When the plane' of polarization coincided with the 
axis the heat transmitted was the same in all directions. But when 
perpendicular to the axis the differences before observed in the unpolar- 
ized rays were increased. 

No difference could be detected between the cases when the rays 
passed along the axis of the crystals, and the plane of polarization was 
respectively horizontal or vertical. 

M. Knoblauch now proceeded to try whether the rays which ex- 
hibit quantitative differences as above, would show qualitative differences 
in the same cases, that is, differences in the power of transmission 
through diathermanous bodies. 

The diathermanous bodies employed for screens were blue, yellow, 
red and green glasses. 

After transmission through a brown rock crystal, the proportion of 
rays penetrating the different screens differed in the two positions, 
parallel and perpendicular to the axis, only within errors of observa- 
tion. 

With the rays previously polarized (as before) sensible differences 
were observed, the plane of polarization being vertical. 

The heat was in all cases greatest through the yellow and red 
glasses, rather less through the blue, and least through the green. 

Another set of experiments, in which the plane of polarization was 
horizontal, gave no sensible differences. 

Rays traversing the crystal along its axis, also exhibit no differences, 
as was likewise the case with rays perpendicular to the axis. 

With beryl similar observations were repeated; with blue glass the 
difference is very small, for yellow rather greater; the author infers a 
real difference. 

With polarized light and with the plane of polarization vertical, the 
differences are much greater with both glasses. 

With the plane horizontal no difference was found. 

Common light, passed through two cubes of beryl according as their 
axes were parallel or perpendicular to each other, gave great differ- 
ences with the yellow and blue glasses, and in an opposite ratio in the 
respective cases. 

With tourmaline exactly similar results were obtained in the cor- 
responding cases. 

With dichorite also the author says, ' ' so far as the examination 
extended, qualitative differences dependent on the direction of trans 
mission have also been observed." 



378 RADIANT HEAT. 

At the conclusion the author makes some observations in explana- 
tion of the phenomena; these ma}- be more briefly and clearly expressed 
thus: 

The unpolarized rays incident along the axis of the crystals examine*] 
or parallel to it undergo a certain absorption dependent on the nature 
of the crystal; and this is no further modified, since in this direction 
there is no double refraction. 

But if the ray be incident perpendicular to the axis, it is divided 
into two, oppositely polarized, and these are differently absorbed. 

That which has its plane of polarization parallel to the axis has the 
same absorption as along the axis. That which has its plane of polari- 
zation perpendicular- to the axis is absorbed more or less than the 
former, in different degrees in different crystals, and for the different 
component rays. 

When the unpolarized rays are incident, then the result is com- 
pounded of these separate effects. 

When rays previously polarized are employed, the effects are 
displayed singly. 

The author considers that these distinctions fully account for the 
observed phenomena. 

Upon this we may observe — 

The investigation cannot with correctness be called one on the 
transmission of "radiated heat" in general; it is restricted to that 
peculiar form or case of radiation which is manifested in the solar rays, 
and proves nothing as to the radiation from hot bodies, or even that 
conveyed in the ra} T s from artificial lights, unless, as inferred, by 
analogy. All the differences observed depend simply on the unequal 
absorption of the rays of light by the crystals and the colored glasses. 

Mellon? s recent Experiments. 

In the " Comptes Rendus," No. 10, p. 429, March G, 1854, Melloni 
gives some brief remarks in reply to certain objections raised by MM. 
Provostaye and Desains against the accuracy of experiments with the 
thermo-multiplier on the passage of heat through screens. 

He points out as the sources of discrepancy the oblique passage of 
the rays through a thick diathermanous screen, which is greater or 
less according to the distance, and gives different effects of internal 
reflection and absorption in different cases. 

To show that the errors objected arise solely from this source, he 
cribes a careful repetition of his experiments in which it was 
'led against. 

The series of experiments included the usual set of sources, viz: 

(1.) The flame of an oil-lamp. 

(2.) Incandescent platina kept up by vapor of alcohol. 

(3.) Plate of copper heated by lamp. 

(4.) Vessel of hot water. 

Equalizing the effects on the thermo-multiplier by changing the dis- 
tance and interposing a rock-salt screen, the diminution of effect 
appeared the same for the first three sources, but greater for the fourth 



RADIANT II 



But this last result he contends was simply clue to the greater prox- 
imity of the source, and consequent greater differences of inclination 
of the rays; and when equalized in this respect, the difference in 
question disappeared, or might even be reversed. 

In the same notice Melloni refers briefly toother results which have 
been obtained by means of rock-salt. 

(1.) That with a prism of rock-salt the maximum of caloric effect in 
the solar spectrum is thrown further from the limit than with other 
" prisms thermochroiques." 

(2.) That the radiation from the sun diminishes from the centre to 
the circumference; that the radiation from the spots is less than from 
the rest of the surface, and that of the equatorial region of the sun 
greater; these results were obtained by M. Secehi. 

It may be right to add that I have been informed that in a work 
entitled " Thermo -curose," not long since published at Naples, M. 
Melloni has somewhat modified his former opinions, and seems disposed 
to assent to the doctrine of the identity of the rays which produce 
light and heat, or heat alone, according to their greater wave-length; 
and has explained and reconciled some of his former difficulties. I 
regret to be unable at present to give a more precise account. 

Mr. Draper also, I am informed, has been led to admit that the 
chemical effects belong properly to the same set of rays, differing only 
in the characteristic of peculiar wave-lengths. 

On the whole, the question of the evidence for and against this 
theory is one eminently deserving of being fully discussed. I can only 
pretend in this imperfect report to have suggested some of the ma- 
terials which may assist in forming some judgment on this point, 

Analogies of Transmission of Light and Heat by Waves. 

The very important researches of Mr. Joule on heat and the dy- 
namical theory to which they lead, though referring directly to heat 
m its action on bodies as temperature or as latent heat, yet are not 
without a bearing on the subject of radiant heat, as has been in some 
degree pointed out in the excellent address of our President of last 
year.— (Report, 1853, p. xlvii.) 

Mr. Joule's theory, though not as such dependent on the wave- 
theory of heat, is yet eminently in accordance with it, and so far lends 
it much support. If we suppose the temperature of a body to arise 
from vibrations of its molecules, such vibrations may be excited in it 
by the vibrations of an ethereal medium surrounding and penetrating 
that mass of matter. In this respect the close analogy with sound is 
preserved. These vibrations of heat, however, produce mechanical 
changes m the constitution of the medium. They cause it to expand: 
I e., they drive its molecules to greater distances apart; and when 
carried to a certain extent, cause a fresh and sudden separation to a 
tar greater extent, accompanied with a new arrangement of these 
molecules, or a change of state in the body from solid to fluid or from 
fluid to aeriform. Here the analogy with sound ceases to hold good, 
except so far as that a temporary new arrangement of the molecules 



380 RADIANT HEAT. 

is occasioned by the sonorous vibrations. The transmission of livmi- 
niferous waves has a velocity which, though enormous, is capable of 
measurement. Whether that of the longer non-luminiferous but 
caloriferous waves is the same has not been, I believe, experimentally 
verified, but must theoretically be supposed the same, unless, indeed, 
it be only approximately the same for waves within the narrow limits 
of the luminiferous scale, and diverge from that value beyond those, 
limits. 

Again, the passage or process of the vibrations in a body receiving 
heat is slow ; to this conduction of heat there does not seem to be any- 
thing strictly analogous in sound. In general the passage of light 
through transparent bodies excites in them no vibrations capable of 
affecting our eyes with the sense of light; i. e., the medium does not 
become luminous, unless we except the case of the phosphorescence 
of fluor-spar and some other bodies after exposure to light. So far, 
indeed, as the transparency is imperfect, and in all opaque bodies the 
vibrations which constitute light are stopped, or changed in such a 
manner that they give rise to vibrations in the body constituting heat, 
just as those longer vibrations do which constitute that species of 
radiation which is derived from the mere cooling of a hot body; but 
this does not occur in transparent bodies. It would seem to be the 
law that if a ray, or a series of waves of the proper length to be 
luminiferous, impinge on an opaque body, they communicate vibra- 
tions to its molecules, which again transmit to the surrounding ether 
other waves of greater length, which in like manner traverse space and 
can again excite vibrations in bodies on which they impinge; or if 
from any source a body have internal vibrations of a certain intensity, 
(whether forming leaves, or of what lengths, we have no means of 
deciding.) it can transmit to the surrounding ether vibrations which 
constitute waves of lengths greater than a certain given length, viz: 
that which belongs to the deepest red luminiferous rays. If its 
internal vibrations are increased in intensity beyond a certain point, 
it then acquires the power of communicating (in addition to the last) 
other vibrations to the ether forming waves of other and smaller 
lengths, so as to give rise to light. 

Origin of the Solar Heed. Professor W. Thomson's Theory. 

Some very important speculations have been brought forward on 
the source, and thus bear on the nature, of the solar heat, by Professor 
Thomson"", in immediate connexion with the theory of Mr. Joule, and 
on the principle that the energy of the heat thus emitted must be 
accompanied by an equivalent expenditure of mechanical force. On 
this principle he institutes numerical calculations, the main results of 
winch, together with a brief exposition of the principles, may be 
given as follows : 

The kind of force acting, or the source of solar heat, the author 
conceives may be expressed by several hypotheses, each of which he 
examines: 

^Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. sxi, part 1. On the Mechanical 
Energies of the Solar System. 



RADIANT HEAT. 381 

I. The supposition of the sun being simply a body intensely heated 
and losing its heat by radiation or simple cooling. 

This he considers quite untenable, as well on theoretical grounds 
advanced in some other papers, as on the simple consideration that 
if this were true the sun would be extinguished in a very short time. 

II. The hypothesis of chemical action or combustion of any kind. 
Supposing one of the combining bodies to be supplied from any 

■atmosphere, the products of combustion would be so enormous as to 
choke the fire, if gaseous, by preventing the access of the air in 
question, or, if solid or liquid, by preventing the supply of fuel; and 
according to the mechanical theory before mentioned, a numerical 
calculation shows that the whole mass of the sun could scarcely last 
8,000 years without being all consumed, if generating, by its own 
burning, the heat which is actually emitted. Hence if the sun is a 
fire, the fuel must be supplied from external space. But a mass of 
coal or iron or potassium could not reach the sun from external space 
without generating thousands of times as much heat from its motion 
as it could possibly do by its combustion. Combustion is probably, 
therefore, insignificant, if it exists at all, as a source of solar heat. 

III. The hypothesis of meteors falling into the sun and expending 
force mechanically has been started by Mr. Waterston*, who supposes 
such bodies to be attracted and fall directly into the sun from remote 
extra-planetary regions. 

The supply of meteoric matter necessary according to this theory 
is estimated to amount to such a mass as would cover the sun's surface 
to a depth of thirty feet in one year. 

The author, however, considers it probable that meteors actually 
fall into the sun, not directly from distant spaces, but by the action 
of a resisting medium surrounding the sun, which contracts the orbits 
in which they are revolving round him. He conceives that these 
meteors must be moving within the limits of the earth's orbit, or we 
should be continually struck by them, and that they are probably the 
matter of the zodiacal light. 

It is, however, quite conceivable that that cloud of small planetary 
masses may once have extended beyond the limits of the earth' s orbit, 
and thus in' remote periods the earth may have been exposed to such 
falls of them as to have materially raised its temperature; and hence 
a possible source of those high temperatures which once existed. 

But to return to the effects of the resisting medium. Owing to its 
retardation, the approach of these bodies to the sun is gradual, and 
on this hypothesis a calculation similar to the former would give the 
result that the sun must be covered to a depth of sixty feet in a year, 
or a mile in about eighty-eight years, which would occasion an in- 
crease of 1" apparent diameter in 40,000 years — a change, of course, 
utterly inappreciable to observation. 

The amount of matter thus abstracted by the sun would be equal 
to the mass of the earth in about forty-seven years; but it is quite 
conceivable that a quantity of one hundred times this amount would 

'British Association, Hull Meeting, 1S53. 



882 RADIANT HEAT. 

not bo missed from the zodiacal light. Thus the sun's heat might be 
kept up for five thousand years to come at least. This transfer of 
matter to the sun coming from a source within the earth's orbits 
would not affect the conditions of the system as to the effects of gravi- 
tation. 

Some meteors may possibly come direct on the sun from the extra- 
planetary spaces, but the quantity of such is probably very small in 
comparison with those that have been revolving in approximately 
circular or elliptic orbits before falling in. 

If we imagine a dark body moving through space and coming into 
a locality abounding with meteors, their impact may raise it to incan- 
descence, which will cease when it moves out of that space. Thus 
the author suggests a possible explanation of variable stars. 

(Addition I.) The author gives a calculation of the quantity of 
matter necessary to be added to the sun on the extra-planetary hy- 
pothesis, and finds it gives too great an increase of central force to 
consist with the historical conditions of the earth's motion. He con- 
cludes the supply must have been from within the earth's orbit for 
thousands of years at least. 

(Addition II.) He shows that the resistance must be very small 
even close to the sun, since such light bodies as comets pass through 
it at perihelion. 

The solar atmosphere may be conceived to be carried round in a 
vortex by these revolving masses, but not more rapidly than a planet 
would be at the same distance. Hence the meteors must long con- 
tinue to revolve before reaching the sun, and must get so near as to be 
completely evaporated before they fall in. 

Hence the solar heat is produced, not by solids impinging on the sun, 
hut by the violent friction of tJie rotating vortex of evaporated meteoric 
matter. 

(Addition III.) The temperature of the different parts of the sun's 
surface may undergo great changes from the eddies and streams oc- 
curring in this revolving mass. Hence many of the appearances of 
the solar spots and streaks, &c. 

(Addition IV.) ' ' On the age of the sun." At the rate of meteoric 
incorporation above calculated, the present rotation of the sun would 
be produced from rest in thirty-two thousand years. We may infer 
(since it appears very improbable that the sun has had a contrary 
rotation destroyed by meteoric incorporation) that the kind of agency 
now going on cannot have been going on and alone generating heat 
at the present rate for more than that period. For the future we 
know that the mass of the zodiacal light is small, in comparison with 
that of the sun, from its producing no sensible perturbation on the 
planets, and we may be sure it cannot keep up the supply for three 
hundred thousand years. The sun's rotation has been by no means 
accurately determined; it may possibly vary to an amount which fu- 
ture observations may detect, and thus test the theory. 



RADIANT HEAT. 383 



Density of JEther. 

Another speculation,* closely connected with, the former and the 
general subject of radiation, has been pursued by the same author, 
on the probable density which can be assigned to the luminiferous and 
caloriferous aether. 

This speculation is founded, like the former, on the data furnished 
by Pouillet' s Researches on the Solar Radiation, and Joule' s theory 
of the mechanical energy equivalent to the effect of heat produced. 
The calculation turns on the assumption that the velocity of vibration 
can only be a small fraction (probably not one-fiftieth) of the velocity 
of the propagation of waves, and from the velocity of vibration we may 
calcuate the density, or conversely. 

Hence the author conceives that we may assign a limit, and that a 
cubic foot of luminiferous (ether, at the distance of the earth from the sun 

cannot contain less than f 15(jo v ini? I of one pound of matter. 

With regard to the results of Professor Thomson, especially when the 
novel character of some- of the reasonings is taken into account, some 
difference of opinion may reasonably be expected. There are certainly 
many considerations involved which might suggest important topics of 
discussion. On these it is not my purpose to enter. I will merely re- 
mark, that in all these investigations the essential point is the expendi- 
ture of mechanical energy in producing vibrations, of whatever kind. 
The whole question then assumes a more strictly mechanical aspect. 
The sure indication that this entire branch of science is in a state of 
approximation at least towards that stage which characterizes the 
perfection of any branch of physical knowledge, when all its varied 
phenomena shall be shown to be susceptible of analysis up to simple 
combinations of the elementary laws of force and motion. 

I would merely add that, in speaking of the effect of the evolution 
of heat, there is nothing in Professor Thomson's conclusion which 
restricts them to any one species of heat. The essential point is the 
production of vibrations: and his results are thus in entire accordance 
with the theory which refers all kinds of heating effect to the stop- 
page or absorption of rays; in other words, the extinction or destruc- 
tion of the vibratory motions, constituting rays of different wave- 
lengths, some of which are also within those limits, and belong to that 
part of the scale,- which renders them capable of affecting our eyes 
with the sensation of vision; which (as already remarked) considera- 
tions on all hands seem now tending to show is the most probable 
hypothesis on the subject. 

Eadiation of Heat from the Zodiacal Light and from tlue Comet of 1843. 

Some interesting observations on these points are given by M. 
Matthiessen in the " Comptes Rendus," April, 1843, (vol. xvi, p. 687.) 

* Professor W. Thomson " On the Possible Density of the Luminiferous Medium," &e.' 
Transactions of tha Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. xxi, Part I. 



384 RADIANT HEAT. 

On the 27th of March M. Matthiessen placed at the focus of a con- 
cave mirror of one metre diameter an air -thermometer, which showed 
a similar rise above its indication in other positions, when the axis of 
the mirror was directed to the zodiacal light. 

He next ^substituted for the thermometer a thermo-electric pile 
with great precautions; which, having its condensing cone 

Directed to the nucleus of the comet, gave a deviation of 2° 

Directed to the zodiacal light near its summit 10° 

Directed to the zodiacal light at base 12° 

Directed to the part of sky over the sun 3° 

In other directions 0° 

On removing the condensing cone to try whether the effect was due 
to atmospheric causes, he still found towards the base of the zodiacal 
light 2° or 3°. 

Instead of the mirror he next used a flint-glass lens, 56 centim. 
diameter, 16 centim. focal length. 

With the thermo-electric pile, as before, this gave, 

Directed to zodiacal light, summit 2° 

Directed to zodiacal light, base 4° 

Directed to sky over sun ' 0° 

With a tallow candle at 10 metres distance (whether with the lens 
is not stated, but probably with it, as the experiments would not 
otherwise be comparable) — 

With the condensing cone, deviation 15° 

This, he observes, shows "combien est minime la quantite de 
chaleur envoyee par la lumiere zodiacale, et que T influence de la 
comete doit etre reellement imperceptible par notre temperature.' 7 

It was perhaps this somewhat ambiguous sentence which led Hum- 
boldt to represent these experiments as showing no sensible effect due 
to the zodiacal light. — (" Cosmos," Note 98, p. 394, vol. 1, Sabine's 
translation.) 

In the face of the experiments, however, we must adopt another 
interpretation; and perhaps what the author means is the distinction 
between the radiant heat affecting the thermoscope, and the temperature 
communicated to the atmosphere; which are manifestly different things. 

The experiment with the candle, if made (as seems to be implied) 
with the lens, is an important verification of the fact of the heating 
power belonging to light from terrestrial sources. 

The result with the zodiacal light also shows that at least a portion 
of its effect is of this species, and not dependent on its mere loss of 
heat as a hot body cooling. 

It is, however, but right to add, that indications of such extreme 
delicacy as those here referred to have been looked upon by some 
physicists as almost too liable to uncertainty to be entirely trust- 
worthy. 



MAGNETIC ORSERVATORY. 385 

DESCRIPTION OF THE MAGNETIC OBSERVATORY 
AT THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

[This observatory is supported at the joint expense of the Smithsonian Institution and 
the Coast Survey. The description h< re given is by J E Hilgard, esq , who had charge 
of the observations ] 

The instruments of this observatory are designed to give, by means 
of photographic self registration, a continuous record of the varia- 
tions in the direction and intensity of the earth's magnetic force. 
They are similar to those employed for the same purpose at the 
Greenwich, Paris, and other European observatories, and also at 
Toronto, on this continent, and consist of a freely suspended decli- 
nation magnet, a hifiXar magnetometer, after Gauss' design, and a bal- 
anced magnetometer, after Lloyd; each provided with the apparatus 
for photographic self-registration, invented by Mr. Chi rles Brooke, 
under whose direction the instruments were constructed, as has been 
heretofore stated in the reports of the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution. 

The general plan of the photographic registry is as follows: each 
magnet carries a concave mirror, (speculum,) in one of the conjugate 
foci of which is placed a source of light; a pencil of rays is re- 
flected by the mirror, and concentrated in the other focus upon a 
sensitive sheet of paper wrapped about a cylinder, which revolves in 
a certain time about an axis parallel to the direction of the changes 
of the magnets. The point of light traces a curve corresponding to 
the movements of the magnet; the angular value of the ord mates 
of the curve is, of course, measured by a radius equal to twice the 
distance of the mirror from the cylinder; or, in other words, we have 
an index for the movements of the magnet equal to twice that 
distance; which index or tracer, being without inertia, and acting 
without flexure or friction, is vastly superior to any mechanical 
arrangement by which such registry could be effected. 

The magnetic observatory is contained in a small building expressly 
constructed for the purpose, situated about 150 yards southeast from 
the south entrance of the Smithsonian Institution. No iron \\i ; -ever 
has been used in its construction- — copper or brass being employed 
where metal was necessary. The instrument-room, occupying a - pace 
of twelve by sixteen feet, is wholly beneath the surface of the j2 1 mind; 
it is closed in by an nine-inch brick wall, between which aid the 
outer wall of two feet in thickness a space of two feet intervei ss on 
three sides. This space is covered in at the surface of the ound 
by a coping, with a grating at two corners, and communical t the 
bottom with the instrument-room by small air passages. A nsid- 
erable uniformity of temperature is thus secured, as the an is to 
descend about nine feet before it enters the room. A the 

north side of the room, communicating with a chimney, sei n the 
requisite ventilation. On the fourth (the south) side of the m is 
the door and an ante-chamber, into which the stairs dese< and 

where there is a trough with supply of water from a cistern per- 

forming the rinsing and washing necessary in the photo oitic 
25 



386 



MAGNETIC OBSERVATORY AT 



operations. The upper part of the building is occupied by a similar 
ante-room and a laboratory, where the preparation of the sensitive 
paper and other photographic operations are performed. A soapstone 
stove, with copper pipe, supplies in winter the necessary warmth to 
the room. The windows have close shutters, with an opening cor- 
responding to a yellow pane of glass, which admits sufficient light for 
operating in the room, while it in no degree affects the sensitized paper. 
No sunlight whatever penetrates to the instrument-room, which is 
only dimly lighted by the reflection at the ceiling of the burners used 
for the registration. 

GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF INSTRUMENT ROOM. 

The annexed diagram, Fig. 1, illustrates the disposition of the 
instruments. D is the declination magnet; H the horizontal force, 
and V the vertical force magnetometer; the letter n designates the 
north end of each magnet; the declination magnet being suspended 




Plan of instrument room. 



freely in the magnetic meridian, the horizontal force magnet in a 
bifilar torsion-balance, with its north end to the west, and the bal- 
anced vertical force magnet attached to a beam resting on knife- 
edges, with its north end to the east. The line joining the centres 
of D and H makes an angle of 35° 16' with the magnetic meridian, 
according to Lloyd's theorem, for the position in which small changes 
of direction in one magnet will have no effect upon the other. In 
6, b, b, on the gas-burners, from which the recording pencils of light 
emanate, which are reflected by concave mirrors attached to the 
magnets, and concentrated upon the record cylinders r, r, r. Bach 
magnet carries, besides, a small plane mirror, by means of which 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



387 



scale-readings are obtained on fixed scales attached to the reading 
telescopes t, t, t, the permanence of the direction of which is checked 
by reference marks on the opposite wall of the room. 

The three instruments are supported on brick piers 16 X 16 inches, 
having no connexion with the floor, while the reading telescopes and 
the record cylinders for D and H rest on wooden brackets bolted to 
the wall; the record cylinder V is supported on a wooden stand which 
rests on the floor, as do also the tripods which support the gas- 
burners. The centres of the mirrors and of the cylinders are all in 
one horizontal plane three feet above the floor. The distance from 
each mirror to its record cylinder is 9 feet 6 inches, affording a scale 
value of one-fifteenth of an inch to one minute of angular motion of 
the magnet. The distance from burner to mirror is about 28 inches. 



DECLINATION INSTRUMENT. 



Fig. 2. 



Pig. 2 is a side view, on a scale of 
one-tenth the actual size, of the in- 
strument for recording the changes 
in the declination. A marble slab 
sustains a frame made of brass tubes, 
supporting a top piece, from which 
the magnet is suspended by a bundle 
or skein of parallel silk fibres. The 
suspension skein is enclosed in a glass 
tube, and the magnet, with its attach- 
ments, is also enclosed in a case with 
sides of plane plate glass. The top 
pane is likewise covered over by a 
round glass cap. The magnet is 9 
inches long, 1£ inch wide, £ inch 
thick, and is held by a clamping 
frame, the upper part of which 
carries the hook by which it is sus- 
pended, w r hile to the lower part is 
attached the frame which holds the 
speculum and the plane mirror for 
scale readings. In Fig. 2 the specu- 
lum is seen edgewise; compare, also, 
Fig. 4 below, which gives a front 
view. The mirror frame is pivoted 
to the carrier, and is held in position 
by a tangent screw, by means of 
which its direction can be nicely 
adjusted to any part of the record 
cylinder. 

The magnet is closely surrounded 
by a copper "damper," which, acting 
by induction when the magnet is in 
motion, checks the vibrations occa- 
sioned by the changes of direction, 
and keeps the oscillations within nar- 




J2ia:n ofjjamoei-. 

Declination instrument. 



388 



MAGNETIC OBSERVATORY AT 



row limits. A screw at the top of the frame serves to adjust the 
magnet to the proper height. The circular top plate is graduated 
on its edge, and can be revolved about a central collar, by which 
means the suspension skein can be turned through any desired angle. 
In order to take out all twist, when the instrument is first mounted 
a bar of lead of the same weight as the magnet is suspended in its 
place, and after it has found its position of rest, the upper plate or 
"torsion circle" is turned until the bar comes to rest in the magnetic 
meridian. After suspending the magnet the effect of torsion of the 
suspension skein on the scale value is determined by turning the 
torsion circle through 90° on either side of its proper position, find 
observing the change of direction produced on the magnet. The 
ratio of this deflection to 90° is the proportion in which all observed 
variations recpiire to be increased, in order to correct for the resist- 
ance of the suspension skein to torsion. 

SOURCE OP LIGHT AND METHOD OF REGISTRATION. 

Gas is brought to the magnetic observatory in a leaden pipe from 
the main which supplies the Smithsonian Institution. Before reaching 
the burners it is made to pass over naptha exposed in a suitable 
vessel, by which means it gives a more white and brilliant light. 
The shape of the burners is that known as fishtail, and they are so 
placed that the plane of the burner makes a small angle with the 
direction to the mirror, in order to allow light from the whole width 
of the flame to reach the mirror through the narrow aperture of the 
chimney which surmounts it. This chimney is an oblong blackened 
copper tube, having a small opening about one-tenth of an inch wide 
and half an inch high on the side towards the mirror, and close to 
this opening, on the outside of the chimney, is a screen, with a 
narrow rectangular slit, adjustable in width by a sliding plate. A 
good working width of this slit is found to be a little over one hund- 
redth part of an inch by four-tenths of an inch in height, which forms 
the beam of light, a magnified image of which is thrown upon the 
Just before reaching the cylinder this beam is 
o received upon a pair of 



record cylinder. 



cylindrical lenses, seen in 
section in fig. 3, by which 
it is refracted to a focus 
of about one -twentieth 
of an inch diameter, 
which makes the pho- 
tographic trace. By 
this ingenious arrange- 
ment a sufficient quan- 
tity of light is concen- 
trated to produce a very 
good trace. The lenses 
extend the whole length 
! he cvlinder, and are 

mounted in a frame, which can be removed and replaced in position 

e very time the paper on the cylinder is changed. 




THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 389 

The cylinder is 12 inches long, and as the space described on its 
surface, by a movement of the magnet of minute in arc, is equal to 
one-fifteenth of an inch — the distance to the mirror being 9| feet — 
we have room for recording variations to the extent of 180' or three 
degrees, which will be approached only in extraordinary disturbances. 
The diameter of the cylinder is 85 inches, and it revolves by the 
action of a time-piece once in twenty-four hours, giving a time-scale 
of a little over one inch for each hour. The cylinder is made of light 
staves of white pine, truly turned on its axis, and coated with shellac 
varnish, which protects the sensitized paper from the reaction of 
organic acids in the wood. In order to secure still further this pro- 
tection, the cylinder is covered by a sheet of stout drawing paper, 
which is replaced by a new one from time to time. Mr. Brooke uses 
glass cylinders, selected from Fiench glass shades for covering vases, 
&c; and this material certainly has the advantage of not in any way 
reacting on the sensitive preparations, and of being most readily kept 
clean. But it is so difficult to obtain them of true and uniform figure 
that the means before mentioned have been resorted to, and with 
good success. Of a dozen glass cylinders sent with the instrument, 
but two arrived unbroken, and these are used for the vertical force 
register, while the wooden cylinders are used for the declination and 
horizontal force. Each cylinder is driven by a clock-train, regulated 
by a seconds pendulum with wooden rod, and revolves once in twenty- 
four hours. It is covered with a blackened copper case, having a 
narrow slit through which the pencil of light strikes the paper, as 
seen in figure 3. 

PHOTOGRAPHIC PROCESS. 

The record paper is prepared by immersing it first in a solution 
of iodide of potassium — half an ounce of iod. potass, to ten ounces of 
water. After drying it thoroughly in the air, one side of the sheet is 
carefully floated on a solution of nitrate of silver — 320 grains of 1 used 
gray lunar caustic, (or nitrate of silver,) perfectly free from acid, in 
10 ounces of water — for \\ minute, and after being allowed to drain 
a little while by being held up by one corner, it is washed in several 
changes of water, for which cistern water will do well enough, and 
hung up to dry in the dark. A number of sheets may be prepared 
at one time in this manner, and preserved for use in a dark place for 
ten or twelve days. 

When required for use one of these sheets is wrapped about the 
cylinder, which for that purpose is taken out of its bearings and 
placed upon similar supports attached to a table in the laboratory. 
It has been customary to fasten the ends by a paste made of gum- 
arabic dissolved in acetic acid; but two elastic bands clasped around 
the sheet, one at each end, are found quite sufficient, and much more 
convenient. The cylinder being replaced in its bearings, and con- 
nected with the clock movement, a mark is drawn across the edge or 
joint of the sheet with a hard pencil, which, when the sheet is un- 
rolled, furnishes points for drawing a line of abscissas, on which the 



390 MAGNETIC OBSERVATORY AT 

time is measured, and from which the ordinates of the curve are sub- 
sequently read off. The cover is next put on, and the lens-frame put 
in position by stops on the base, to which the supports of cylinder 
and the clock are attached. Observing the place where the point of 
light now strikes the paper, a pencil mark is made, then the time 
noted, and a corresponding reading taken in the telescope on the 
fixed scale, which for that purpose is illuminated by a candle held in 
the hand. 

After the lapse of 24 hours, less about 5 minutes, a similar reading 
is taken, the time noted, and a corresponding pencil mark made on 
the trace. The cylinder is then lifted out, the sheet taken off, and 
a new one immediately put on and started as before. 

The former sheet is then floated on a saturated solution of gallic 
acid, to which a small quantity of the nitrate of silver solution has 
been added, and allowed to remain from 10 to 20 minutes, until the 
trace is distinctly brought out. After being next rinsed several times 
with pure water, it is soaked for 15 minutes in a solution of liyposul- 
pltite of soda — one ounce to ten ounces of water — to fix the trace; 
and, lastly, the excess of hyposulphite is thoroughly washed off, and 
the sheet allowed to remain in pure water until next day's operations 
have brought the following sheet to the same stage. The former 
sheet is then allowed to drain, and is thoroughly dried, exposed to 
the air on a flat piece of glass, to which it adheres, and is thus kept 
from wrinkling or warping. 

TABULATING THE RECORD. 

The trace is usually a Avell defined black line of about the twentieth 
part of an inch in breadth, with somewhat pale margins or edges. 
The middle of the line can readily be estimated to the nearest hun- 
dredth of an inch by a practised reader. Having the time and scale 
readings corresponding to the beginning and end of the trace, and 
the direction of the time-scale, it is easy to lay off points at each end 
of the sheet corresponding to a certain average scale-reading — 600— 
through which points a line of abscissa? is drawn with pencil. In 
order to read off the ordinates or scale-reading for every half hour, or 
oftener, when the character of the trace makes it desirable, a scale 
of half hours is applied to line of abscissa?, and the corresponding 
ordinates read off on the edge of a square divided into spaces corres- 
ponding to minutes of arc for the declinometer, and to one ten-thou- 
sandth part of the force for the other two instruments. 

The process of preparing the paper and subsequent operations are, 
of course, precisely the same for the three instruments. All three 
sheets are taken off and replaced in rapid succession before the bring- 
ing out of the traces is proceeded with. 

BIFILAR MAGNETOMETER OR HORIZONTAL FORCE INSTRUMENT. 

This instrument is designed to exhibit and record the variations in 
the horizontal component of the earth's magnetic force. To that end 
the magnet is constrained by a twisted suspension by two threads to 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



391 



assume a position nearly at right angles to the magnetic meridian, 
when the horizontal force acting upon it at right angles small changes 
of force will produce proportional changes of direction, and the former 
may be measured by the latter. Figure 4 shows the instrument in 
outline. The framework is the same 
as in the declinometer above de- 
scribed. The magnet and attachments 
are suspended by a silk suspension 
skein attached to two hooks, and 
passing at the top over a glass roller, 
which turns on pivots in bearings sup- 
ported by the torsion-circle. The 
compound bar above the magnet, to 
which the hooks are attached, effects 
the compensation for changes of tem- 
perature, as will be specially described 
below. The force of the torsion-bal- 
ance depends upon the wp-per and 
lower distance between the threads, 
their length I. the weight iv, of the sus- 
pended mass, and the angle 0, by 
which the plane of the threads is 
twisted. If we designate, as is cus- 
tomary, the earth's horizontal force 
by X, the magnetic moment of magnet 
by ???, and half the upper and lower 
distance between the centres of the 
threads by a and b, respectively, we 
have the following equilibrium of 
forces: 

ml=j W, sin 6. 

From this equation is readily de- 
rived the simple and accurate method C 
of ascertaining the scale value of the 
instrument proposed by Mr. Brooke. 
Observing that any variations in the 
quantity Jmay be balanced by pro- 
portional Variations in W, he observes Horizontal force instrument or bifilar magneto- 

the change of scale-reading produced 

by adding to the suspended mass a small weight equal to its one 
hundredth part, and the same change on the scale, of course, corres 
ponds to a variation of one-hundredth part of the force. This space 
on the scale is divided into one hundred parts, in order to have as a 
convenient unit the ten-thousandth part of the whole horizontal force. 

Since the magnetic force ra of the magnet is diminished by increase 
of temperature, and vice versa, the indications of the instrument 
would be affected by this cause if some arrangement were not intro- 
duced to counteract and precisely balance its effect. 

Mr. Brooke's compensating apparatus consists of a glass rod clamped 




392 



MAGNETIC OBSERVATORY AT 



at its middle point to the centre of 
magnet, the axes of the rod and bar 
being parallel ; the free ends of the 
rod are enclosed in two zinc tubes, 
at the inner ends of which, where 
they nearly meet in the centre, and 
to their upper surface, two hooks 
^ are attached; two loops at the ends 
of the suspension skein are attached 
to these hooks, the skein passing 
over a pulley at the point of sus- 
pension. Towards either end the 
rod and tubes are connected by a 
movable clamp, by which the two 
may be clamped together at any 
required distance from the centre. 
It is evident that by elevation of 
temperature the free ends of the zinc 
tubes will be approximated to each 
other by a quantity equal to the 
difference of the expansion of the 
1 lengths of zinc and glass that inter- 
vene between the sliding clamps and 
the free ends of the tubes, and, con- 
sequently, that a diminution to the 
same extent of the distance between 
the lower ends of the suspension 
skein will take place. The varia- 
tion of the interval between the 
lower ends of the skein corres- 
ponding with any given variation of 
temperature may be made to bear 
any required ratio to the whole inter- 
val, first, by a due adjustment of the 
upper and lower intervals of the 
skein, and secondly, by varying the 
position of the sliding clamps ; that 
is, of the acting lengths of the ex- 
panding tubes ; the former may be 
considered as a coarse, the latter as 
8 a fine adjustment. The glass rod 
rests on rollers attached to the under 
surface of the tubes opposite to the 
hooks, in order that no jerking may 
be occasioned by the expansion or 
contraction of the zinc tubes. By 
these means the quantity b in the 
preceding formula may be made to 
vary by change of temperature proportionably to the quantity m with 
any required degree of exactness; so far, at least, as the variation of 
m is directly proportional to the variation of temperature. 




THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



393 



Figs. 5 and 6 show plan and elevation of the bifilar compensator 
two-thirds the actual size, a a, the magnet ; 6, the clamp, which 
attaches the glass rod to the magnet; c c, the zinc tubes enclosing the 
glass rod; d d, the adjusting clamps, consisting of two parts; the outer 
encircles the zinc tube, the inner passes and nearly fills the interval 
between the tube and glass rod. They are capable of sliding for 
adjustment when the screws are loosened ; when tightened, the rod 
and tubes are held together; e e, screws for adjusting the distance 
between the hooks h h; these should be withdrawn when the clamps d 
are fixed ; o o, fig. 5, are the ends of the clamping pieces interposed 
between the tubes and the rod. 

The proper dimensions of 'the compensator and its approximate 
adjustment are found by first ascertaining the temperature co-efficient 
of the magnet, experimentally, from its time of vibration at high and 
low temperatures, and calculating the corresponding proportions. 
The more perfect adjustment is made after the instrument is com- 
pletely mounted, by enclosing it in a box with a water-jacket, in which 
the temperature of the water can be raised to any required tempera- 
ture by heating a pipe connecting the inlet and outlet of the jackets, 
and comparing the variations of the instrument at different tempera- 
tures with the indications of another bifilar instrument, the temperature 
of which has been maintained comparatively constant. 

VERTICAL FORCE INSTRUMENT OR BALANCED MAGNETOMETER. 




Fia.9 



Fig. 8 




394 MAGNETIC OBSERVATORY AT 

This instrument is designed to measure and record the variations 
in the vertical component of the earth's magnetic force, to which 
end a magnet is balanced horizontally in a plane at right angles to 
the magnetic meridian, in which position its balance is affected by the 
vertical part of the force only, and variations in the latter will pro- 
duce corresponding proportional changes of direction in the position 
of the magnet. In the annexed diagram, fig. 7, is a top view, fig. 8, 
a side elevation, and fig. 9, an end view of the instrument, such parts 
being omitted in each as would confuse the representation. In fig. 7 
we see the balance beam, with speculum attached on the right, and 
magnet on the left hand, the latter surrounded by the copper damper, 
which is further shown in fig. 9, but omitted in fig. 8. The beam 
rests with agate knife edges on agate planes, and can be lifted off or 
let down upon the latter by means of a vertical sliding frame, (in 
fig. 8, and shown endways on the right hand,) which can be moved 
by an eccentric, operated by means of a key from the outside of the 
surrounding case. Whenever the instrument is handled for the 
purpose of adjustment or otherwise, it is lifted off the agates, and 
afterwards slowly lowered. There are attached to the beam two 
balls on screw stems, one for adjusting the balance, the other for 
adjusting the height of the centre of gravity, and thereby the value 
of the scale divisions. The small thermometer attached to the 
balance frames parallel with the magnet is for the purpose of com- 
pensating the effect of temperature. The whole instrument rests on 
a black marble slab, and is covered by a mahogany case, blackened 
on the inside, with glazed apertures for the speculum and plane 
mirror. 

In order to determine the scale value, according to Lloyd's method, 
we observe T h the time of horizontal vibration of the magnet in its 
frame with attachments; also T v the time of vertical vibration of 
the same on its knife edges. Then if F designates the vertical 
force, I the dip, D the distance from the mirror to the scale or 
paper, and x the space on the paper corresponding to a certain 
change of force d F, as, for instance, the one-thousandth part, we 
have — 

dF T h 2 u _ x 

— = ^ 2 X cot. I X ^ 

The compensation for temperature is effected by means of a ther- 
mometer, whose bulb and stem are so adjusted to the temperature 
and scale coefficients that the translation of a portion of the mercury 
towards the north end of the magnet by an increase of temperature 
will exactly counterbalance the loss of force in the magnet. This 
mode of compensation, also due to Mr. Brooke, enables us to compen- 
sate for the effect of the second as well as the first power of the change 
of temperature; for the statical moment of the mercury displaced from 
the bulb by any given elevation of temperature, as t, above 32° 
Fahr., may be represented by the same formula which expresses the 
temperature coefficients, namely, c t -}- e ft. 

For let iv be the weight of mercury contained in one degree of the 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 395 

tube, and let the tube be taken such that the distance from the centre 
of the bulb to the point 32° may be k c, and length of one degree 
2 k c, then at any temperature 32° -j- t°, the statical moment of the 
mercury displaced by a small change of temperature, d t, will be 
w (k c -J- 2 k e t) d t, and consequently the statical moment of the 
mercury displaced between the temperatures of 32° and 32° -f- t° 
will be (k c t -f- k e t 2 ) w. Let, now, v be the weight which, placed 
at an unit of distance from the axis of rotation, will represent the 
temperature for 1° above 32°, it will only remain to obtain the bulb 
of such a size that k w=zv. 

The value of v is to be determined, experimentally, by observing 
the displacement of the register line, or change of scale reading, 
occasioned by a small weight placed on the magnet at a known 
distance from the axis of rotation, and comparing it with the scale 
value of the temperature correction obtained in the usual manner, 
by horizontal vibrations at different temperatures. 

The slit in the screw before the burner for this instrument is, of 
course, horizontal, the axis of the record cylinder being vertical. 
The cylinder rests on a horizontal plate, which is supported on 
friction wheels, and driven by an arm below the stand connected 
with the train of a time -piece. 

In several papers in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal 
Society, from 1847 to 1852, Mr. Chaeles Brooke, F. R. S., has 
described the apparatus which is the subject of the foregoing paper, 
in the preparation of which the former have, of course, been largely 
drawn from. Those wishing to pursue the subject into its practical 
application should, by all means, read Mr. Brooke's memoirs, and 
are also referred to an interesting description of the self-registering 
instruments of the observatory at Toronto, by Captain J. H. Lefkoy, 
R. A., in Sillimart s Journal, May, 1850. 

Note. — Since the above article was prepared the instruments have 
been removed from Washington City to Key West, Florida, where they 
were put into operation in January, 1860, and where observations 
will be kept up for some years in connexion with the magnetic obser- 
vations of the United States Coast Survey, and in direct correspond- 
ence with a system of similar observations set on foot by the British 
government at various points in their possessions. Toronto, Canada 
West, being one of those stations, it was thought advisable to remove 
the Smithsonian station to a point as far south as practicable, as the 
long series of corresponding observations obtained at Toronto and 
Girard College, Philadelphia, in the years 1841 to 1845, left nothing 
further to be desired in the comparison of stations not any distance 
from each other. The observatory at Key West, and the objects of 
the system of magnetic observations at present in progress, will be 
noted in future reports. 



396 USE OF THE GALVANOMETER 



ON THE USE OF THE GALVANOMETER AS A MEASURING 

INSTRUMENT. 

BY J. C. POGGENDORFF. 



[Translated from Pog. Anual. LVI, p. 324, by John D. Easter, Ph. D.] 

The galvanometers in use correspond very imperfectly with their 
name, affording, as they do, a very uncertain and limited measure of 
the force of the current. Even within the first ten or twenty degrees, 
within which the deflection of the needle is usually assumed as pro- 
portional to the force of the current, the accurate determination of 
the relation between these elements is not so easy and simple, and 
beyond these limits the problem becomes so complicated that even 
its theoretical solution is extremely difficult. 

The determination is not absolutely impossible; it could be made 
by Ampere's formula if all the requisite data, (length and form of the 
coils, their position and distance from the needle, the size, shape, 
and magnetic condition of the latter,) were given, but the calculation 
would be extremely complicated and tedious. It would, even then, 
hardly repay the trouble, for the result would still be unreliable, on 
account of the probable errors in the determination of the data; and, 
even if it were quite correct, it would only have a specific value, for 
the calculation must be repeated for each instrument, and even for 
each position of the needle in the same instrument. For this reason 
no attempt has hitherto been made to form a theoretical scale of in- 
tensity for the galvanometer, but various empirical methods have 
been adopted, which, though they yield only special results, are 
preferable, because less tedious, and therefore more easily repeated, 
and capable of greater accuracy. 

Several such methods have been contrived by Becquerel, Nobili, 
and Melloni. They all require the use of a series of currents com- 
bined in various ways. With reference to this they may be divided 
into two classes — methods by combination and by difference. 

The simplest of the former is given by Becquerel. He attached 
to the galvanometer a thermo-pile, of which he set in action, succes- 
sively, one, two, three, four, &c.,' pairs of plates, by heating each 
alternate joint as uniformly as possible. According to the theory, 
the force of the current must also increase in a ratio, one, two, three, 
four, &c, and, consequently, the deflection of the needle correspond- 
ing to these intensities may be read off directly. This need only be 
marked on the instrument in order to establish the relation for all 
future cases.* 

This method proceeds on the principle of passing, successively, 
one, two, three, four, &c, currents of the same strength from the 

'-■ Traite" d' Electricity T. II, p. 24. 



AS A MEASURING INSTRUMENT. 397 

same source through the same wire ; but currents produced by one 
or more sources may also be made to act upon the galvanometer by 
several wires. This process requires a galvanometer with two or 
more wires. In other respects, the manipulation is the same as with 
the former process, but since the number of the wires, and, conse- 
quently, that of the currents which can be employed at once is limited, 
it requires several series of the latter to embrace the whole quadrant. 
It should be so arranged that the currents of one series shall produce 
the same effect as a certain number of currents of the next previous 
series, so that the several partial series may be combined into a gene- 
ral one. Both Becquerel and Nobili* employed this process. 

Melloni based his admirable experiments on the method by differ- 
ences. After satisfying himself that the deflection of his galvano- 
meter was proportional to the force of the current within the first 
twenty degrees, he determined the relation between these elements 
beyond this limit in the following way :f He attached to the galvano- 
meter a thermo-pile. and warmed one of its sides by bringing a spirit 
lamp near it until a deflection of 20° was produced. He then placed 
a screen before the lamp, and waited until the needle returned to 0°. 
He next allowed the radiant heat from a second lamp to fall upon the 
other side of the thermo-pile, and regulated the distance of the latter 
so that a deflection of 24° in the contrary direction was produced. He 
finally allowed both lamps to act simultaneously on the pile. lie 
now obtained by the difference of the currents a deflection not of 4°, 
but of 5.1°; he therefore concluded that the current which, from 
producing a deflection of 20°, he made equal to 20, must have in- 
creased 5.1 units to produce a deflection of 24°, and must therefore 
be 25.1. Increasing the activity of the pile by advancing first one 
lamp and then the other toward the pile, he determined in the same 
way the increase of the force of current for the intervals 28° — 24°, 
32 — 28°, <fec. After thus fixing a sufficient number of.points in his 
scale of intensity, he filled up the intervals by hand. 

Nobili had already used the same process with a galvanometer with 
two wires, through which be passed currents from two batteries in 
opposite directions — first separately, and then together. 

All of these methods are liable to considerable objections. Although 
not so tedious as a theoretical determination of the scale of intensity 
would be, they are still troublesome. They are, moreover, based on 
conditions which are difficult to fulfil, and for whose fulfilment we 
b ve no control. It is theoretically true that the strength of the 
rent in a thermo-pile is proportional to the number of the pairs of 
p : set in action by equal differences ; but we have no certainty 
; the difference of temperature is the same in all the pairs, or that 
the aie difference would produce the same effect in all. 

loni's method is probably the best of those named. But if the 
ob ' ation of Becquerel,:): that equal variations of temperature pro- 
die ■• hermo-currents of different intensity, according to their position 

e Pugg Annal. Bd. ix, S 346 and xx S. 226. 
f Idem, Bd. xxxv, S 132. 
| Idem, Bd. ix,S. 350. 



398 USE OF THE GALVANOMETER 

in the thermometer-scale, this method can evidently be applicable 
only to such slight differences of temperature and such feeble cur- 
rents as the Italian physicist used in his experiments. 

Besides this, the assumption that the current which produces a 
deflection of 24° must be 5. 1 stronger than one which produces a 
deflection of 20°, because, when acting in opposition to the latter, it 
caused a deflection of 5.1°, is only an approximation to the truth, 
based on the tacit assumption of the proportionality between the 
force of the current and the angle of deflection. If a, &, and b — a, 
be the forces which produce, respectively, the deflections «, /9, y, 
strictly taken, the ratio a : b = a : a -|- y can only exist when a : b=: 
a : ft. This method, therefore, requires that the difference between 
/? and a and the value of y should fall within the limits within which 
this ratio is approximately true. 

From what has been said, it will be clearly seen that no perfect 
method of determining the scale of intensity for the galvanometer has 
hitherto been given. It may be said, indeed, that none is needed, 
since the best galvanometer makes only a tolerable measuring instru- 
ment, and for accurate investigations we have the mirror-apparatus 
and the compass of sines. But these instruments are so costly as not 
to be within the reach of every physicist. There are, moreover, 
many experiments in which an accuracy of from one-half to a whole 
degree in the deflection of the needle is quite sufficient. 

I therefore believe that the description of a mode of arranging the 
galvanometer scale, which seems to me to satisfy all demands, will 
be welcome to many experimenters. My method is convenient, cer- 
tain, and susceptible of general application. It has also a decided 
advantage over all hitherto described, in requiring but a single cur- 
rent of uniform strength.* The principle of this method may be 
expressed in a few words. The deflections, produced by currents of 
different strength, passing through the coils of a multiplier lying in 
the magnetic meridian, can be deduced from those produced by one 
and the same current, passing through the same coils, at various 
inclinations to the magnetic meridian. 

The possibility of this will be seen from the following geometric 
considerations. The force with which the magnetism of the earth 
tends to draw back a needle which has been deflected from the 

*Prof. Petrina,in Linz, lias recently described a method (v. Holger's Zeitschrift fur Physik, 
Bd. I, s. 171) which has also this advantage, and is easily managed, but cannot be generally 
recommended, because it gives only approximate results. Prof. P. lays the ends of the wires 
of his galvanometer on the conducting wire of a constant battery, and then assumes that the 
force of the branch current passing through this instrument will be exactly proportional to 
the distance between the two points at which the conducting wire and the wires from the 
galvanometer touch each other. But this is not true If we designate by r the resistance of 
the portion of the conducting wire lying between the two points of contact, by r' the remain- 
ing resistance of the battery, and by r" the resistance of the galvanometer wire, we shall 
have for the force of the current passing through the latter, k being the electromotive force 
of the battery, the expression — 

kr kr 



r r' -\- r r" -^ r' r" r' r" -\- (r' -\- r") r 

from which it is evident that the force of the current is approximately proportional to the 
resistance r only so long as it is very small in comparison with r' and r". 



AS A MEASURING INSTRUMENT. 399 

meridian, it is well known, is the product of three factors — the inten- 
sity of the terrestrial magnetism, the magnetic force of the needle, and 
the sine of the angle of deflection. This force ma}^ therefore, be 
represented by a curve (31 N page 407) whose abscissas are the arcs, 
and whose ordinates are the sines of the arcs, or the products pro- 
portional to these sines. 

An analogous but inverted curve, i. e., increasing as the cosines of 
of the arcs, would represent the force with which the electrical cur- 
rent tends to deflect the needle, in traversing a straight or circular 
wire lying in the magnetic meridian, at an infinite distance from the 
needle or the diameter of its circle, when compared with the dimen- 
sions of the needle. At the same time, the intersection of these two 
curves, or rather the abscissa corresponding to it, would represent 
the deflection of the needle under the influence of both these forces. 

With the galvanometer the latter curve is much more complex, 
owing to the complicated form of the wire and its proximity to the 
needle. Its course is not known, but it is evident that it must have 
nearly the shape of a R in the figure. The problem is first to deter- 
mine the shape of this curve, and as this is theoretically impracti- 
cable, it must be done experimentally. 

This is done in the following way: Suppose a R to be the unknown 
curve. Its form could evidently be determined by moving it to the 
right and left along the axis of abscissas LR, and marking in each 
position the co-ordinates of its point of intersection with the curve 
M N, which ma}' be considered as given. Thus for the positions a R 
and a' r', we should have the points of intersection c and c', the ordi- 
nates c p and c' p 1 , and the abscissas M p and M p', and in order to 
obtain the form of the curve, the distance iv M would have to be added 
to, or subtracted from, the abscissas of the points of intersection in 
every position but the original one. 

This simple geometrical supposition may be readily and exactly 
carried out, if the coils of the galvanometer wire are movable in a 
horizontal plane. These instruments generally have such an arrange- 
ment, and it is then only necessary to fix an index near the coils, by 
which the amount of rotation may be read off.* 

Set the galvanometer so that the index and the zero line of the 
graduation shall be in the magnetic meridian, and the axis of rotation 
of the needle exactly in the centre of the graduated circle. Then 
pass a constant current through the coil so as to obtain a steady de- 
flection of 35° to 40°. A thermo-electric current is best suited to 
the purpose. 

This first angle of deflection represents the abscissa m p, and its 

* On my galvanometer the plate which carries the coil turns by means of a cogged wheel 
and an endless screw, on a metallic axis, working on metallic bearings. Such an arrange- 
ment is necessary in order to move it steadily. Strictly speaking, the support on which 
the needle hangs should be fixed to the plate, so as to turn with the coil, and thus eliminate 
the torsion of the thread; and secondly, the ends of the wire, which cannot turn, must be 
twisted together so as to be without influence on the needle, and pass out through a hole 
under the centre of the coil, as in the compass of sines. 



400 



USE OF THE GALVANOMETER. 



sine the corresponding ordinate p c. Now turn the coil to the left at 
an angle w 31. A deflection 31 p' is produced; therefore we have for 
the point c' of the curve, the abscissa w 31 -\~ 31 p' = w »', and the 
ordinate p' c' == sin 31 p'. Proceed in this way until w 31 z=z 90°, 
the deflection will then be 0°; and hence the abscissa =. 90°, and the 
ordinate = 0°. Turn the coil in the same manner to the right of the 
meridian, and mark the corresponding angles of deflection until the 
angle between the magnetic needle and the coil of wire is reduced to 
0°. This completes the observations. The sine of the angle of de- 
flection which corresponds to the last position of the coil, represents 
the first ordinate Ma of the curve. 

In general terms the process is as follows: Place the coil at an angle, 
w, with the magnetic meridian; the magnetic needle will then make 
with the coil an angle, ??, and with the magnetic meridian an angle, 
a = n -f- m, or n — m, according as m lies upon the same side of the 
magnetic meridian as n, or the contrary. If the several values of 
m and n be now distinguished by accents above or below, according 
as they belong to the former or latter position of m, we shall have 
the following results: 



Angle between the 
coil and the merid'n. 


Abscissas 


Onlinates. 


+m '" ■■■■ 





sin a'" = sin m'" 


+ m" 
-j- wi' 

— m, 


n" 
n' 
n 


sin a" == sin (n" -J- m") 
sin a' ■=. sin (n! -\- m') 
sin a — sin n. 
sin a, = sin (?; ; — m) 
sin a n = sin (n tl — m n ) 


- 90° 


90 






This determines the form of the curve which represents the effect 
of the coil of wire on the magnetic needle for a current of a certain 
strength, by means of the co-ordinates of the magnetic curve 31 N 
whose greatest ordinate, N M, is arbitrarily assumed. 

The form of the curve must next be determined for currents of any 
other strength. If it were necessary to repeat the process just de- 
scribed for every possible strength of current, the process would of 
course be entirely useless. But such a repetition is not necessary; 
the form of the curve determined for one intensity, enables us to de- 
termine its form for every possible intensity. 

It is evident that when the force of the current varies without any 
change in the relative distance and inclination of the coil and the 
needle, the influence of the coil upon the needle must vary in direct 



AS A MEASURING INSTRUMENT. 401 

ratio to the force of the current. Knowing, therefore, the form of 
the curve for a current of one intensity, we can obtain its form for 
any other intensity by lengthening or shortening all the ordinates in 
proportion to the force of the second current. Thus, if a R (page 407) 
be the curve for the intensity one, A R will be the curve for the in- 
tensity one and a half, all the ordinates of the latter being one-half 
longer than those of the former. 

If we suppose the curves for all intensities of the current which 
can be measured by the galvanometer to be delineated in this way, 
the main problem is still to be solved: to deduce the values of these 
intensities, or their ratio to the force assumed as unity, from the points 
of intersection of the curves with magnetic curve 31 iV, the co-ordi- 
nates of these points being given only by observation. 

The mode of doing this may be exemplified by the two curves a R 
and A R in the figure. According to what has been said, the forces 
of the currents which they represent will be to each other as P h : P C, 
or, what is the same, as p c : p k. It is now required to deduce this 
ratio from M p, p c, and 31 P, P C, the co-ordinates of the points of 
intersection c and C. 

Two cases must be distinguished: either the greater or the less 
intensity of current may be given, i. e., the upper or the lower curve 
may be known. Let us consider the first case. 

In this case we have to determine P h in the ratio P h : P C. If 
we imagine the curve a R, which is known, to be moved toward the 
left parallel to the axis of abscissas, its intersection with the 
magnetic curve will evidently fall lower down, and there will be a 
position a' r' in which its ordinate p' c' will be equal to P h. But dp' 
is the sine of M p\ i. e., the sine of a value of a for which the cor- 
responding values of m and n have been determined by the process 
already described. Moreover, P G is the sine of 31 P; but 31 P is 
equal to wp\ which is the value of n, corresponding to the given 
value of a. 

Therefore, the currents whose effects are represented by the curves 
a R and A R, and which produce the deflections 31 p and 31 P, when the 
coils lie in the meridian, are to each other as one of the values of sin 
a to one of the values of sin n of the table before given; i. e., if 
n, and m t be the special value of n and m, corresponding to the position 
a' r' of the lower curve, the ratio will be sin n' — ml : sin n'. 

In the same manner the value of p k may be determined, if the 
upper curve A R be that for which the table before given was made. 
We have onlv to imagine A R to be moved to the right, to a position 
A' R', in which C P' =p h. Then p k = O P' = sin 31 P' = sin (n -f m) 
and pc=z sin 31 p =. sin W P' = sin n. Now if ml and n' be the special 
values of m and n, corresponding to the position A' R' of the upper 
curve, we shall have for the ratio of the currents p c : p k z=z sin 
n' : sin (nf -j- m'). 

From this it is evident that, according as the force of the current 
to be measured is greater or less than that assumed as unity, the 
curve representing the latter must be moved to the right or left, 

26 



402 



USE OF THE GALVANOMETER 



until the abscissa of its intersection with the magnetic curve is equal 
to the abscissa of the intersection of the curve of the current to be 
measured, in its normal position, with the same curve. The sine of 
the latter abscissa, divided by the sine of the former, expresses the 
ratio of the current to be measured to that assumed as unity. 

Apart from geometric construction, this rule may be thus expressed. 
To measure the force of a current which is greater or less than the 
assumed unit, observe first the deflection produced by it when the 
coils lie in the magnetic meridian. Then turn the coils, in the former 
case backward, in the latter forward, until the angle between the 
needle and the coils is equal to this angle of deflection. The sine of 
this angle of deflection, divided by the sine of the angle of deflection 
produced after the rotation of the coil, is the ratio of the current to 
the assumed unit. 

It will be seen from this that if we have a table like the one already 
given, containing, for a certain current assumed as unity, all the 
values of n, or the angle made by the needle and the coil of wire, 
from 0° to 80°,' and the corresponding values of to, or the angle of 
the magnetic meridian with the coils, a second table may be con- 
structed from this which will give the ratio of the deflection of the 
needle to the current producing it, in terms of the same unit, for the 
case where the coils lie in the magnetic meridian. 

As examples, I give two such tables constructed for my galva- 
nometer. The current for the first was furnished by a small thermo- 
pile, made of two pairs of German silver and copper wires twisted 
together and heated at their alternate connexions in a sand bath 
over a spirit lamp. During the eighteen measurements made, which 
required not more than half an hour, the current was as good as 
constant. These measurements were only undertaken to illustrate 
the process, and I therefore sought neither after great accuracy nor 
completeness. The values of n could easily have been determined 
for every degree. 



Observed. 


Observed. 


to 


n 


n -f- to 


m 


• 

n 


n -f- to 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


+m 





m 


— 8 


40 


32 


+m 


5 


51J 


—19 


45 


26 


J-«l 


10 


53£ 


— 28£ 


50 


2U 


H-38J 


15 


53 £ 


— 37 


55 


IS 


+31£ 


20 


51J 


— 45| 


60 


14J 


-4-23£ 


25 


48J 


—54 


65 


11 


+ 13 


30 


43 


— 61 


70 


9 


-f 3 


35 


38 


—69 


75 


6 





36 


36 


—76 


80 


4 



The ratio between the deflections and the forces of the currents, 



AS A MEASURING INSTRUMENT. 



403 



when the coils lie in the magnetic meridian, as calculated from this 
table, is as follows: 



Deflection. 


Intensity. 


Deflection. 


Intensity. 


n 


sin. n 


11 


sin. n 




sin. (n -f- m) 


sin. (n -\- in) 


o 




o 







0. 0000 


40 


1.2130 


5 


0. 1111 


45 


1. 6130 


10 


0.21(30 


50 


2.0901 


15 


0.3220 


55 


2. 650S 


20 


0. 4370 


60 


3.5182 


25 


0. 5643 


65 


4. 7499 


30 


0.7331 


70 


6.0071 


35 


0.0316 


75 


9. 2408 


36 


1.0000 


80 


14.1180 



These tables, in addition to what has been said, will sufficiently 
explain the method. I will only remark here that the unit of force, 
which in this table corresponds to a deflection of 36°, is, within cer- 
tain limits, entirely arbitrary. Any current may be assumed which 
admits of n in the first table being made zero, i. e., the coils being 
brought into parallelism with the needle. By beginning with too 
strong a current this would of course be rendered impossible. In 
the example given above a rotation of 49£ was necessary to make 
them parallel ; the limit of this rotation would of course be 90°. 

In constructing the first table, on which the second is based, it is 
therefore necessary to make sure by a previous experiment that the 
current used is not too strong to admit of the needle and the spiral 
being placed parallel ; otherwise, the scale of intensity of the second 
table could not be extended down to 0° of deflection. It is also best 
to begin the values of m and n with this parallellism, that is, with 
the zero value of n, and to continue the rotation from this point until 
the value of n reaches 80°, or the point at which it is designed to 
stop. 

A feeble current gives the most accurate results in the lower part 
of the scale of intensity, and a stronger one in the upper ; two cur- 
rents may therefore be used, if desired, in constructing the first 
table. The stronger of the two need not give n = 0, but its strength 
must be such that the smallest value of n which it gives shall coin- 
cide with the greatest value of n from the other current, so as to 
obtain a complete series of values of n from 0° to beyond 80°. 
Moreover, the force of the current, in the scale of intensity obtained 
in either way, can of course be reduced to the unit of either, and the 
values not observed supplied by interpolation. 

The form of the curve which expresses the effect of the spiral on 
the needle for the unit nf force is determined by the values of n as 



40-4 



USE OF THE GALVANOMETER 



abscissas, and those of sin (n -f- m) as ordinates. 
by taking sin 90°= 100, we should have — 



In the present case, 



Abscissas. 


Ordinates. 


Abscissas. 


Ordinates. 


n 


sin (n -f- m) 


n 


sin (n -f- m) 


o 




o 







76.04 


40 


52. 99 


5 


78.20 


45 


43.84 


10 


80.39 


50 


36. 65 


15 


80.39 


55 


30.90 


20 


78. 26 


60 


24. 62 


25 


7-4. 90 


65 


19.08 


30 


68.20 


70 


15.64 


35 


61.57 


75 


10.45 


36 


58.78 


80 


6.98 



The curve aR in the figure is drawn from these values. They show, 
what is evident from a glance at the figure, that the culmination of 
the curve is not over the zero point, but over a point between the 
abscissas of 10° and 15°, and that it declines from this toward zero. 
If drawn out completely, i. e.. continued on the other side of the 
meridian to the abscissa of 90°, the curve would therefore have two 
maxima. 

This circumstance, which, so far as I know, has not hitherto been 
observed, is not caused by an error of observation ; I have satisfied 
myself of its correctness by repeated measurements. Nor can it be 
merely a peculiarity of my galvanometer, for it evidently arises from 
the space which is left between the coils for the purpose of intro- 
ducing the needle into the interior of the spiral. All galvanometers 
which have such a space must exert an influence on the needle which 
will be represented by a curve with two maxima, and few are with- 
out this space.* It is, however, no disadvantage, provided the de- 
pression be not too great ;t only, in consequence, the deflections will 
not be proportional to the force of the current, within the first ten 
degrees, as is usually assumed, but will bear a rather complicated 
relation to it. This is, however, a matter of indifference, for by the 



° It has already been observed by several physicists that every copper wire, even that 
which contains the least possible quantity of iron, is slightly magnetic, and therefore 
renders it impossible to place a really astatic needle parallel to the coils of the wire, when 
there is a space between the coils which offers two points of attraction. This observation 
induced Peclet, (Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. ser. Ill, t. II, p. 103,) to fill up this space and 
to hang the needle on a stirrup embracing the spiral. This arrangement would not show 
the above-mentioned depression, hut it has other disadvantages, e. g. , it lessens the ampli- 
tude of the needle very much, so that thtre is little probability of its general adoption. 

■j- If the depression were too great, it might happen that at one point the tangent of the 
curve would form a greater angle with the line of abscissas than the tangent of the mag- 
netic curve at the intersection of the two curves. The consequence of this would be, that 
this point would correspond to an instable equilibrium between the galvanic and magnetic 
forces, and there would be another point of intersection on each side of it, corresponding 
to a stable equilibrium. The existence of these three points of intersection of the curves 
a R and M N would make the empirical determination of the corresponding values of m and 
n very complicated. The space which is usually left between the coils of the galvanometer 
3, however, not great enough to cause so deep a depression of a R. 



AS A MEASURING INSTRUMENT. 405 

process described, no matter how involved the relation may be, the 
values of both the elements can be determined as accurately as the 
readings of the scale will allow, and at as short intervals as may be 
desired, so that all necessity for uncertain interpolations is removed. 

I have thus far, in common with all physicists who have investi- 
gated this subject, considered only one-half a R of the resultant curve. 
But it is easy to imagine that the half which lies on the other side of 
the magnetic meridian cannot, on account of a possible want of sym- 
metry in the form of the coils, or in the position of the needle, be 
unconditionally assumed as identical with the first half. If, therefore, 
it be desired to use the deflections of the needle on the other side of 
the meridian for comparative measurements of the force of the cur- 
rent, caution requires that the form of the second half of the curve, 
and the scale of intensity based on it, should be determined in the 
same way as the first. 

It must also not be forgotten that the effect of the spiral on the 
needle varies with the height of the latter within the former, though 
in the middle, where the maximum lies, a slight change in the height 
has no very perceptible influence on the result. For the sake of 
security it is therefore advisable not to change the height of the 
needle after having constructed the scale of intensity, and if it should 
have been accidentally moved, to construct the scale anew. The 
fixed index may serve to detect any change of height. 

The same must be done if there is any reason to fear that the mag- 
netism of the needle has changed perceptibly. The magnetism of a 
simple needle may, it is true, grow stronger or weaker without any 
effect on the measurements, for the action of the current on the needle 
then increases or diminishes in the same ratio. But the distribution 
of magnetism in the needle must not be changed thereby, i. e. , the 
magnetic intensity of every point of the needle must change in the 
same ratio, which cannot be assumed with certainty. If the galvan- 
ometer be furnished, as is usual, with two needles acting in opposite 
directions, its indications may be changed without any change in the 
magnetic distribution by a variation in the relative magnetic intensity 
of the two needles. 

For this reason it is absolutely necessary to test the scale of inten- 
sity of the instrument occasionally, especially after the passage of 
powerful currents through it; and therefore the mode of testing and 
correcting it must be a simple one. In this respect the method 
described leaves nothing to wish for. Prolix as the description of it 
may seem, in practice it is as simple as it is convenient. Half an 
hour is quite sufficient to make the measurements necessary for the 
construction of a table like that given on page 402, which, if the 
instrument has a steady position, and the force of the current does not 
vary, are as accurate as could be desired. 

Besides its convenience, this method has the great advantage of 
assuming nothing whose correctness is not perfectly evident. The 
method is certainly an empirical one, depending upon experimental 
data of a complicated nature; but in the use of these data it is strict 



40G USE OF THE GALVANOMETER 

and rational. Its results, therefore, cannot be more erroneous tnan 
the measurements on which they are based." 

The principle of this method is closely allied to that on which the 
use of the compass of sines is based. There is, however, a difference 
between the two methods. In measuring- with the compass of sines, 
the magnetic needle maintains constantly the same angle with the 
spiral; and as the point of suspension of the needle turns with the 
spiral the torsion of the thread is eliminated, and at the same time 
the great advantage is gained of allowing the needle any eccentric 
position in respect to the centre of the graduated circle without 
injury to the results. 

In the galvanometrical method described in this paper, the needle 
makes the same angle with the coils only while it is deflected by the 
currents to be measured. Before and after the action of these cur- 
rents it makes a different angle with the spiral, or none at all. On 
this account it is necessary that its axis, the prolongation of the 
thread, should pass through the centre of the graduation, so that the 
angles read off by the needle may be really those which it makes 
with the spiral, or with the magnetic meridian. The small size of 
the graduated circle on ordinary galvanometers renders it very diffi- 
cult to hit this coincidence exactly, and this method of measurement 
is. therefore, inferior in accuracy to that with the compass of sines. 

It may be objected that, as recourse must be had to rotation, it 
would be better to use the galvanometer at once as a compass of 
sines. If the former instrument were made on the same principle, and 
as accurately as the latter, this would certainly be preferable; but 
even the best galvanometers are only tolerable measuring instruments, 
and the small increase in accuracy which might perhaps be gained by 
this process is no equivalent for the trouble of turning the spiral at 
each measurement. Besides this, there are many investigations 
which, without requiring great accuracy, make it very desirable to 
be able to follow the variations in the force of the current from in- 
stant to instant. This cannot be done more conveniently or certainly 
than by a previously-constructed scale of intensity. 



Appendix. — In the foregoing paper the principle of the new method 
was illustrated, for the sake of clearness, by a geometric construction. 
It may be more concisely demonstrated in the analytical way, as fol- 
lows: Let the successive angles between the magnetic meridian and 
the spiral, with the same intensity /of the current, be represented 
by + m", -j- m', 0, — m n — m in • • • • and the corresponding angles 
between the magnetic needle and the spiral by n", n\ n, n n n ln 
The needle will assume, with the different values of the first angle, 
such a position that /, multiplied by an unknown function/ of the last 
angle, will be equal to a magnitude, M, proportional to the terrestrial 

* This assumes that the torsion of the thread and the influence of the ends of the wire have 
been eliminated in the way indicated in the note on page 39'J. 



AS A MEASURING INSTRUMENT. 



407 



magnetism, multiplied by the sine of the sum of two corresponding 
angles of each series. We shall therefore have : 

If{n")=zMsin{n"-\-m") 

If{ri)= Msin (n' + m') 

If\n ) = Msin (n +m ) 

If (n t ) = Msin (n t -f- n, ) 

If (n„) = Msin {n„ + m„) 

If, on the other hand, the coils lie in the magnetic meridian, and 

we pass through them successively currents of the intensity I". I', I, 

I', I", which produce the deflections n", n', n, n n n in we shall have 

I"f (n") = 31 sin n" 
I'f\n')z= 31 sinn' 
If (n ) = 31 sin n 
I l f(n l ) = 31sinn l 
I /l f(n IJ ) — 31 sin n n 

By eliminating the unknown functions, we obtain from these two 
series of equations the values of the intensities J", /'••••, correspond- 
ing to the deflections n", n' , referred to the normal intensity /. 




W' r l' p r J\ 

Figure to illustrate Poggendorft 's method of measuring with the galvanometer. 



408 EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 



ON OBSERVATION OF EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 



BY E. MALLET, ESQ. 



[Extracted from the Admiralty Manual of Scientific Inquiry, 3d edition, 1859.] 

The observation of the facts of earthquakes and the establishment 
of their theory constitute Seismology, (from <rettr[M$, an earthquake, a 
movement like the shaking of a sieve,) which has only become an 
exact science within the last twelve years. Its immediate and most 
important applications are to the discovery of the nature of the deep 
interior of our planet, and of the reactions of the interior upon the 
exterior, visible in volcanic action at the surface. 

Whenever a blow or pressure of any sort is suddenly applied, or 
the passive force of a previously steady or slowly variable pressure 
is suddenly either increased or diminished upon material substances, 
all of which, whether solid, liquid, or gaseous, are more or less elastic, 
then a, pulse or ivave of force, originated by such an impulse, is trans- 
ferred, through the materials acted on, in all directions, from the 
origin or centre of impulse, or in such directions as the limits of the 
materials permit. The transfer of such an elastic icave is merely the 
continuous forward movement of a change in the relative positions, a 
relative displacement and replacement of the integrant molecules or 
particles of a determinate volume, affecting in succession the whole 
mass of material. 

Ordinary sounds are waves of this sort in air. The shaking of the 
ground felt at the passage of a neighboring railway train is an instance 
of such waves in solid ground or rock. A sound heard by a person 
under water, or the shock felt in a boat lying near a blast exploded 
under water, are examples of an elastic wave in a liquid. 

The velocity with which such a wave traverses varies in different 
materials, and depends principally in any given one upon the degree 
of elasticity and upon the density. This transit period is constant for 
the same homogeneous material, and is irrespective of the amount or 
kind of original impulse. For example : in air its velocity is about 
1,140, in water about 4,700, and in iron probably, about 11,100 feet 
per second, all in round numbers. In crystallized or pseudo-crystal- 
line bodies, such as laminated slate or other rocks, the transit period 
may vary in three different directions. A very great retardation of 
this period is produced in solids whose mass is shattered or broken, 
even when the fissures appear perfectly close. Thus, if one stand 
upon a line of railway near the rail, and a heavy blow be delivered at 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 409 

a few hundred feet distant upon the iron rail, he will almost instantly 
hear the wave through the iron rail; directly after he will feel another 
wave through the ground on which he stands; and, lastly, he will 
again hear another wave through the air; and if there were a deep 
side-drain to the railway, a person immersed in the water would hear 
a wave of sound through it, the rate of transit of which would be 
different from any of the others, all these starting from the same point 
at the same moment. 

The size of such a wave — that is, the volume of the displaced parti- 
cles of the material in motion at once — depends upon the elastic limits 
of the given substance, and upon the amount or power of the origi- 
nating impulse. By the elastic limit in solids is meant the extent to 
which the particles may be relatively displaced without fracture or 
other permanent alteration; thus glass, although much more perfectly 
elastic than India-rubber, has a much smaller elastic limit. 

Nearly all such elastic waves as we can usually observe originate 
in impulses so comparatively small that we are only conscious of them 
by sounds or vibrations of various sorts, the advancing forms of whose 
waves are imperceptible to the eye ; but when the originating im- 
pulse is very violent, and the mass of material suddenly acted on very 
great, as in an earthquake, the size of the wave may become so great 
as to produce a perceptible undulation of the surface of the ground, 
often visible to the eye, and by whose transit bodies upon the earth 
are disturbed, (chiefly through their own inertia,) thrown down, &c. 

There is every reason to consider it established that an earthquake 
is simply '•'■the transit of a wave or leaves of elastic compression in any 
direction, from vertically upwards to horizontally in any azimuth, through 
the crust and surface of the earth, from any centre of impulse, or from 
more than one, and which may he attended with sound, and tidal waves, 
dependent upon the irnpjulse and upon circumstances of position as to sea 
and land. 7 ' 

Until this was clearly grasped the observation of earthquake phe- 
nomena, in the absence of a "guiding hypothesis, 1 ' was vague and 
useless. 

At present the objects and aim of Seismology are of the highest 
interest and importance to geology and terrestrial physics. It offers 
to us the only path to discover the real constitution and condition of 
the interior of our planet, and will become the key to open to us the 
true nature, depth of origin, and source of volcanic heat. In these 
respects one of the most primary objects of Scismometry is to arrive 
at a knowledge of the depth beneath the earth's surface from which 
earthquake shocks are delivered, i. e., the depth of the origin. 

The observer must form clear conceptions of the fundamental con- 
ditions of propagation of seismic waves. Fig. 1 represents a vertical 
section of part of the earth in the plane of a great circle, cutting the 
surface at h'h, and passing through the origin of impulse at A — Ap, 
being the prime vertical to that point whose depth beneath the surface 
is BA. The wave starts from the origin (assuming the earth's mass 



410 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 



homogeneous) with one normal and two transversal vibrations. Ne- 
glecting the latter for the present, the wave may be imagined trans- 




ferred outwards, in all directions in coneentric spherical shells, whose 
volume at the same phase of the wave is constant. The interval be- 
tween any two such shells, therefore, diminishes as r 2 , r being the 
mean radius, and the overthrowing energy of the shock in the direc- 
tion of r varies inversely as the square of the distance from the origin. 

The shock reaches the surface at B directly above the origin verti- 
cally, but for all points around that it emerges with angles getting 
more and more nearly horizontal as the distance measured on the sur- 
face increases. The intersecting circle of any one shell with the sur- 
face, which is that of simultaneous shock, is the coseismal line, or crest 
of the earth wave, circular (like the circles on a pond into which a 
stone has been dropped) if in a homogeneous medium, more or less 
distorted if in a heterogeneous one, such as constitute the various 
formations of the earth, but always a closed curve. The transversal 
vibration is transmitted outwards in the normal direction (Ac) more 
slowly than the normal one, which is one cause of the small jarring 
impulses often felt after the great shock. (For more complete infor- 
mation as to the physical and mathematical conditions, see " Jamin, 
Cour de Physique, 1858," 9th and 10th chapters ; Rankine's "Ap- 
plied Mechanics," chap. 3, sec. 1, and chap. 5, sec. 4, and passim; 
Dr. Young's Lectures, "Nat. Phil.," passim, but especially lectures 
8, 13, 31, 49, and 50; Herschcl, Art. Sound, " Encyc. Metrop. ;" 
Hopkins, Report, "Brit. Ass. Trans.," 1847-' 48 ; Mallet's Fourth 
Report. Facts and Theory of Earthquakes, "Brit. Ass. Trans." 
1857-'58.) 

Observers in earthquake countries should make themselves fa- 
miliar with the usual features, succession of events, and concomitants 
which, with a certain sort of regularity, apply to all earthquakes. 
Mr. R. Mallet's "First Report upon the Facts of Earthquakes," 
Trans. Brit. Ass. for 1850, gives these in a condensed and sys- 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 411 

ternatic form. The greatest shocks are not the most instructive, 
except as to secondary effects; but every great shock is usually fol- 
lowed by several smaller; the first should therefore be viewed as a 
"notice to observe " the latter carefully. Earthquakes must not be 
confounded, either with the forces producing permanent elevations of 
the land, or with these elevations themselves. "An earthquake, 
however great, is incapable of producing any permanent elevation or 
depression of the land whatever, (unless as secondary effects;) its 
functions of elevation and depression are limited solely to the sudden 
rise, and as immediate fall, of that limited portion of the surface 
through which the great wave is actually passing momentarily." 
The one class of phenomena must be held as distinct from the other 
as the rise and fall of the tide is distinct from the momentary and 
local change of sea-level produced by the waves of its surface. 

The phenomena of every earthquake may be divided into — 1st. 
Primary, or those which properby belong to the transit of the wave 
or waves through the solid or watery crust of the earth, the air, &c. ; 
2d. Secondary, or the effects produced by this transit; and both 
must be kept distinct from co-existent forces, such as those of 
volcanic eruption, permanent elevation or depression of land, &c, 
which, however closely they may be connected with the originating 
impulse of the earthquake, form no true part of it, though they 
usually complicate its phenomena. 

The centre of impulse, or origin of earthquakes, is generally con- 
ceived to be at and due to a sudden volcanic outburst, or sudden 
upheaval or depression of a limited area, or sudden fracture of bent 
and strained strata, or probably to the sudden formation of steam 
from water previously in a state of repulsion from highly heated 
surfaces, (spheroidal state,) and which may or may not be again sud- 
denly condensed under pressure of sea-water, or possibly to the 
evolution of steam through fissures and its irregular and per solium 
condensation under pressure of sea-water. This origin should be 
carefully sought for as to its nature and position. 

An earthquake may have its origin either inland or at sea; and as 
this may be, a different set of phenomena will present themselves. 
In the former case we may expect, in the following order : 1st. The 
Great Earth-ivave, or true shod', a real roll or undulation of the sur- 
face travelling with immense velocity outwards in every direction 
from the point vertically above the centre of impulse. If this be at 
a small depth below the surface, the shock will be felt principally 
horizontally; but if the origin be profound, the shock will be felt 
more or less vertically; and in this case also we may be able to 
notice two distinct waves, a greater and a less, following each other 
very rapidly: the first due to the originating normal wave; the 
second to the transversal waves vibrating at right angles to it. If 
we can find the point of the surface vertically over the origin, and 
the direction of emergence of the shock at a distant point, or the 
angles of emergence at two distant points, neither of which is 
vertically over the origin — i. e., in one coseismal line — we can find 
the depth of the origin from the surface by methods pointed out in 



412 EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 

Mr. Mallet's Fourth Report on Facts and Theory, &c., "Brit. Ass. 
Trans.," 1857— J 58, but which space will not permit of transcript 
here. 

An erroneous notion of the dimensions of the great earth-wave 
must not be formed from its being called an undulation; its velocity 
of translation upon the earth's surface is great occasionally in hard, 
elastic, and unshattered formations, probably as much as thirty miles 
per minute, and the wave or shock moving at this rate has been re- 
corded to have taken some seconds to pass a given point; if so, its 
length or amplitude is often several miles. Its altitude, however, is 
not great, and, as may be seen from Fig. 1, continually diminishes 
as the wave passes outwards from the origin. 

Before, during, or immediately after the passage of the great 
earth-wave or main undulation, a continuous violent tremor or short 
quick undulation (like a short chopping sea) is often felt. This may 
arise from secondary elastic waves accompanying the great earth- 
wave, (like the small curling or capillary waves on the surface of the 
ocean swell,) produced probably by comparatively minute or 
secondary impulses, due to the discontinuous and heterogeneous 
nature of the formations through which the normal wave has been 
propagated. Sometimes, however, a number of shocks occur so 
rapidly as to convey the impression of a continuous jar or tremor, 
and may be succeeded by one or more great shocks; this is probably 
the source of "tremor observed before the shock," as the subse- 
quent arrival of the transversal waves is of the tremors after it. 
(For other complications of the phenomena, see Mallet's 1st, 2d, and 
4th Reports, Brit. xVss.) It is very desirable that the interval in 
time between these minor oscillations .should be observed by a 
seconds watch, and also their total duration at each epoch of motion. 
Former narrators often confound the whole of each epoch of such 
rapidly recurrent shocks with one shock supposed to last a con- 
siderable time. 

2d. When the superficial undulation of the earth-wave, coming 
from inland, reaches the shores of the sea, (unless these be pre- 
cipitous, with deep water,) it may lift the water of the sea up and 
carry it along on its back, as it were, as it goes out into deep water; 
for the rate of transit is so great that the elongated heap of water 
lifted up has not time to subside laterally. This may be called the 
forced sea-wave; its elevation will be comparatively small, and a little 
less than the altitude of the earth-wave, when close to the shore on 
a sloping beach; and where the water is still, any observations that 
can be made as to the height of this fluid ridge will afford rude indi- 
cations of the altitude of the earth-wave or shock. 

Earthquakes, whether at sea or on land, seem to be only accom- 
panied with subterranean noises when strata are fractured or masses 
of matter rent or blown away at volcanic origins. Where such is not 
the case, the two preceding are the only waves to be expected from 
an earthquake of inland origin; but when fracture occurs, then at 
the moment of the shock, or very slightly before or after it, we shall 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 413 

hear, 3d, the Sound-wave through the earth; and at an interval longer 
or shorter after this, 4th, the Sound-wave through the air. 

Again, when the origin of the earthquake is under the sea, (and 
such seems to he the case with many great earthquakes,) we may 
expect in the following order: 1. The great earth-wave or shock; 
2. The forced sea-wave, which is formed as soon as the true shock 
or coseismal undulation of the bottom of the sea gets into shallow 
water, and forces up a ridge of water directly above itself, which 
accompanies it to shore, and which seems to be the cause of that 
slight disturbance of the margin of the sea often noticed as occurring 
at the moment of the shock being felt; 3. The sound-wave through 
the earth, (as in the former case;) 4. The sound-wave through the 
sea, which arrives after that through the earth, but prior to, 5. The 
sound-wave through the air. Where the originating force is not a 
single impulse, but a quick succession of these, or a single impulse 
extending along a considerable line of disturbance, passing away 
from the observer, the sound-waves will be rumbling noises, and 
may be confounded in each medium more or less; and where no 
fractures or explosions occur, the sound-waves may be wholly 
wanting. 

Lastly, and usually a considerable time after the shock, the great . 
sea-wave rolls in to land. This is a ivave of translation ; a heap of 
sea-water is thrown up at or over the origin of the earthquake by the 
actual disturbance of the sea-bottom, or in the direction, and by the 
emergence, of the eorth-wave beneath the sea at a large angle to the 
horizon, and begins to move oft" in waves like the circles on a pond 
into which a pebble is dropped; and its phenomena depend upon laws 
different from any of the other (elastic) waves of earthquakes. 

The original altitude (above the plane of repose of the fluid) and 
volume of this liquid wave depend upon the suddenness and extent 
of the originating disturbance, and upon the depth of water above 
its origin. Its velocity of translation on the surface of the sea varies 
with the depth of the water at any given point, and its form and 
dimensions depend upon this also, as well as upon the sort of sea- 
room it has to move in. In deep-ocean water one of these waves 
may be so long and low as to pass under a ship without being observed; 
but as it approaches a sloping shore its advancing slope becomes 
steeper, and when the depth of water becomes less than the altitude 
of the wave, it topples over, and comes ashore as a great breaker. 
Sometimes, however, its volume, height, and velocity, are so great 
that it comes ashore bodily and breaks far inland. The direction 
from which it arrives at any given point of land does not necessarily 
infer that in which the origin may be; as this wave may change its 
direction of motion greatly, or become broken up into several minor 
waves in passing over water varying much and suddenly in depth, 
or in following the lines of a highly-indented or island-girt shore. — 
(See Airy on Tides, Encyc. Metrop. ; Russel, Report on Waves, Brit. 
Ass., 1844; Bache, Great Sea Waves in Pacific, Amer. Jour. Science, 
vol. xxi, 1856; Mallet, 4th Report, 1857-58; Darwin, Voyage of 
the Beagle.) 



414 EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 

Observations of each of these classes of waves which we have 
thus briefly described may be made either directly by the aid of 
instruments, specially provided or extemporaneously formed, or indi- 
rectly by proper notice of certain effects which they produce on 
objects upon the earth's surface. 

Direct observations by complete self-registering seismometers do 
not come within our present scope. They will be found treated of 
at large in Mallet's 4th Report, Brit. Ass., 1857-58, where the princi- 
ples, roust ruction, methods of observation, and applications of the 
best known instruments are described. 

Whatever instruments be employed, however, it is found that per- 
turbations in the main directions of emergence at the surface, of the 
normal earth-wave, due principally to heterogeneity of structure in 
depth, and to inequality of surface, are such as to render a special 
choice of district necessary, in attempting- any seismometrical re- 
searches (even with perfect instruments) having- in view the determi- 
nation of the position of the origin or focus of disturbance. This 
choiee. according to our present knowledge, must be determined by 
the following conditions: 

1. The whole surface-area of observation must be, as far as possi- 
ble, uniform in geological structure, and so to as great a depth as 
possible. If of stratified rock, not greatly shattered and overthrown, 
but (viewed largely) level or rolling only. The harder and more 
dense and elastic the formation the better, but neither intersected 
by long and great dikes or igneous protrusions of magnitude, nor 
suddenly bounded by such formations. 

2. The surface must not be broken up into deep gorges, and rocky 
ranges, and valleys. Seismometry, in a. high and shattered moun- 
tainous country, can scarcely lead to any result but perplexity. If 
the surface be deeply alluvial all over, it is less objectionable than 
valley-basins and pans of deep alluvium, with rocky ribs between 
them. 

3. The size of the area chosen for observation must bear a relation 
to the force of the shocks experienced in it. Moderate slwcks are 
always best for observation, and in large areas of the most uniform 

'formation and surface will give the most trustworthy 
indications. 

-!. [f several seismometers are set up in the area they should be 
all placed on corresponding formations, either all on rock, or all on 
deep alluvium. The rock, when attainable, is always to be preferred. 
Three seismometers, at as many distant stations, will be generally 
found sufficient, if the object he chiefly to seek the focal situation 
and depth. 

We. therefore, proceed to observations with extemporaneous in- 
struments on the earth-wave or shock. The elements necessary to be 
recorded are such as will enable us to calculate: 1. The direction in 
azimuth of the wave's motion upon the earth's surface: and also its 
direction of emergence at the points of observation. 2. Its velocity 
of transit upon the surface. 3. Its dimensions and form — i. e.. 
amplitude and altitude. 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 415 

If a common barometer be moved a few inches up and down by 
the hand the column of mercury will be found to oscillate up and 
down in the tube in directions opposite to the motions of the instru- 
ment, the range of the mercury depending upon the velocity and 
range of motion of the whole instrument. A barometer fixed to the 
earth, therefore, if we could unceasingly watch it, would give the 
means of measuring the vertical element of the shock-wave: and if 
we could lay it down horizontally, it would do the same for the 
amplitude or horizontal clement. This we cannot do; but the same 
principle may be put into use by having a few pounds of mercury, 
and some glass tubes bent into the form of JL, sealed close at one 
end, and open at the other; the bore being under two-tenths of an 
inch in diameter, and each limb about fifteen inches long. We shall 
also require some common barometer tubes of the same calibre: the 
open end being turned up like an inverted syphon, and equal in bore 
to the rest of the tube. — (See Fig. 5.) The ^ tubes are used for 
the horizontal, the others for the vertical elements. 

To fit the | tubes for use fill each partly with mercury, and so 

""■ " Sealed end. 

adjust it that a column of five inches in length shall be 
in each limb of each tube, when held as in Fig. 2; the 
limb a b horizontal, and the vertical column being sup- Fig2 
ported as in a barometer. Tie four of these tubes so 

prepared together, back to back, so that if one hori- 

zontal limb face the north, the others shall face east, 




south, and west, respectively, as in Fig. 3. "In this position secure 
them all down upon a broad, stout board, 
that can be itself fixed to a surface of 
rock, or other fixed surface of the earth. 
An index or marker must now be pre- 
pared for each tube; for one of these, cut' 
a common piece of card two inches long wo 
by rather less than two-tenths of an inch 
wide, nick it partly through along a cen- «;< 
tre longitudinal line, and double it down the long way, so that the 
two segments shall stand at rather less than right angles to each other; 
cut a cylindrical slice of cork one-eighth of an inch thick, of a di- 
ameter such that it will go easily into the tubes; attach the bit of 
cork with glue or sealing-wax to the end of one wing or segment of 
the folded card, leaving the other free, and thrust the whole into the 
horizontal limb of the tube until the cork just touches the mercury, 
and so for the others. This marker is shown at rather more than full 
size in 

Cork. Free side. 



Attached side. 

The edges of the card, having a certain amount of elastic extension, 
must slightly grip the inside of the tube. 

It will now be found, if horizontal motion be given to the system 



416 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 



of four tubes — say, from south to north — that the marker in the 
southern tube will be pushed southward a certain space by the 
movement of the mercury, and will remain to point out the space 
when the mercury has returned to rest. If the motion be in some 
direction between two adjacent tubes — say, from southeast to north- 
west — the markers in the south and east tubes will both show a cer- 
tain motion, equal in this case, but in others with a certain ratio to 
each other, by which the direction between the cardinal points may 
be calculated. 

For the vertical element: let the barometer tube, Fig. 5, be filled 

with mercury so that about six inches shall stand in the 

open end a, into which thrust a marker, as in Fig. 4, and 

about twelve inches in the sealed limb; place this vertically, 

5, and secure it to a fixed mass of rock, a heavy low building, 

or large tree; from the amount co which the marker is found 

moved up in the tube the altitude of the wave may be found; 

and it is obvious that, by the conjoint indications of the four 

a horizontal tube-markers, and this vertical one, the direction 

I of emergence of the wave is determinable. 

tS These instruments are of the nature of fluid pendulums, 

» their use assumes the velocity of the earth -wave constant, 

i and, in common with all pendulums, they have certain dis- 

i advantages as seismometers. — (See Mallet, 4th Report Brit. 

Ass.) If 




'=•7 



be the time of oscillation of any solid pendulum whose length is I, 
then 



77 V 9 (sin- a 



-}- sin. a') 

will be the time of oscillation of any such fluid pendulum, a and a' 
being the angles of inclination of the limbs of the tube to the hori- 
Where these are parallel and vertical, sin. a = sin. a' =z 1 and 



zon. 



t =*V 



0-5 X I 



9 



They are much superior to common solid pendulums, where the 
dimensions of the shocks are small; but where these are great and 
very violent, heavy solid suspended pendulums will be found more 
applicable; the length of the seconds pendulum for latitude Green- 
wich will always be desirable. Where fluid pendulums are not at- 
tainable, a solid pendulum to answer some of the purposes may be 
thus prepared: Fix a heavy ball, such as a four-pound shot, at one 
end of an elastic stick, whose direction passes through the centre of 
gravity of the ball; a stout rattan will do. Fix the stick vertically 
in a socket in a heavy block of wood or stone, and adjust the length 
above the block as near as may be to that of the seconds pendulum 
for Greenwich. Prepare a hoop of wood, or other convenient mate- 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 417 

rial, of about eight inches diameter; bore four smooth holes through 
the hoop in the plane of its circle, and at points ninety degrees dis- 
tant from each other; adjust through each of these a smooth round 
rod of wood, (an uncut pencil will do well.) and make' them, by 
greasing, &c, slide freely, but with slight friction, through the holes. 
Secure the hoop horizontally at the level of the centre of the ball by 
struts from the block, and the ball being in the middle of the hoop, 
slide in the four rods through the hoop until just in contact with the ball. 
It is now obvious that a shock, causing the ball to oscillate in any 
direction, will move one or more of the rods through the holes in the 
hoop, and that they will remain to mark the amount of oscillation. 
A similar apparatus, with the pendulum rod secured horizontally, 
(wedged into the face of a stout low wall, for example,) will give the 
vertical element of the wave. Two of these should be arranged — 
one north and south, the other east and west. One objection to this 
and all apparatus upon the same principle is, that as the centre of 
elastic effort of the pendulum rod never can be insured perfect!} 7 in 
the plane passing through the centre of gravity of the ball for every 
possible plane of vibration, so an impulse in a single plane produces 
a conical vibration of the pendulum, and hence the ball deranges the 
position more or less of the index rods which are out of the true 
direction of shock. Moving the apparatus by hand, and a little prac- 
tice in observation of its action, will, however, soon enable a pretty 
accurate conclusion as to the true line of shock to be deduced from it. 
It will be manifest that the observer must record minutely the 
dimensions and other conditions of such apparatus, where not per- 
manently kept, to enable calculations as to the wave of scientific 
value to be made from his observations of the range of either fluid 
or solid pendulums. 

A common bowl partly filled with a viscid fluid, such as molasses, 
which, on being thrown by oscillation up the side of the bowl, shall 
leave a trace of the outline of its surface, has been often proposed 
as a seismometer. This method has many objections; it can only 
give a rude approximation to the direction of the horizontal element; 
but as it is easily used, should never be neglected as a check on 
other instruments. A common cylindrical wooden tub, with the sides 
rubbed with dry chalk, and then carefully half filled with water or 
dye-stuff, would probably be the best modification. 

Another extemporaneous instrument for measurement of vertical 
motion in the wave may be sometimes useful. Make a spiral spring 
of eighteen inches or so in length by twisting an iron wire of one- 
eighth of an inch diameter round a rod of about 1| inch diameter, 
(the staff of a boarding-pike ;) suspend it by one end vertically from 
a fixed point, and fix a weight (a twelve-pound shot will do) to the 
lower end, and below and in a line passing vertically through the 
centre of gravity of the weight fix the stem of a common tobacco 
pipe; let the lower end of this stem just dip into a deep cup filled 
with pretty thick common ink or other colored fluid; the action of 
this needs no description. 

The preceding instruments suffice at once to give the direction of 
transit of the earth- wave and its dimensions; its rate of progress or 
9.7 



418 EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 

transit over the shaken country remains to be observed, and wherever 
it may be possible to connect three or more such instruments as have 
been described at moderately distant stations, say 15 to 30 miles 
apart, by galvanic wires, so as to register at one point the moment of 
time at which each instrument was affected, the best and most complete 
ascertainment of transit rate may be expected. Galvano-telegraphic 
arrangements of the simple character required are become familiar, 
and are easily setf. to work. The best seismometer to which they can 
be applied (for voyagers) is that described in Mallet's 4th Report, 
&c. , page 87, and plate xv; and no surveying ship proceeding to 
earthquake regions should be unprovided with three such seismom- 
eters and the requisite time-recording apparatus. 

A still simpler form of rough seismometer suited to the resources of 
distant and isolated observers remains to be described. It depends 
upon principles altogether different from those already mentioned, and 
is most applicable to seismic districts where the angle of wave emer- 
gence is not steep — i. e., where shocks are usually nearly horizontal. 

Every body overthrown by an earthquake shock is upset by its own 
inertia causing it to move in the opposite direction to that in which the 
ground has moved under it. Thus a Avail falls towards the south if 
the shock passes across its length from south to north, and if any 
such homogeneous parallelepiped or right rectangular prism, standing 
on end upon a level surface, be so upset by its own inertia, the sup- 
porting surface being suddenly moved beneath it, in the direction of 
its own plane, (as by the horizontal component of an earthquake 
shock,) it may be shown that the velocity of the surface must be 

v* = i q I^Tw x n-™-°\ 

where a is the altitude of the solid, L its diameter of base or thick- 
ness, and 6 the angle formed by the side, and a line drawn through 
the centre of gravity to the extremity of the base and V = 2 g h. 
This velocity is independent of the density or material of the solid, 
because the oversetting force, being its own inertia, is always pro- 
portional to the density. 

This is the foundation of all accurate and useful observation of dis- 
located and overthrown buildings in countries that have suffered by 
earthquake, and by which not only may the direction of (the horizon- 
tal component of) the earthquake shock be obtained, but a close 
approximation made to its velocity. 

With a given velocity, V, therefore, it is possible to assign the 
dimensions a and b, such that the solid shall just overset, and with 
this velocity a similar solid, but having 6 greater, shall remain un- 
moved: assuming always, that friction against the supporting surface 
gives sufficient adhesion to prevent sliding. 

If, in place of a square prism, such as a wall, the solid be a right 
cylinder like a column, the diameter of its base being b, then 

•xro 15 b- -f- 16 a 2 w .-„-— — — ... a . 

V- = —J—^ X g a 2 -+- b~ (1 - cos 6). 

1 -I (If A / 

This gives the means of constructing a seismometer of great simpli- 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 



419 



city, that (in the absence of better means) shall give the horizontal 
velocity of shock within a norrow limit of error. 

Let there be constructed two similar sets of right cylinders — say, 
each set six to twelve in number — all of equal height (a) and of the 
same sort of material, but varying in diameter in each set, with a 
uniform decrement from the greatest to the least. 

Convenient dimensions for earthquake observations of mean inten- 
sity will be such that the cylinder of largest diamete^ shall have its 

altitude equal to three diameters, or b =z -' 7 and that the cylinder of 

Q 

least diameter shall have its diameter one -third of that of the greatest 
one, or 6 = q. Any number of cylinders of intermediate diameters 

Fig. 6. 

X6 




may be interpolated between, and the greater the number thie-more- 
accurate the instrument becomes. A series of six to ten in each set 
will, however, be sufficient for any purpose. For observation of 
shocks of extreme violence, larger diameters in proportion to- altitude 
should be chosen for all the cylinders. 

The material of the cylinders is not important — cast-iron, stone, . 
pottery, or other substances at hand — whose arrisses will not crumble- 
away by being overthrown — may be used; but no material will be 
found more convenient than some hard heavy seasoned wood, of uni- 
form substance, straight grain, and equable specific gravity, from 
which the cylinders can be formed in the lathe, and their bases 
brought perfectly square to the axes with facility. 

Upon any horizontal and solid floor let two planks be placed, as in, 
fig. G, with their directions in length respectively lying N. and S. and , 
E. and W., each plank to be about three inches in* thickness, and in 
width equal to the diameter of the largest cylinder, and its length. 



420 EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 

sucli that the set of cylinders when placed upright and equidistant 
thereon shall have a space greater than the altitude between each. 
Thus, if the cylinder of largest diameter have b = 0.5 of a foot, the 
length of plank will, for a set of six, as in the figure, be about 12 feet. 
These base planks being fixed level arid solid, the floor is to be levelled 
up with dry sand to their upper surfaces, and the two sets of cylinders 
adjusted to their places, one set running in an E. and W., the other 
in a N. and S. cUrection, so that in whatever direction the horizontal 
component of shock may move, the overthrown cylinders of one or 
the other set shall fall transversely to the lengths of the plank bases, 
and lodging on the sand-bed, remain exactly in the position as to azimuth 
in which they were overthrown. If now a shock of any horizontal velo- 
city, capable of overthrowing some of the cylinders, but not all of 
them, arrive, it will throw down at once all the narrower ones, and 
up to a certain diameter of base. For example, suppose a N. and S. 
shock of such velocity as to overthrow W 6, W 5, and W 4, leaving 
W 3, W 2, and W 1 standing, then V will have been greater than the 
velocity clue to the overthrow of W 4, and less than that due to the 
overthrow of W 3, and, within those limits, may be found from the 
preceding equation. The cylinders here overthrown, W 6, W 5, and 
W 4, will be found with their axes lying N. and S., at rest upon the 
sand-bed. The cylinders N 6, N 5, and N 4 will be also overthrown; 
but in this case they will fall in the line of their own plank basis, and 
may roll, and so give no indication as to direction of shock in azimuth. 
Hence the necessity for two sets of cylinders. One set, however, will 
be sufficient, if space enough be provided between the cylinders, and 
each be placed upon a cylindrical and separate basis of a diameter 
equal to its own, and in height equal to the depth of the sand-bed.. 

This form of instrument, then, is capable of giving approximate 
determinations of — 

1. The velocity of the horizontal component of shock, neglecting 
the vertical component, which may be done where the angle of emer- 
gence is not great. 

2. The surface direction in azimuth of the shock, or direction of 
horizontal component of the seismic wave. 

3. Its absolute direction of primary movement, viz: the direction of 
translation of the wave, which always coincides with the direction of mole- 
cular displacement of the wave itself in the first half of its complete phase — 
e. g., if a shock in N.S. azimuth throw the cylinders to the southward, 
then the wave has traversed from S. to N. 

4. The exact time of the transit of the shock at the instrument may 
be also indicated, if either the narrowest cylinders, N. 6 and W. 6, 
(which by hypothesis must be always overthrown,) be connected with 
a house-clock in the way about to be described, so as to stop it at the 
moment of overthrow, or, still better, if a separate cylinder of even 
less stability be appropriated to this purpose. 

Three such sets of instruments at distant stations may of course be 
easily connected by galvanic wires, so as to give the transit time at 
each accurately, and hence the transit rate. 

Three or more distant observers, with chronometers, may of course j+ 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 



421 



observe this, but such observations can seldom be very numerous or 
extend over a large tract of country, and without automatic instru- 
ments shocks are almost certain to be missed at one or more stations; 
yet it is most desirable that a network of such observing points should 
be stretched over the shaken country. For this purpose common 
house-clocks, situated at several distant points, may bo easily ar- 
ranged, so that the pendulum shall be brought to rest and the clock 
stopped at the moment that the shock passes. 

Fig. 7 shows part of the case and pendulum of a common clock. To 
fit it for this purpose, bore two holes <5f a quarter of an inch diameter, 
one through either side of the clock case, at a b, at the level of the 
lowest point of the pendulum-bob, and in the plane of its vibration; 
round off the edges of these holes, and grease them. 




In the centre of a piece of fishing-line or stretched whip-cord 
make a loop and pass it round the screw or other lower projection of 
the pendulum-bob; pass the two free ends of the cord out, one through 
each of the holes in the sides of the clock-case; provide a squared log 
of heavy wood of about five or six inches thick each way, and from 
four to five feet in height; cut both ends off square, and stand the log 
upright on one end directly opposite the dial of the clock. 

Measure off equal lengths of the cord at each side of the pendulum, 
and make fast their extremities to the two opposite sides of the up- 
right log, c d, close to the top; bring the log backwards from the 
clock now, until the pendulum being at rest, both cords are drawn 
tight; and then advance it two or three inches towards the clock, so 
that the cords may be slacked down into a festoon or bend at each 
side of the pendulum, and within the clock-case, so that the pendulum 
may have room to swing freely; and very slightly wedge the cord to 
keep it so, through the holes in the clock-case, and from the outside; 
see that the log rests firmly and upright upon a firm floor; and now 
set the clock going. The length of the cords, or the distance of _ the 
log from the clock in relation to its height, must be such that if it 
fall towards the clock it shall bring the cords up tight before the 
upper part of the log touches the ground. It is now obviousthat, 
-vin whatever direction the log may fall, it will arrest the motion of 



422 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 



the pendulum and stop the clock within less than a second of the true 
time of transit of the wave at the spot. 

If the adjustments are similar for all the clocks this error will be 
constant for them all; and if the true time he noted at the principal 
station it can be got for the rest. 

Clocks with seconds pendulums only, should be chosen for this use. 
They should be all set by one chronometer, and their errors after- 
wards taken. • 

Where convenient, the pendulums should be all placed to swing 
north and south, or east and west; and in this case the sides of the 
logs will face the cardinal points, and the directions of their fall 
(where not entangled) be a rude index of that of the wave. It will 
be also desirable to place a tub of fluid to mark direction with each 
clock. 

The positions chosen for the clocks must vary with circumstances, 
but they should, as far as possible, surround the principal station; 
their distances apart must be considerable, as the sp%ed of the wave 
or shock is immense — probably five miles is the ordinary minimum, 
and thirty to fifty miles a convenient maximum distance. Such 
arrangements should be made as rapidly as possible after the first 
shock has given the expectation of others to succeed. 

When practicable, the following method of fitting common clocks 
may be advantageously adopted. Let a, fig. 8, be the pendulum- 
bob ; fix a pin of stout wire into a hole in the centre of it, b, at right 
angles to the plane of vibration; cut two small mortices through the 
sides of the clock-case, so that a lath of deal or other light wood, of 
about an inch and a half wide by a quarter of an inch thick, may be 
passed through from c to d, just in front of the bob and clear of it. 

Mark the length of the arc of vibration on the lower edge of the 
lath, and cut this length into nicks or teeth like a rack, of about 
three-eighths of an inch in depth and breadth each. Place the lower 
edge of the lath horizontally, and just above and clear of the pin b, 




secure the end of the lath d by a wire pin or stud, as a fixed point, 
so that the end c is free to move in an arc of a few inches up and 
down round d as a centre. Prepare a vertical log of wood/, of the 
size and form already described, but cut its upper end to a square 
pyramid, the flat surface at the top being reduced to about a quarter 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 423 

of an inch square; adjust the length and position of the log, so that 
it shall form a support for the end of the lath c, as in the figure. 

It is obvious that the moment the log f is overthrown by a shock 
the lath will drop at the end c, (which should be slightly weighted,) 
and the teeth or rack nicks catching the pin b of the pendulum-bob 
will stop the clock: on examining which, the dial will show the time 
to a second when the shock took place, and the tooth in the rack will 
show at what part of the arc of vibration the pendulum was arrested, 
which will obviously give the time of the shock to a fraction of a 
second. 

This method may be applied to any form of clock, and with any 
length of pendulum. Observation should be accurately made by a 
seconds watch, or still better, with a Breguet chronoscope, which 
readily reads to T V of a second, of the total duration of the shock in 
passing the observer's station; and the observer should endeavor to 
record the number of small, rapidly recurrent shocks, and their total 
duration at each epoch. 

Returning now to observations to be made upon the earth-wave, 
indirectly or by its effects, consisting principally of — 1. Observations 
on buildings and other objects, fissured, dislocated, or thrown down. 
2. On bodies bent, projected, displaced, or inverted. 3. Bodies 
twisted on a vertical axis, with more or less diplacement. Some of 
the most precious data are to be obtained, by the observation, after 
the earthquake, of the fissures and dislocations of buildings. Choice 
should be made of buildings rectangular in plan, of tolerably good 
masonry, and but one-story in height, such as churches, &c. ; and as 
often as possible such should be chosen as have their principal Avails 
running north and south and east and west. These may be advan- 
tageously described as Cardinal buildings. With a given force of 
shock, and in buildings of generally similar form, the extent of fis- 
sure depends chiefly upon the character and "bond" of the masonry. 
The direction of fissures is nearly vertical when due to nearly hori- 
zontal shocks; but those of steep emergence produce highly-inclined 
fissures, often crossing each other. Cardinal buildings exposed to 
shocks, the horizontal component of which is either N.S. or E.W., 
are fissured chiefly near the quoins, and through the walls whose 
planes are in the line of shock. But irregularities in the mass of the 
walls, due to apertures, the brittleness of masonry, and slight devia- 
tions from cardinal direction in the shock itself, frequently produce 
subordinate fissures in the walls transverse to its line of movement, 
when these are not overthrown. 

"When the direction of shock is diagonal to the plan of the walls, a 
triangular mass is dislodged from the upper part of each of the adja- 
cent walls, at the quoin from which the wave comes. With steep 
emergence such masses may be dislodged from both quoins at the 
same end of a rectangular building, which is that towards which the 
wave moves. Heavy roofs and tiled or arched floors suffer most from 
shocks of steep emergence. Buildings situated near about vertically 
over the centre of disturbance present evidence of dislocation in 
every direction, i. e.. by the vertical, or nearly vertical, emergence 



424 EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 

of the normal vibration, and by the nearly horizontal movements of 
the two transversal vibrations in orthogonal planes. 

The observer must bear in mind that all these motions are due to 
the inertia of the bodies at the moment of the wave transit. The 
first tendency, therefore, of every body is to fall in a direction con- 
trary to that of the wave's motion; but this is often perplexed by 
mutually supporting bodies, as cross walls — by the direction of the 
wave being one in which a fall is impossible, as when passing very 
diagonally through a long line of wall — by disintegration from the 
first wave, so altering the conditions of the bodies (walls, towers, 
<fcc.,) though short of producing a fall, as that the dislocation and fall 
produced by a succeeding one is not contrary, but in the same direc- 
tion as the wave motion. When the shock emerges at a large angle 
to the horizon bodies are often projected, as stones out of or from the 
roping of walls: the size, weight, form, cement, sort of stone, distance 
thrown, and all other conditions of projection should then be care- 
fully noticed. Isolated bodies, such as bells from belfries, balls or 
vases of stone, statues, &c., are often thrown from elevated points 
on buildings, and reach the ground after describing a trajectory path. 
The vertical height fallen through, and the horizontal distance thrown 
from the original position, with the form, dimensions, substance, 
weight, and mode of attachment of the body, being noted, afford 
elements for calculating the velocity of the wave transit if its direc- 
tion of emergence be otherwise known, or vice versa. 

Fissured or overthrown walls of buildings usually give approxima- 
tions to the horizontal azimuth of shock, but may or may not give 
any decided response as to the direction of transit, e. g. , with a N. S. 
azimuth it may remain uncertain whether the transit was N. to S. or 
S. to N. Objects overthrown, such as images, altar candlesticks, 
pilaster slabs, pictures, that con fall only in one direction, may 
generally be found, such as will decide the question. Space will not 
permit of this part of the subject being treated systematically or 
fully. The observer should train his mind, by solving for himself 
various cases of the effects of shock on different sorts of buildings, 
<fcc., and he will see from the hints here given how much the value 
of his observations, in a recently shaken country, will depend upon 
the "nous" and adroitness with which he seizes upon the fit objects 
to afford him the best data. The note and sketch-books should be in 
perpetual use — no conditions essential for after calculation must be 
omitted — and the azimuths, directions, and emergence of the shock 
at every observed point marked upon the best maps as soon as 
possible. Azimuths must usually be taken with the prismatic com- 
pass, or pocket sextant, but should be plotted to the true meridian; 
and the magnetic variation should be determined at frequent intervals, 
especially in volcanic countries. 

Bodies twisted on a vertical axis (such as the Calabrian obelisks, 
see Lyell, "Geology") were formerly supposed to be due to a vorti- 
cose motion of the earth. This movement arises from the centre of 
gravity of the body lying to one side of a vertical plane in the line of 
shock, which passes through that point in the base on which the body 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 425 

rests, in which the whole adherence of the body to its support, by 
friction or cement, may be supposed to unite, and which may be 
called the centre of adhesion. — (See Mallet, ' 'Dynamics of Earthquakes," 
Trans. Royal Irish Acad., 1846.) The observer who fully masters 
these mechanical conditions of motion will see what elements he must 
collect, so that the motion impressed on bodies thus twisted may be 
used to calculate the velocity, &c, of the wave. All observations of 
this class, to be of scientific value, must comprise the materials, size, 
form, weight, sort of cement, base or foundation of the bodies dis- 
turbed, and measurements of the amount, <fec, of disturbance, with 
any other special conditions which occur; and these will always be 
numerous, and demand the utmost alertness and scrutiny of the ob- 
server. The arc and azimuth of oscillation, with weight and length of 
chain or cord of suspended lamp set swinging by shock, often afford 
valuable information. The length to centre of oscillation is got by 
setting the lamp swinging, and noting the vibrations made in a min- 
ute, knowing the latitude; also iron crosses, or lamp irons bent by 
shock. The height, form, weight, exact section at the bend, and 
direction of deflection, to be noted. 

Whatever difference in destructive effect may be due to formation 
or accident, it must be borne in mind that in every shock transmitted 
from a deep centre of impulse, and passing outwards in all directions 
in spherical shells, there will lie a coseismal circle upon the earth's 
surface at some determinate horizontal distance from the central 
point vertically over the centre of impulse, in which the horizontal 
upsetting or overturning power will be a maximum, greater, casteris 
paribus, than at any point within or without this circle: within, be- 
cause there the direction of shock is more vertical, and therefore less 
calculated to overturn buildings; and without, because, though more 
horizontal, the power of the shock has become weakened by distance of 
transmission. This may be called the Meizoseismal Circle or Zone, 
having the radius B c, fig. 1. It may be proved that the angle of 
emergence for this zone of maximum overthrow is constant, and 
makes with the horizon an angle equal to 54° 44' 9" nearly, assuming 
the energy of shock in the normal to vary as the inverse square of 
the distance from the origin. If, therefore, the centre of the circle, 
or point-plumb over the origin be given, or three points can be fixed 
by observation in the meizoseismal circle, the depth of the origin below 
the earth's surface can be calculated by the following rule: 

"Find the mean diameter of the meizoseismal circle. Then the 
depth of the origin or centre of impulse beneath the surface is equal 
to the diagonal of the square whose side is equal to the radius of that 
circle." 

If the energy in the normal be assumed to vary simply as the dis- 
tance from the origin inversely, then the constant angle of emergence 
for maximum overthrow is 45°, and the depth of centre of impulse is 
equal to the radius of the meizoseismal circle. 

This gives us one method of approximating seismometrically to the 
depth below the surface of the volcanic ' 'couche" beneath. The gen- 
eral horizontal direction of shock (radial from a point on the surface- 



426 EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 

plumb above the centre of impulse) is subject to great and often very 
perplexing and abrupt changes in azimuth and direction in very moun- 
tainous or shattered country, or even in perfect planes of deep allu- 
vium (like the basin of the Ganges) resting upon a highly uneven 
skeleton of rock, or where the formations vary suddenly and much, 
or are very discontinuous. The change often amounts in direction 
to total inversion, and in azimuth to 90°. 

Great perturbation of direction is also produced by the abutting of 
one mountain chain upon another, which usually alters the apparent 
angle of emergence also. The methods of disentangling these larger 
and complex phenomena exceed the limits here imposed. — (See 4th 
Report Brit. Ass. Trans., 1857-' 58.) 

Amongst doubtful phenomena on record are inversions of bodies, 
such as parts of pavements turned upside down, &c. ; such cases, or 
any strange and unaccounted for phenomena, deserve special atten- 
tion. — (See 1st Report, '"Facts of Earthquakes," section 6, Secondary 
Effects; " Cosmos," vol. iv., Sabine's Translation.) 

In traversing an extensive city, or thickly-built-over country, to 
observe the shattered buildings — having first ascertained generally 
the line of motion of the wave — the observer should remark where 
its directou of motion has appeared to change as it passed along, and 
note all the conditions that seem to have there affected it. He should 
also obtain decisive evidence of its actual transit, for sometimes the 
wave seems to emerge all but simultaneously over a vast tract of 
country, where the origin is deep-seated, and nearly vertically below. 
Changes in the rate of transit horizontally, or in the energy of the 
wave, should be noted by its effects on similar objects at distant 
spots. These changes may be expected at the lines of junction of 
different rocks or other formations. Evidence should also, if possi- 
ble, be got of any breaking up of the primary wave into secondary 
waves, as of several shocks being felt where only one has occured 
further back. 

All evidence should, as far as possible, be circumstantial. Nature 
rightly questioned never lies; men are prone to exaggerate, at least 
where novel and startling events are in question. 

Various local conditions must be recorded: the great features of the 
geological formations of the region, not only the successive under- 
lying rocks, with the general directions of bedding, lamination, 
joints, &c, but the topographical character of surface, the directions 
and altitudes of the chief mountain ranges and of the main river 
courses, the depth and description of its loose materials, their varia- 
tions and extent, and the same for the surrounding districts, from 
Avhence and towards which the earth-wave travels especially. The 
deeper a knowledge can be got by exposed sections, &c, of the rocks 
of the shaken district the better; the proximity or otherwise to vol- 
canic vents, active or passive, the lithological character of material 
of the country shaken, whether broken, solid, or fissured; if the hitter, 
their general directions, dip, &c, whether dry or flooded, and the 
effects on the transit of the wave, of changes in any or all of these 
conditions; places least and most affected by the shock, and whether 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 427 

there be somo free from any, and their local conditions, to be par- 
ticularly noted. 

Referring now to secondary phenomena, or effects resulting from the 
transit of the earth-wave, (other than merely measures of it,) we 
should observe falls of rock, or land -slips, to which most of the con- 
ditions of shattered buildings apply. Land-slips change their initial 
directions frequently, in consequence of moving over curved or 
twisted surface of rocks; thus the previously straight furrows of a 
field may be found twisted after an earthquake. Scratches or furrows 
engraven on rocky surfaces by such land-slips should be looked for. 

Sometimes great sea- waves are produced by the fall into the sea of 
rock or land-slips, which need to be carefully distinguished from the 
true great sea-wave produced by an original impulse of the sea- 
bottom. Land-slips often dam rivers, fill up lakes; and various 
changes of surface again produce basins for new lakes, to be filled 
by the changed river-courses. The circumstances, as far as possible, 
should be accurately observed, and the causation of the events 
unwound, and all such phenomena cautiously separated from actual 
ejections of water, (temperature to be ascertained,) which are said 
sometimes to have happened on an immense scale. — (Humboldt, Per- 
sonal Narrative; " Cosmos," vol. iv.) 

Fissures containing water often spout it up at the moment of shock. 
Wells alter their water-level, and sometimes the nature of their con- 
tents; springs become altered in the volume of water they deliver. 
The directions of the fissures, and the relations of such directions to 
that of the shock, should be ascertained, and any changes in the 
temperature of wells noted. Ejections from holes or fissures of 
strange liquid or solid matters, sometimes of dry ashes or dust, are 
recorded, and occasionally fiery eructations or smoke are said to have 
occurred, especially near volcanic centres, and blasts of steam vapors 
or gases, whose chemical characters should be in all the above cases 
observed as far as possible. The dust of overthrown buildings, or 
that produced by the. rending of rocky or other masses, must not be 
confounded with these. Fissures, sometimes of profound depth, open 
and remain so, or close again; their directions, dimensions, time and 
order of production, and closing up, and the formations in which they 
occur, to be noted; bodies engulfed to be detailed as future organic 
remains. Fissures in solid rock arise either from the effects of inertia 
or from the range of molecular displacement of the passing wave 
exceeding the elastic limit of the materials disturbed; but fissures in 
earth or other discontinuous and very imperfectly elastic masses seem 
due only to the secondary effects of the shock, producing land-slips, 
subsidations, &c. — (See "First Report on Facts of Earthquakes," 
sec. 6, Secondary Effects.) Permanent elevations and depressions of 
the land usually accompany earthquakes, and are of much importance 
to science, but, as already remarked, must be viewed as clearly 
distinct, from the earthquake itself. Such elevations or depressions 
have a common cause with the earthquake; both are clue to the 
volcanic efforts beneath, but are not the less absolutely distinct 
phenomena, to confound which is to lose sight of all true science in 



428 EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 

both. The observation of these should never be neglected, though 
rather belonging to geology proper. The half-tide level must in all 
cases be taken as the datum-plane for all questions of level, and 
opportunities diligently sought for along beaches, quays, wharfs, or 
inland along mill-streams or irrigating channels, &c, where altera- 
tions of level may be trustworthily evinced by changes of depth or 
run of water. Occasionally local, but widely-extended, permanent 
elevations or depressions accompany earthquakes, which seem to 
result from lateral compression, and not from direct elevatory forces. 
These should be distinguished from the preceding. 

Rivers are stated to have sometimes run dry during earthquakes, 
and again begun to flow after the shock. This is presumed to arise 
either from the transit of an earth-wave along their courses up stream, 
thus damming off their sources, or from sudden elevation of the land, 
and as sudden depression. Where well observed, however, it has 
nearly always been found due to sudden damming up by falls of rock 
or earth at narrow points of their courses, the , debris being soon 
afterwards swept away. 

Observations of the forced sea-wave, whether produced by the 
earth-wave going out to sea or coming in from it, will be nearly the 
same. It is desirable to find its height above the surface of repose 
referred to half-tide level, and its length or amplitude; but from the 
extreme rapidity of its production and cessation, or conversion into 
small oscillatory waves lapping on the beach, and its generally small 
altitude, observations are extremely difficult; they are only possible 
when the surface of the sea is perfectly calm, and then must be left 
to the skill of the observer in taking advantage of local circumstances, 
and of evidence as to the visible circumstances of this wave, which 
occurs at the instant the shock is felt. 

Observations of the ivaves of sound through the earth, the sea of 
fresh water, and the air, are indicated pretty fully by the description 
of these waves already given. The sound-wave through the earth 
travels probably at the same rate as the shocl^ or earth- wave; it is, 
in fact, the slioch (or its fractures) heard. Notice if any and what 
sound is heard before, along with, or after the shock is felt. An 
observer, putting one ear in close contact with the earth, and closing 
the other, will hear the sound-wave through the earth separate from 
that through the air, and thus hear sounds otherwise inaudible. So, 
also, an observer immersed in the sea will hear the sound-wave 
through it, sometimes without any complication of that through the 
earth. 

An exact description of the character and loudness of the sounds 
heard, and the places in an extensive district where each was heard 
loudest and faintest, with the nature of the rock formations at these 
spots, should be noted. The duration of the sound from first to last, 
through either medium, accompanying each shock, is important. 
Circumstances of a character analogous to those upon which the 
rumbling and reverberation of thunder depend, may affect these 
sounds transmitted through the earth and thence to the air. 

Observations on the great sea-wave should embrace, for each wave, 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 429 

its height, its amplitude or length, its velocity, and direction of 
translation. The height to be taken above the plane of repose of 
the fluid, and referred to half-tide level. These waves, when on 
their grandest scale, defy any methods of direct admeasurement; 
but observations of their results, such as the height to which they 
have reached on mural faces of roc£, or on such buildings, &c, as 
may have withstood them, or eye-sight observations made at the 
moment of transit of the crest of the wave cutting distant objects, 
should not be omitted. When of a manageable size the height of 
the crest may be pretty closely obtained by the traces on wharfs, 
buildings, <fcc, or on posts or piles driven into the littoral bottom. 
It may be taken from any convenient fixed points of level, and all 
ultimately referred to half-tide as the datum for all earthquake obser- 
vations as to level. 

The sextant may be occasionally used to get the elevation of the 
crest of the passing wave, several observers making a simultaneous 
observation of an expected wave. The velocity of the wave may be 
got by noticing from a suitable position, by a seconds watch, the time 
of its transit inwards between two distant points having water 
between them whose depth is or may be known. Islands oft" the land 
are advantageous posts for this purpose. Where tide-gauges can be 
established they afford the best means of recording all the conditions 
of these waves when of a manageable height. The state of the tide 
at the time of their occurrence, and the general nature of the local 
establishment, with the in and off shore currents, should be ascertained. 

The length of the wave (while entire) should be sought for by 
a similar method; a knowledge of its length and of the depth of 
water infers its height. There are two indirect methods by which 
the dimensions of the great sea-wave may be pretty accurately deter- 
mined: First. The distance to which solid bodies before at rest are 
translated by the passage of the wave over them is about equal to 
its length or amplitude; so that when we can obtain evidence of the 
distance to which. a large loose rock, for example, whose precise posi- 
tion was before known, has been carried, we approximate to one 
dimension of the wave. Secondly. The depth of water at the point 
where the wave is first observed to break, when capable of being 
accurately found, gives the height of the wave, which is here equal 
to the depth of the soundings. This breaking point and depth should 
always be anxiously tried for. Besides the dimensions of the wave, 
observations should be made, on the interval of time, after the great 
earth-wave, or shock, and before the great sea-wave comes in, reck- 
oning from the commencement of the shock. When more than one 
great sea- wave comes in, the precise number of successive waves and 
the intervals in time of their recurrence should be noted; also, what 
are their relative dimensions; what changes are observable in the direc- 
tions whence they arrive at the same point of coast, and what are the 
several in-coming directions at various points along a great stretch of 
coast, (the latter must be had usually from collected testimony;) what 
reflux from the beach before or after the coming in of the wave; after 
the wave has come in and broken, what oscillatory waves are pro- 



430 EARTHQUAKE PIIEMOMENA. 

duced, their character and dimensions; whether the level of the sur- 
face of the sea is, in repose, the same before and after the subsidence 
of the great sea-wave and its secondary or oscillatory waves; whether 
any subsequent irregularity of tide occurs after the shock or great 
sea- waves, or any permanent change of establishment should be ascer- 
tained. 

As accurate a section as possible of the form of the littoral bottom, 
beach, offing, and out to deep water, should be got by soundings in 
the line of the coming in of the wave, and laid down on paper. It 
should be noticed whether the great wave comes in of muddy or dis- 
colored water, or clear and like the sea it traversed; and, where 
possible, a cruise should be made out to sea in the direction whence 
the waves came, to look for pumice, dead fish, volcanic ashes, or other 
indications of the distant origin or centre of disturbance. The cotidal 
lines of the great waves should be laid down in direction upon a map 
of the coast. 

The secondary effects of the great sea-wave, most worthy of re- 
mark, are the materials, if any, carried in from deep sea, such as 
loose mineral matter, new animal or vegetable forms, or the substances 
swept from off the land and sunk in the depths of the sea. As the 
range of transferring power of a great sea-wave (wave of translation) is 
only equal to the wave itself, but little matter will be carried inland 
from the sea bottom, unless where the depth is great close to shore. 

If fish or testacea are thrown inland into fresh water, the effects on 
them should be noticed. Lastly, the effects of the passage of the 
wave over the land and all that stands upon it are to be observed. 
In recording the transporting power of the wave, (i. e., its absolute 
transferring power, without reference to distance,) the size, form, 
specific gravity, and lithological character of rocks or boulders moved, 
the distance moved and height lifted are to be given; the base on 
which moved, and if rock, the scratches or furrows produced; the 
mode of motion, and if swept or rolled along, the obstacles overcome 
in their progress. Where gravel or loose materials are moved there 
should be given an estimate of the mass moved, and to what distance; 
the character, external and internal, of its deposition; the mutual 
relations or sorting of its fine and coarse parts. The effects on build- 
ings variously exposed; on vertical and sloping sea-walls; on steep 
faces of cliffs, and on the caverns excavated in them. The denuding 
effects of the wave in sweeping off sand, gravel, trees, animals, &c 
The disruption and lifting of masses and abrasion of stratified rocks, 
especially of nearly level and nearly vertical beds. Effects of vertical 
sea-walls or cliffs in the reflection or extinction of the wave. 

Specimens should be taken of the rock of which very remarkable 
boulders or architectural fragments moved by the wave consist; of 
any new or strange matters cast up, or gases or vapors evolved from 
the sea, or ejected from fissures, cavities, wells, &c, on land; of min- 
eralized or suddenly fouled water found in fissures or wells. Of these, 
where possible, immediate chemical qualitative examination should be 
made. 

Such specimens in particular should be brought home of the rocks 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 431 

or other mineral masses through which the speed of transit of the 
earth- wave has has been carefully observed, as will enable the mean 
modulus of elasticity of the mass to be determined. Where this is rock, 
three specimens should be taken of maximum, minimum, and average 
hardness, density, and compactness, as representatives of the whole, 
noticing especially in stratified rock the depth from surface of ground 
and from top of the formation at which taken; each specimen to be of 
a size enabling a block to be sawn out of it of at least three feet in 
length by four inches square. Where convenient, this operation may 
be done on the spot. An iron wire stretched like a bowspring, with 
some sharp sand and water, makes an excellent stone saw; still better 
where continuous motion can be given by a band to the wire wheel 
and winch handle. Where the district is a deep detrital or alluvial 
one, the depth and characters of the loose materials should be care- 
fully observed, and illustrative specimens, as far as possible, brought 
home. It is in the highest decree important that the decree of shat- 
teryness or compactness of the rock formations, the nature, directions, 
closeness, or openness, and contiguity of the fissures be remarked, as 
these conditions of comparative discontinuity most materially affect 
the transit period of the shock in every formation. 

Collateral conditions to be observed are : Barometer before, during, 
and after the earthquake; thermometer and rain gage; hygrometer 
and electrical state of the air during the phenomena; magnetometrical 
observations to be made where these are practicable; all unusual 
meteorological appearances to be noted, and all changes or perturba- 
tions of climate or season observable for a year before and after the 
shock are desirable to be ascertained. Also, whether epidemic or other 
diseases follow, and have a distinct connexion of cause and effect with 
the earthquake, as by change of season, failure of crop or food, injury 
to arterial drainage, the presence of fogs or exhalations, or like 
events. 

The effects of the shock itself on man and the lower animals to bo 
noticed. Nausea is undoubtedly a frequent effect upon human beings 
at the instant of shock; but the nature of its production is uninvesti- 
gated. Is it due to nervous perturbation, or to the movement, as in 
the case of sea-sickness? Some animals appear to predict the shock 
before men are conscious of its approach. Birds are often killed by 
being throwm off their roosts while asleep at night. Flat fish on the 
sea bottom are often killed by the direct blow of the steeply emer- 
gent wave. All such modes of death should be noted. Active vol- 
canic phenomena occurring before, during, or after the earthquake, 
in adjacent or distant regions, will, of course, be recorded. 

Records or trustworthy traditions are to be sought for in new or little 
explored volcanic countries, or those neighboring to them, as to the 
state of activity or repose of these vents for a long period prior to 
and during the earthquake; also as to their state before and during 
any previous earthquakes — all remarkable facts as to which should be 
collected. Where meteorological or tidal tables exist they should be 
transcribed for the times correlative to the above records. The opinions 
of old observers as to changes of climate or "season; the occurrence 



432 EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. 

of pestilences, failure of crops, &c, in relation to earthquakes, while 
they must be received with caution, should not be disregarded. 

Any changes of permanent level of sea and land that accompanied 
former earthquakes that are on record should be obtained, with their 
particulars; whether the same points have been affected in successive 
earthquakes and by successive upheavals; whether the same or differ- 
ent volcanoes were in action during successive earthquakes; and 
whether the area of disturbance in habitual earthquake regions seems 
to enlarge in successive shocks. — (Humboldt, " Cosmos.") 

Upon maps of the country in which the shock was felt, coseismal 
and meizoseismal curves may be finally laid down, upon which also 
the cotidal lines of the great sea-waves on a long coast-line may be 
marked. Maps of fissures formed in relation to the coseismal lines, 
and generally sketches of all visible remarkable effects of the earth- 
quake 'on natural or artificial objects, should be made. Photography 
affords precious facilities for preserving the appearances of shattered 
buildings and the relations or alterations of natural features, &c. The 
effects of earthquakes on the lives of men and animals; statistics of 
mortality; modes of entombment by the convulsion, as bearing on 
future organic remains; burying of objects of human art — are all 
worthy of notice. 

It sometimes happens that a shock of earthquake is felt at sea at 
great distances from land, and over profound depths; a sudden blow 
is felt as if the ship had struck a rock. — (See " Comptes Rendus, " 
vol. vi, pp. 302 and 512, 1853.) 

The earth-wave coming from an origin probably in most cases nearly 
vertically beneath is here transferred to the ocean, through which it 
passes upwards as an elastic wave, with the same speed as the sound- 
wave through the sea. When such an event occurs in a smooth sea, 
and circumstances are favorable, we should look out for and note the 
direction of the passage almost immediately in form of a single, low 
swell, of the great sea-wave, which may be formed directly over the 
origin, at no very great distance off. Immediate attention should be 
given to the particulars of any objects that may have been displaced 
on board. Compasses are thrown out of the gimbals, shot dislodged 
from their seats round the hatchway coamings, or other places; a mast 
has even been unstepped. The relation observed between the extent 
of lateral and of vertical displacement will give some notion of the 
deviation of the line of shock from the vertical, and of its elope in 
azimuth. This found, a cruise about may be made in search of pumice, 
discoloration, or other indications upon the surface of the sea, <fcc, 
of the orgin under the sea bottom. Where the depth of water is 
great it is improbable that any indications of the convulsion below 
will reach the surface. Efforts, however, should be made to reach the 
bottom with the armed lead line and to obtain two lines of soundings 
at equal intervals for some miles, running both in latitude and longi- 
tude, and to bring up specimens of the bottom at each throw of the 
line. The origin may be found to be a newly-emerging volcano, an 
object always of great interest ; the observation when in deep water 



EARTHQUAKE PHENOMENA. • 433 

is capable of adding much to our knowledge of chemical and physical 
geology. 

Perhaps no branch of terrestrial physics will so richly repay to the 
observer, who is so fortunate as to be able to reach the greater seats 
of volcanic and seismic action of our globe, the labor that will be 
necessary beforehand to enable him effectually to grasp his subject, 
as seismology; but observations undertaken without such preliminary 
knowledge will, for the most part, be valueless. 

Besides the study of the several works already mentioned in the 
text, Lyell's "Geology," passim, should be studied, and a few of the 
best narratives of earthquakes perused. Such are Hamilton's and 
Dolomieu's " Accounts of the Great Calabrian Earthquake," (neglect- 
ing their theoretic views;) Humboldt's, Admiral FitzRoy's, and C. 
Darwin's Accounts of the South American, and Sir Stamford Raffles's 
Account of those of Java; with several others. 



28 



434 



METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 



METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 

[Mr. Cassella, of London, has furnished us with a series of wood cuts to illustrate some 

late forms of instruments constructed by himself; and, as they may be interesting to 

meteorological observers, we have concluded to insert them in this Appendix to the 

Annual Report. — J. H ] 

Fig. l. 




Fig. 1 represents a solar radiation thermometer, with blackened 
bulb, in a stout glass tube exhausted of air within one-tenth of an 
inch of the mercurial gauge, constructed agreeably to the suggestion 
of Sir John Herschel. 

The instrument being thus protected from all external influences, 
gives uniformity of readings for comparison of solar radiation, which sur- 
passes those obtained by the naked bulb exposed to contact with the air. 

Fig. 2. 



)F PHILLIPS'S 




MAXIMUM THERMOMETER 



1 I ' I ' I ' I : I ' I ' I ' | 
CASELL'A. FECIT LONDON. 




504 



Fig. 2 represents a maximum thermometer constructed on the 
principle of Professor Phillips. The maximum point of temperature 
attained during the interval between two observations is indicated 
by a separation in the mercurial column. The end of a portion of 
the extremity of the column is left at the point of maximum, while 
the contraction takes place in the remainder of the column, as shown 
in the figure. To insure this separation, the bore of the tube is 
exceedingly fine, and a minute portion of air is left by the maker at 
the point where the separation takes place. This instrument is sus- 
pended horizontally on a hook at one end and on a pin at the other. 
In order to bring back the index to its proper place after the obser- 
vation has been made, the pin is removed, the instrument is brought 
to a perpendicular position with the bulb downwards, when the 
detached mercury descends into near contact with the remaining 



METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 



435 



portion of the column. The instrument is again brought back to its 
horizontal position and the pin restored to its place. 

Thermometers constructed after this plan were first exhibited by 
Professor Phillips, accompanied by a description, at the Oxford 
meeting of the British Association for the advancement of science, 
in 1832. The principle of the instrument is, as we have stated, the 
employment of a certain portion of the column of mercury detached 
as a marker. The length of this is capable of a great range of adap- 
tation to suit the objects of experiment ; the instrument is inde- 
pendent of change by time or chemical action, and as delicate in 
operation as the best ordinary thermometer. Mr. Phillips constructed 
a number twenty-five years ago, some of which remain in an excellent 
state to the present time. The length of the marker may be varied 
at pleasure by means of a second hollow ball blown at the extremity 
opposite the ball containing the mercury. The longer this marker 
is left the more moveable it becomes. With a certain small length 
depending on the diameter of the tube it will remain, without moving, 
in any position, and requires strong shaking to change its place. 
Among the samples presented to the Association was one planned by 
Professor Phillips for special researches on limited sources, or areas 
of heat, with small bulb, fine bore, and short detached marking column. 
Thus constructed, the thermometer may be used in any position — ver- 
tical, inclined, or horizontal — and the short detached marking column 
will retain its place with such firmness that the instrument may be 
carried to a distance, or even agitated, without disturbing the regis- 
tration. 

Fig. 3. 

M y y 




Fig. 3 represents an instrument of the same kind with black 
bulb for solar radiation. 

Fi". 4. 




rf eUa r-^' ^-v--f7^-r-f-\ -j-i p " R 




Fig. 4 represents the ordinary minimum thermometer in which 
the index is a small piece of enamel. 

Pig. 5. 



436 



METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 




Fig. 5 represents a convenient form for mounting a thermometer 
for determining the temperature of grass due to radiation. 

Fig. 8. Fig. 7. 

Fig. 6 represents one of a series of 
standard thermometers, extra sensitive, 
about 20 inches in length, each degree 
three-fourths of an inch, divided into 
tenths or twentieths. 

Sensitive thermometers for extremely- 
low temperatures are also constructed of 
the same pattern, thirty-five inches long, 
with a range from 60° below to 80° above 
zero, filled with pure alcohol of the spe- 
cific gravityof 120. 

Fig. 7 represents Regnault's condens- 
ing dew-point hygrometer. 

This instrument consists essentially of 
two sensitive thermometers, as shown in 
1 the figure, the lower exposed to the 
jn| action of the atmosphere, the upper to 
■J [tithe influence of a current of air passing 
;£| through ether contained in a well-pol- 
| ished silver bottle, from the mouth of 
which the stem of the thermometer 
projects. This thermometer marks the 
exact temperature at which the aqueous 
vapor at the time in the atmosphere is 
condensed in the form of dew upon the 
bottle, and thus gives by direct observa- 
tion the existing "dew-point." The 
polished silver bottle is about one inch 
in diameter, the neck being contracted 
to about five-eighths. The thermometer inserted into this 
bottle is a sensitive one, divided on its stem to half degrees, 
the stem passing through an ivory stopper fitted with a 
cork which renders the bottle air-tight at the neck. On one side, and 
within the silver bottle, a small, slender silver tube descends to nearly 
the bottom; this tube passes outwards, and is connected with an India- 
rubber tube. Upon nearly filling the large part of the silver bottle 
with ether, and -blowing through this tube, the air rises through the 
ether in bubbles and carries with it a portion of the ether in vapor. 
This evaporation of the ether causes such a degree of cold that the 
surface of the silver bottle is so reduced in temperature as to cause a 
precipitation of dew. The supporting stem of the instrument being 
hollow a ready means is provided for the egress of the air. The bottle 
at the foot of the stand is for containing a supply of ether. 

Fig. 8 represents the hygrometrical apparatus of instrument for 
measuring altitudes by the boiling point of water. It consists first, 
of a strong sensitive enamelled thermometer, the scale of which ranges 
from 180° to 214° Fahrenheit, divided on the stem so as to show the 
tenth of a degree. Second, a copper boiler supported on a small tripod 
and surmounted by a telescopic draw-tube, which is again sur- 




METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 



37 



Fig. 8. 




Fig. 9. 




rounded by a second tube or steam jacket. The 
inner tube has perforations near the top which 
allow the steam readily to fill the intermediate 
e and freely to escape by a side tube, as 
shown in the figure. The thermometer is 
ported, at about one inch above the surface of 
the water in the boiler, by means of a cork or 
India-rubber washer on the upper part of the 
stem, and can be immersed in the steam to any 
required amount by sliding the telescope tube 
to any required height. Distilled water is 
used in this instrument, which is made to boil 
by means of a spirit lamp. The whole is 
packed in a leathern sling case, shown in Fig. 9. 
rig. to. 



1 




f 



Fig. 10 represents a portable anemometer for 
registering the velocity of the wind in miles and 
furlongs. 

This instrument is a modification of the anemo- 
) meter devised by Dr. Robinson, of Armagh, which 
consists essentially of four hemispherical cups, hav- 
ing their diametrical planes exposed to a passing- 
current of air; they are carried by four folding 
horizontal arms attached to a vertical shaft or axis. 
which is caused to rotate by the motion of the 
wind. Dr. Robinson found that the cups, and consequently the axis 
to which they are attached, revolve with one-third of the wind' s 



438 



METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS. 



velocity. A simple arrangement of wheels and screws is appended 
to the instrument, which, by means of two indices, shows, on inspec- 
tion, the space traversed by the wind. The outer or front wheel, one 
revolution of which is equal to the transit of five miles of wind, is 
furnished with two graduated circles, the interior being divided to the 
eighth part of a mile, so that each division is equal to a furlong, 
while the exterior is divided into one hundred parts, each being equal 
to five miles. The stationary index at the top of the dial marks the 
number of miles (under five) and furlongs that the wind may have 
traversed, in addition to the miles shown by the traversing index, 
which revolves with the dial and indicates the transit of every five 
miles. The graduation is to five hundred. The traversing index is 
furnished with a milled- headed screw at the back of the instrument, 
which is employed for bringing its extremity to the zero point when the 
instrument is set, which consists in merely turning it by means of the 
milled-headed screw and bringing the end of the index to point to zero. 
. By means of the folding arms which carry the cups this anemometer 
is rendered portable. When in use it may be screwed on a shaft or 
the ordinary piece of gas-pipe which accompanies it and elevated to 
any desirable altitude. It is particularly adapted for occasional obser- 
vations on shore, and is suitable for measuring the force of the wind 
at sea. It may readily be set up on the highest part of a building or 
elevated on board a vessel. When inspected it will show alike the 
wind's present velocity as well as the rate at which it was passed 
since it was set or last read. This instrument may also be used for 
showing the ventilation of public buildings or dwellings, by an inspec* 
tion of its dial in combination with a watch or clock, by which the 
rate of the progress of ventilation may be seen. 

Fig~ 11. 

Fig. 1 1 represents a convenient form 

of Land's anemometer for showing the 

direction and force of the wind. This 

consists essentially of a glass tube of 

^k I i "/^Z ® half an inch bore, bent into the form 

of a U, as shown in the figure, the 
lower half of which is filled with mer- 
cury; the upper end of one of the legs 
is bent horizontally, and when this is 
directed toward the wind the mercury 
is driven down by the pressure in one 
leg and caused to rise in the other, 
the difference in level gives the pres- 
sure of the wind in inches of mer- 
cury from which the velocity may be 
calculated. For observing very high 
winds the straight leg may be closed 
at the top, in which case the pressure 
on the open end will be indicated by 
the condensation of the air in the 
other leg, combined with the difference 
of level of the mercury in the two 
leffs. 




FILLING BAROMETER TUBES. 439 



ON FILLING BAROMETER TUBES. 

[Having been frequently called upon by our correspondents to give information relative to 
filling barometer tubes, we requested Mr. James Green, of New York, and Mr. W. Wiede- 
mann, of Washington, to furnish us with an account of the methods employed by them. 
The following are their answers to our request, with additional information from the Trans- 
actions of the Royal Society. — J. H.] 

I. — By James Green, of New York. 

One of the greatest difficulties with the inexperienced is to get the 
tube itself clean and free of moisture. If the tube is foul, the com- 
mon way is to clean it with a covered copper wire, wrapped with 
additional cotton at the end to fit the tube, and moistened with alcohol 
and whiting at first, afterward with dry cotton. If the tube can be 
heated and air blown in dry, so much the better. 

The mercury and tube should be heated as much as will be allow- 
able to handle them, to keep all the water in a state of vapor. The mer- 
cury is filtered into the tube in a long paper funnel, in a fine stream, 
until within a quarter of an inch of the top. The tube will now be 
found covered with small air bubbles. Stop the end of the tube with 
the finger, and run a large air bubble up and down the tube. This 
will collect the small ones together. Provided the tube be clean and 
dry, and mercury pure, a pretty good result is obtained. 

To boil the mercury in the tube, fill within three inches of the top. 
Then, with a clear charcoal fire or long spirit lamp, warm the whole 
tube as much as you can without inconvenience. The tube being held 
by a cloth, (with woollen gloves on hands is well,) then commence at 
the top or open end and hold the tube over the fire until the mercury 
boils, moving the tube a little in all directions all the time to equalize 
the distribution of the heat from the fire. Continue the boiling 
downwards until 3011 reach the end, and then return boiling up to the 
top again. Some begin at the closed end, (for economy of risk and 
labor,) and boil up only. This may answer the purpose, but not so 
well as the other, particularly if the tube is not perfectly dry and 
clean. The part of the tube unoccupied will be well-prepared by 
the boiling mercury bubbling up; so that to complete the filling, filter 
hot mercury to the top. 

The more perfect methods of boiling are impracticable out of the 
workshop and hands of the glass-blower. 

One of the best tests for the purity of the mercury is, that after 
once filtering in a long paper funnel to get it clean, in filtering again 
slowly no lines or marks are left on the paper by the receding sur- 
face, and in motion no strings or tails are made, but the mercury will 
be rounded at its edges. 

The best method ordinarily practicable for purifying mercury is to 
put it in a large bottle with some very dilute nitric acid, and shake it 



440 FILLING BAROMETER TUBES. 

frequently. It should then be left for some days, and shaken occa- 
sionally; then well washed with pure water and dried. I distil first, 
and then wash with acid, and this will take out the metals likely to be 
found in it. 



II. — By W. Wurdemann, op Washington. 

In compliance with your request, as contained in your note received 
this day, I will give some notes in regard to my usual method of filling 
barometers. 

First, let me premise that I have so far filled only such as have a 
straight tube, without bend or contraction, and to such alone the 
method below explained is applicable; nor ought the tubes to be of a 
less bore than T 3 g- of an inch. 

Besides the requisites stated, those of a clean tube and perfectly 
pure mercury are equally indispensably necessary with this method 
as well as any other, where a perfect instrument is desired. The 
purification of mercury is best accomplished by means of perchloride 
of iron, with which it is shaken in a diluted state; then carefully 
washed with pure water, and again freed from moisture by heating. 
The glass tube must have its open end ground straight and smooth, 
so that it can be closed air-tight with the finger, or better, with hard 
caoutchouc, as the former is liable to introduce moisture or grease. 
Warm well both mercury and glass tube, and fill in through a clean 
paper funnel with a very small hole (about -g- 1 ^ of an inch) below, to 
within about one-fourth of an inch of the top. Shut up the end and 
turn the tube horizontal, when the mercury left will form a bubble 
that can be made to run from one end to the other by change of in- 
clination, which will gather all the small air bubbles visible that 
adhered to the inside of the glass tube during filling. Now let that 
bubble, which has grown somewhat larger, pass to the open end. 
Fill up this time with mercury entirely, and shut up tightly. Then 
reverse tube over a basin, when, by slightly relieving the pressure 
against the end, the weight of the column of mercury will force some 
out, forming a vacuum above, which ought not to exceed one-half an 
inch. Closing up again tightly, let this vacuum bubble traverse the 
length of the tube on the several sides, when it will absorb those 
minute portions of air, now greatly expanded from removed atmo- 
spheric pressure, that were not drawn at the first gathering. 

The perfect freedom from air is easily recognized by the sharp con- 
cussion with which the column beats against the sealed end, when, 
with a large vacuum bubble, the horizontally held tube is slightly 
moved. 



CONSTRUCTION OF A STANDARD BAROMETER, 441 



ACCOUNT OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF A STANDARD BAROMETER, 
AND DESCRIPTION OF THE APPARATUS AND PROCESSES EM- 
PLOYED IN THE VERIFICATION OF BAROMETERS AT THE KEW 
OBSERVATORY. 



BY JOHN WELSH. 
Communicated to the Royal Society by J. P. Gassiot, esq. 



-Standard Barometer. 



In the course of the years 1853-'54 several attempts were made, 
under the superintendence of the Kew committee, to prepare, by the 
usual method of boiling, a barometer tube of large dimensions. Mr. 
Negretti, to whom was entrusted the preparation of the tube, succeeded 
repeatedly in boiling, apparently satisfactorily, tubes of fully one inch 
internal diameter. Many of these, however, broke spontaneously 
before they could be mounted, some of them within a few hours and 
others after an interval of several days. Two or three tubes were 
.ultimately erected, but their condition was not satisfactory. The 
adhesion of the mercury to the glass was so great, that in a falling 
barometer the convexity of the top of the column was destroyed, and 
the surface of the mercury assumed even a concave form. After a 
few days rings of dirt or other impurity were formed on the glass 
near the top of the column, which soon increased to such a degree as 
entirely to interfere with the observation. The mercury employed in 
filling the tubes had been previously treated for some weeks with 
dilute nitric acid, and afterwards kept in bottles under strong sulphuric 
acid being well washed with water and dried by repeated filtering 
before use. Dr. W. A. Miller examined specimens of the mercury, 
and could detect no impurity in it, 

Suspecting that some injurious effect might have been produced 
upon the mercury or upon the glass by the great heat to which the 
tube was necessarily exposed in boiling so large a mass of mercury, it 
occurred to me that the difficulty might be removed by another method 
of filling the tube, which I shall now describe: 

The tube was, in the first place, | d as follows: To its upper 

end was attached a capillary tube bent thrice at right angles, having 
its bore much contracted at the middle point of its length, with a 
small bulb blown at another part of its length, being finally drawn 
out to a fine point and there hermetically sealed. To the lower end 
of the large tube was attached ten inches of a smaller tube, having a 
bore of three-tenths of an inch, and to that again was added about 
six inches of capillary tube. , A bulb of three-fourths of an inch was 
blown at the end of the smaller tube, which, at its junction with the 



442 CONSTRUCTION OF A STANDARD BAROMETER. 

larger tube, was finally bent into a syphon. The end of the lower 
capillary tube was now connected with a good air pump, and the air 
very slowly extracted at the same time that the whole tube was 
strongly heated by passing a large spirit lamp along it. "When the 
air had been as well as possible extracted, and whilst the air pump 
was still in action and the heat still applied, the lower capillary tube 
was sealed by a blow-pipe flame. When the tube had cooled, it was 
placed at a small inclination with the end of the upper capillary tube 
in a vessel containing mercury which had been previously boiled. 
The point of this tube was broken off under the mercury, which then 
rose in the tube by atmospheric pressure. The mercury continued 
to rise until the bulb at the other end was more than half filled, the 
remaining space being occupied by the air which the pump had failed 
to extract. It was estimated from the amount of space thus left unoc- 
cupied by the mercury that the pressure of the residual air in the tube 
when cold must have been less than five hundredths of an inch. The 
basin of mercury was then withdrawn from beneath, leaving the point 
of the capillary tube exposed, the bore of which remaining quite filled 
with mercury. The blow-pipe was then applied to the point, and the 
opening sealed. When the glass had cooled, the large tube was placed 
erect, the mercury separating at the contracted part of the capillary 
tube, leaving the remainder filled, or very nearly so, and the part 
between the point of contraction and the large tube a vacuum. The 
upper capillary tube was now sealed at about the middle of the vacuum, 
and the remaining portion removed. Finally the syphon tube at the 
lower end of the large tube was broken under mercury, leaving about 
an inch of the syphon remaining. 

The earlier tubes filled by this process were not satisfactory, there 
being, as in those previously prepared by boiling, a considerable adhe- 
sion of the mercury to the glass, with the formation, after a few days, 
of rings of dirt; so similar, indeed, was the appearance of these tubes 
to that of the boiled tubes, that I was led to believe that the evil in 
both cases was due to the same cause. Being satisfied that there was 
no impurity in the mercury, which, besides having been cleaned with 
nitric acid, had before these last experiments been redistilled, and 
suspecting that the evil might have been owing to imperfect cleaning 
of the tubes, which had only been ivi-ped out by the glassblower in the 
usual way, I had fresh tubes made under my own inspection, and sealed 
at the glass-works immediately after being drawn. Great care was 
also taken by the glass-blower to prevent the entrance of moisture 
during the subsequent operations with the blow-pipe. These tubes, 
however, still showed the same imperfection, though in a less degree. 
About this time I had the advantage of consulting Mr. John Adie, of 
Edinburg, who informed me that he had also experienced the same 
inconvenience, and that he had removed it by thoroughly cleaning 
the tubes by sponging with whiting and spirits of wine. Following 
his directions, 1 had the satisfaction of finding the tubes when filled 
almost wholly free from the imperfections mentioned. A tube of 
1.1 inch internal diameter, prepared in July, 1855, by the process 
above described, is at this time in as good condition as when first 



CONSTRUCTION OF A STANDARD BAROMETER. 443 

erected. The top of the column presents a good convexity in all 
states of the barometer, with only a very slight trace of dirt. No 
appearance of air-specks can be detected, except a few very minute 
ones near the lower end of the tube, which have existed since the 
commencement, and were produced by the temporary entanglement 
of a small air-bubble at the shoulder-bent part of the syphon tube in 
the operation of filling. These specks have not increased in number 
nor shown any tendency to rise. A portion of the syphon being 
retained at the lower end of the tube, it is highly improbable that 
any air can now enter, the mouth of the syphon being cut off from 
communication with the external air by the mercury in the cistern. 
The tube extends to about nine inches above the mean height of the 
mercury. 

The tube is supported over a glass cistern in a strong brass frame 
secured by brackets to the wall of the old mural quadrant of the 
observatory, the height of the mercury being measured by a catheto- 
meter* fixed to the same wall at a distance of five feet. A conical 
point, at the lower end of a short rod of steel, is adjusted by a screw 
to the surface of the mercury in the cistern. At the upper end of 
.the steel rod, and above the level of the glass cistern, is a fine mark, 
whose distance from the conical point has been found by comparison 
with the Kew standard scale to be 3.515 inches. When an observa- 
tion is made, the lower point is adjusted to exact contact with the 
mercury in the cistern; the telescope of the cathetometer is then 
levelled, and its horizontal wire made to bisect the mark on the 
upper end of the steel rod, the scale reading of the cathetometer 
being noted. The telescope is then raised, again levelled, and the 
wire made a tangent to the surface of the mercury in the tube, the 
cathetometer scale reading being again observed. The difference be- 
tween the two readings of the cathetometer scale added to the length 
of the steel rod is the height of the column of mercury. Besides the 
rod terminating in the conical point, a second adjusting rod is provided, 
whose lower extremity is a straight edge. No difference could be de- 
tected between the results from the two methods of adjustment. In 
order to avoid the inconvenience of light being reflected into the tele- 
scope from the surface of the mercury in the tube, a movable screen 
is provided, the upper part of which is black and the lower part oiled 
paper, which is so adjusted as to shut off all light which comes from 
a higher level than the top -of the mercurial column. The surface of 
the mercury thus presents in the telescope a well-defined dark out- 
line. A window behind the barometer gives a good illumination to 
the paper screen; a lamp being required at night. A thermometer 
whose bulb is within the mercury of the cistern gives its temperature, 
and the scale of the cathetometer being of brass, the usual tables can 
be employed for the temperature correction, the difference in the 
expansion of steel and brass being insignificant for the length of the 
short adjusting rod. The variations of the temperature of the room 

* A small telescope, with a horizontal wire in the focus of the eye-piece, sliding on a 
vertical graduated measuring rod. 



444 CONSTRUCTION OF A STANDARD BAROMETER. 






are not rapid, so that no sensible error arises from assuming the tem- 
perature of the cathetometer to be the same as that of the mercury. 
The cistern of the standard barometer is 33.9 feet above the mean 
level of the sea, being 9.1 feet above the ordnance bench-mark on 
the northeast corner of the observatory, whose elevation is stated by 
Lieutenant Colonel James to be 24.83 feet. 

Observations of this barometer being too troublesome when an 
extensive series is required, a standard by Newman, ('No. 34,) having 
a tube of 0.55 inch, which has been recentty compared with the great 
Kew standard, is employed for ordinary use, its index correction 
(which, inclusive of capillary action, is — -|- 0.003 inch) being first 
applied to the observed readings. 

Comparisons, by means of two portable barometers by Adie, Lon- 
don, were made during last summer between the Kew standard and 
that of the observatory at Paris. The result of these comparisons 
was, that the Kew standard reads higher than the Paris standard by 
0.001 inch, no correction being applied to either instrument on 
account of capillary action. 

II. — Verification op Barometers. 

In the best barometers of the present day a provision is made for 
adjusting the surface of the mercury in the cistern to the zero of the 
scale at each observation. Supposing the tube to be in good order, 
which is easily ascertained by mere inspection, the only source of 
error in such instruments is to be looked for in the scale. The gradu- 
ation of the scales of all carefully made barometers is performed by 
means of a dividing engine, and it is not likely to be inaccurate to 
any sensible extent within the ordinary range of the mercury. If, 
however, the barometer is intended to be used at considerable eleva- 
tions, or if it should otherwise be considered desirable to examine 
the graduation, the error of the divisions can be readily obtained by 
measurement with the cathetometer. It frequently happens, how- 
ever, that the point to which the level of the mercury is adjusted is 
not the true zero of the scale. The error arising from this source is, 
of course, constant for all heights of the barometer. As the capil- 
lary action of the tube is also supposed to be constant for the same 
barometer, and as it is seldom possible to determine its true amount, 
it is better to consider it in connexion with the zero error. This is 
the more advisable, since a reference to the zero point in a completed 
barometer to any point of the scale is rendered difficult and uncertain 
by the circumstance that it can only be viewed through the glass of 
the cistern, which, from its irregularity, may considerably affect its 
apparent position. It is therefore the practice to suspend the baro-. 
meter to be examined beside the standard, to make a sufficient num- 
ber of simultaneous observations of the two instruments, and to adopt 
the mean difference of their indications as a single constant correc- 
tion for the combined effects of zero error and capillary action. 

In many portable barometers, and in nearly all marine barometers, 
there is no means of adjusting the mercury to a constant level. It 



CONSTRUCTION OF A STANDARD BAROMETER. 445 

becomes therefore necessary to determine the correction for "capa- 
city," or the variation in the zero point corresponding to different 
heights of the column of mercury. The amount of this correction 
may be determined during the construction of the instrument; or, by 
reducing in the required proportion the lengths of the divisions, it 
may be allowed for in graduating the scale, as has been done in the 
marine barometers made under the supervision of the Kew committee 
by Mr. P. Adie, of London. In order to test the accuracy of this 
correction, it is necessary to compare the barometer at two consider- 
able different pressures with a standard instrument, that is, with one 
in which the mercury is adjustable at each observation to a constant 
zero point. This is done by placing the barometer and a standard 
within a receiver provided with the means of altering at pleasure the 
pressure of the inclosed air. 

The receiver is of cast iron, its horizontal section being rectan- 
gular. It is 39 inches high, 12 inches by G.^ at the lower end, and 
tapering to 10 inches by 4^ at its upper end; there being room for 
three marine barometers besides the standard. Windows of strong 
plate glass, each 11| inches high and 9^ inches wide, let into both 
sides of the receiver, admit of the barometers being observed by a 
cathetometer. Smaller windows below, each three inches square, 
show the cistern of the standard barometer, the mercury in which 
is adjusted to a constant level by a screw passing through a stuffing- 
box in the base of the receiver. The barometers to be verified are 
suspended by a gimbal arrangement from the upper end of the 
receiver, a massive lid closing the opening at the top, by which they 
are introduced. An opening in the base, furnished with a stop-cock, 
is connected by a flexible tube with a pump which regulates the 
pressure of the inclosed air. The pump consists of a single barrel 
and piston. There being openings at both ends of the barrel, the 
valves are so arranged that when the flexible tube is ittached to the 
lower opening, air is extracted from the receiver, and when with the 
upper air is forced in. The receiver is supported by an iron bracket, se- 
curely fixed to the quadrant wall, about 10 feet from the standard baro- 
meter. The cathetometer being between the receiver and standard 
barometer, can be used at pleasure for either. The adjustable barome- 
ter used in the receiver for comparison with the marine barometers 
has a tube 0.35 in diameter; there being a contraction in the tube of 
the same kind and to about the same degree as in the ordinary ma- 
rine barometers made by Mr. Adie. This apparatus for the verifica- 
tion of marine barometers has (with the exception of the adjustable 
barometer, which is by Mr. Adie) been entirely constructed in the 
observatory by Mr. Robert Beckley, the mechanical assistant, who 
has executed the work in a most satisfactory manner, and who has 
shown much ingenuity in arranging the mechanical details so as to 
afford the utmost exactness in observation and convenience in mani- 
pulation. 

The mode of observation is the following: supposing air to have 
been extracted from the receiver until the barometers stand at about 
27 inches, sufficient time having elapsed to allow the mercury to come 



446 



CONSTRUCTION OF A STANDARD BAROMETER. 



to a state of rest, and the zero of the standard having been adjusted, the 
height of the mercury in each of the barometers is observed by the 
cathetometer. Air is then admitted till the mercury stands at about 
31 inches, when the same operation is repeated. The length of the 
graduated scale of the barometer under comparison is then measured 
by the cathetometer. If A a be the cathetometer readings at the 
higher pressure of the standard and marine barometers, respectively, 
B b those for the higher pressure, and if L be the measured length 
of one inch of the scale of the marine barometer, then the correction 

for capacity for one inch =z h — — ^. In order to avoid the error 

which might otherwise arise from the different capillary actions of the 
standard tube and that of the marine barometer, it is the practice to 
make these comparisons only in the forenoon, when the temperature 
of the room, and consequently the pressure of the air within the 
receiver, is slowly increasing. 

Besides the determination of the capacity correction, a series of 
simultaneous observations are made of the marine barometer and the 
standard, "Newman 34," for the purpose of obtaining the zero error. 
From twenty to thirty comparisons are usually made, care being taken 
that there shall be, as nearly as possible, an equal number of obser- 
vations with the barometer rising and falling; this being necessary in 
order to eliminate the retardation produced in the movements of the 
mercury by the contraction of the tube combined with the capillary 
action. The final corrections at different heights of the mercury are 
thus deduced from the data now obtained. Let H be the height 
(corrected for zero error) of Newman 34; h the corresponding height 
of the marine barometer; T the temperature of Newman 34; and t 
that of the marine barometer; K being the "capacity" correction; 
the correction corresponding to any height h of the marine barome- 
ter is — 

H — A + K ( A — %) + {t — T)x 0.0027. 
Each barometer, when it leaves the observatory, is accompanied by 
a statement of its corrections, of which the following is a specimen: 

Corrections to the scale readings of marine barometer, B. T., No. 231, by Adie, 

London. 



Inches. 
At 27.5 
-f 0.001 



Inche*. 
At 28.0 
0.000 



Inches. 
At 28.5 
— 0.001 



Inches. 
At 29.0 
— 0.001 



Inches. 


Inches. 


Inches. 


At 29.5 


At 30.0 


At 30.5 


— 0.002 


— 0.003 


— 0.004 



Inches. 
At 31.0 
— 0.005 



When the sign of correction is -{-, the quantity is to be added to 
the observed reading; and when — , to be subtracted from it. The 
corrections given above include those for index error, capacity, and 
capillarity. 

III. — Cathetometer. 



The cathetometer hitherto employed was made by Mr. Oertling, 
of London, on the plan of that used in the experiments of M. Regnault. 



CONSTRUCTION OF A STANDARD BAROMETER. 447 

It was originally mounted on an independent support; but this was 
found to be too unsteady for exact observation. It was accordingly 
removed from its support and mounted between brackets attached to 
the quadrant wall. The scale of this instrument has been compared 
with the Kew standard scale, both in the horizontal and vertical 
positions; in the former by observation of both scales by fixed micro- 
meter microscopes, and in the latter position in measuring by the 
cathetometer the divisions of the standard scale, placed vertically at 
a distance of five feet. In the horizontal position there appeared to 
be no appreciable error in the graduation of the cathetometer; but 
when vertical, its scale was found to be somewhat too long, the mea- 
surement of a length of 30 inches requiring a correction of + 0.003 
inch. Besides this discrepancy, which is probably due to irregular 
flexure of the bar and to imperfect fitting of the sliding frame which 
carries the telescope and level, the manipulation of the instrument is 
exceedingly inconvenient and troublesome, and requires much care 
and patience. It is believed, however, that when the requisite care 
and time are bestowed, the measurements, after allowing for the cor- 
rection mentioned, are accurate. 

A new cathetometer is at present being constructed by Mr. Beck- 
ley, at the observatory, which promises greater accuracy and conve- 
nience. This instrument is very nearly completed, and will be 
described in a subsequent communication. 



CONTENTS. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Page. 

Letter from the Secretary to Congress 3 

Letter from the Chancellor .'ind Secretary 4 

Officer? and Regents of the Institution 5 

Members ex officio and Honorary members of the Institution 6 

Programme of organization 7 

Report of Professor Henry for 1859 13 

Report of Professor Baird 54 

List of Meteorological Stations and Observers 79 

Report of the Executive Committee 97 

Journal of the Roan! of Regents from January 18, 1860 101 

APPENDIX. 

Lectures on Agricultural Chemistry. By Professor S. W. Johnson 119 

Lectures on the Shells of the Gulf of < California. By Philip P. Carpenter 195 

Latest researches of M. M.kih.i r relating to the general movement of the stars arourrd a central point. 220 
Report on the Transactions of the Society of Physics and Natural History of Geneva, from July, 1858, 

to June, 1859 By Professor Di la. Rive 234 

Present state of Ethnology in relation to the form of the human skull. B \ Retzics 251 

Memoir of Pyramos di Candolle. By M Flourens 271 

On the means which will be ivailnble lor correcting the measure of the sun's distance in iU<- next 

twenty five years. By the Astronomer. Royal 284 

Reports on the state of knowledge of Radiant Heat, made to the Briti-h Association in 1832, 1840, and 

1854 By I 1 298 

Description of the Magneti y at the Smithsonian Institution 385 

On the use of the Gal vai ictei is a measuring instrument. ByJ.C.P 396 

On Observation of Eanhquaki P By R. Mallet 408 

Description of Meten ents 434 

On filling Barometer Tub en 439 

Bj VV. VVdrdemann 440 

Account of the construction of a Standard Barometer, and description of tin apparatus and proci 

employed in the vi neters at the rCew Observatory. By John Welsh 441 



INDEX. 

Rural Chemistry. Lectures on. by Professor S. W. Johnson T„ 

Airy, ( f F., On measuring the sun's distance 

Alexander, C. A., Translations by .' \W\:,; ~ ' 

-. , 220,234,251,271 

\ ■ lomer Royal, On the measure of the sun's "d'istan'c'e \ll 

Astronomical researches and inventions. -. B ? 

Aurora, remarkable exhibition of, in 1859. 15 

\ D.. Remarks relative to G.Wur'demanu.i. '..'.!.! im 

Remarks relative to Professor J. P. Espy !q| 

S. r , Report f„r ?<t"T.'. U .'.'!. Ma ^^^ nd Meteorological Observations atGYmdcVliege:::: 18 

Barometers, i struction and verification, by jn'o*. Weigh' " /!? 

• In fillinjr ' 4-U 

■y Mr. Thur'ber" and Dr.' Torr'e'y .' .'.".' '.' *?? 

Brewer's Oology 41 

Carpenter, Philip p., Lecture on Shelis of the Gulf of 'California'! " iof 

Shells arranged bv rjj 

' . :al Literature.!!! ?i 

' i 's meteorological instruments, Description of.. .. .-,, 

irtwenty-eight'years !.'.'.".'.'! ■;. 44 

Ca ofTransacuons in Smithsonian Library ... In 

meter 4U 

1 r Parker, n »tice "oV.!!!!!! !.!!.".'!!!!..'!!!!!!!!.''!!.".'.'! tit 

.. , , Resolution of Regents relative' to !.'!.'! !!!!!! !.'""" 111 

Coffin, Professor J. H., Discussion of winds o 

1 gue of, by Dr. LeConte ™ 

' in the 8mithsonian Museum .... -7 

1 er, Dr. J. G., Forest map ,l 

Copyright books, Mew regulations respi ctiug !!!.'.'.!'.!! 41 

Applications for ?„ 

1 ran, W. W., Gallery of An ,7~ 

Craig, Dr B P., Researches in Laboratory ./j 

Cunard, Edw., Letter from, granting free freight ' ,77 

I by ... l lj. 

1 if meteorological observers.... ok 

lollc, Blemoir of, b) M Flourens .'..'.". '.'.".'.'!!! ^, 

Oi Kive, Report on transactions of Geneva Society ol Physics! &c o-'m 

Donations to Museum ~i\ 

1 M t on Observations of ' . .' .' ( Z 

Easter, J. D., Translation Galvanometer! !!!'.!!!! ™« 

Eclipse of fti-ptember 7, 1858. Account of, by Lieutenant Gillis ,2 

I Nesu«, Circular relative to .' .V? 

Espy, Professor James, Remarks relative to, by Professor Bac'lie'!! .'.".*.".!.'.".!! 108 

,. ition relative to, by Board of Regents '! 111 

lippropriatioi '.. ''' 

Ethnology, Present state of, in r. lation to the form of the HunianSkuli !!.'.'.'.'.' 2il 

Ethnological Research by I.. II. Morgan .„ 

1 Account of operai 3 during 1859 .,„ 7-.- 

Expcndituns during 1859 'o2 

lions during 1859 ..!'..'.'.".."!.".!".'! =7 

I n, Professor C. C, Remarks relative 1.. WaVhVng'ton'lrving'.!!!! !!!! imj 

„ .. Remarks relative to Professor W. W. Turner !.'.'.". 104 

I M., Memoir of De Candolle, by ',-, 

1 e, W. Q.., Meteorological business conducted by ..!!'.'.' ~'A 

Map, by Dr. J. G.C r ..." ™ 

'■ « as a Measuring Instrument, by Poggendorff.'.! .' w 

Gassiot,J. P., Welsh on Barometers '. "}„ 

Gibbs, i»r. U\. Chemical Researches .'...'. 4 « 

C1II1- 



...I. I.- -1 .11' in 7. «_ 

Gillis, Lieutenant, Accouni ol Eclipse ofS ptember 7, 1858, in Peru..'.'!!.'!!.'.'!!!! 18 

Proposed Expedition of ,,0 

Girard College, Magnetic and Meteorological Observations discussed, by ProfessorBacne' !'..'.' 8 

Glaisher's result 01 Observations in London " i2 

Grasshoppers, Circular relative to 7° 

Cray. Hr. Asa, Work on Foresl Trees ' ri 



Gi 
Gla 
Gi 

* -.-■-■■■•■. .. w, n on i in i-- 1 ncca 

James, On filling Barometers .in 

Haw-. i) r . .1. .1., Expedition to Arctic Regions ...'!! !!!!.'.! jfS 

Hilgard, J. E n of Smithsonian Magnetic 1 Ibservatory..... «» 

Hypsometrical Map ol United States, Materials collected for..." .....' 36 

, , Observations in Mexico, by A. Sonntag 07 

Index of Physical Papers in transactions . 7 

Insects, Treatises or Catalogues of .....'.'.'!.'..'.".' tk 

Instruments, List of, in possession of Meteorological Observers'. !".!".!' ...'. 7 o 

D ription ol Meteorological A !{\ 

Inventions resulting from Abstract Investigations ....!! ......!!!!! i<! 

Irving, Washington, Remarks relative to, by Professor Felton .'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.' 106 

Resolution relative to, by Board of Regents ".!".".!!'.'"!!! 108 



'•' '' >>> f"'«l "II lilll[.|||C-. , , , - _ 'H 

Johnson, Prof ssor S. W.. Lectures on Agricultural Chemistry .'..!.' .'.'!! .'!.'."' nq 

Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents " . 7 n , 

Kane's Meteorological < IbservationB. 



Kennicott, Robert, Exploration "' " _, z~ 

Laboratory 01,00 

Lane, .1. II., Researches in Laboratory .".".!.".'..'!!'."."". ^o 

Latitude and Longitude ol Meteorological Stations .'.'.'.'!!!!!!!! .'.'!! 70 

LeConte. Dr. John, Catalogue ol Coleoptera, bv .... !.'!!..' ok 

Dr. John L., Instructions for Collecting Insects ! !!!!.'.'!!.." -n 

•2d 



450 



INDEX. 



Page. 

Lectures, Ipss number desired by Regents 113 

Lectures, List of, during 1859-'60 52 

On Agricultural Chemistry, bv Professor S. W. Johnson 119 

On the Shells of the Gulf of California, by P. P. Carpenter 195 

Libraries, List of, in United States, by W. J. Rhees 34 

Report on, by VV. J. Rhees 34 

Library, Operations in 39 

Logan, Sir VV. E., Letter from 112 

Loomis, Professor K., On Storm of December, 1836 28 

Magnetical Observations in Mexico, by A. Sonntag 27 

Magnetic Observations by British Association , 18 

Magnetic and Meteorological Observations at Girard College, discussed by Professor Bache 18 

Magnetic Observatory at the Smithsonian Institution, description of 385 

Magnetic Observatory, removal to Tortugas 38,395 

Magnetism of the Earth, Remarks on Disturbances of 19 

Mallet, R., Observation of Earthquakes 408 

Map of Heights of different places in the United States 36 

Meech, L. VV*., Researches on Light and Heat by 35 

Memoir of Pyramus De Candolle, by M. Flourens 271 

Meteorological Instruments, Description of. 434 

Observations at Girard College, discussed by Professor Bache 18 

Observations, List of Special Additions , 95 

Observations, by Dr. Kane 22 

Stations and Observers, list of 79 

Meteorology, Operations during 1859 43 

Meteors, Remarkable, in 1859 49 

Mexico, Magnetic and Hypsometrical Observations in, by Muller & Sonntag 27 

Ma>dler, M.. on Movement of Stars around a Central Point 220 

Morgan, L. H., Ethnological Researches of 37 

Muller, Baron Von, Expedition to Mexico 27 

Museum, Additions during 1859 63 

Condition of the Collections 71 

List of Donations in 1859 72 

Operations during 1859 50,68 

Natural Sciences, De la Rive on -35 

Nests and Eggs. Circular relative to 34 

Northumberland, Duke of, presents from 42, 103 

Observation of Earthquake Phenomena, by Mallet 408 

Oology, by Dr. Brewer 18 

Oxygen, Discovery of, by Dr. Priestly 16 

Pearce, J as. A., Remarks relative to Richard Rush 101 

Physical Sciences, De la Rive on 235 

Poggendorff, on use of Galvanometer for Measuring 396 

Powell, Rev. Baden, Report on Radiant Heat 298 

Priestly, Dr., Discovery of Oxygen 16,103 

Publications, Account of 18,54 

Radiant Heat, Reports on, by Rev. Baden Poweil, for 1832 298 

Report for 1840 . 333 

Report for 1854 362 

Reductions of Meteorological Observations from 1854 to 1860 43 

Report of Executive Committee for 1859 97 

on the Transactions of the Society of Physics and Natural History of Geneva 234 

Reports, Annual, to Congress, Value of 32 

Researches during 1859 35 

of M. Ma:dler, Relating to the General Movement of the Stars around a Central Point 220 

Retzius, Prof. Anders, on the Form of the Human Skull 251 

Rhees, VV. J., Report on Libraries 34 

Ross, B. R , Letter from 116 

Royal Society, Index of Physical Papers by 41 

Rush, Richard, Remarks by Mr. Pearce relative to ]01 

Resolution ot the Board of Regents relative to ... 102 

Sabine, General, Discovery of Coincidence between Magnetic Disturbances and Solar Spots 21 

Sehott, C. A., Discussion of Kane's Meteorological Observations 22 

Discussion of Magnetic Observations at Girard College 19 

Sehwabe, Observations on Solar Spots , 21 

Seech i, Professor, relative to Works of Art from Rome 113 

Shells, Arrangement and Naming 50 

of the Gulf of California, Lecture on, by P. P. Carpenter 195 

Simpson, Sir George, Assistance from 51, 112 

Skull, Form ot the Human, Retzius on.. 251 

Solar Spots, Observations on 21 

Sonntag. A., Magnetic and Hypsometrical Observations in Mexico 27 

Stanley, J. M , Gallery of Paiiitings 113 

Stars, Movement of, aiounda Central Point 220 

Storms ot December, 1836, Loomis on 28 

Sun's Distance, Means for Correct inn the Measure of the Mean of 284 

Swainson, Remarks on Distinction between Diffusion and Advancement of Knowledge 14 

Telegraphic Stations Reporting Weather 95 

Thurber, Mr., Bibliography of American Botany 41 

Torrev, Dr. John, Bibliography of American Botany, by 41 

Transactions of the Geneva Society of Physics and Natural History, De la Rive's Report on 234 

Transportation Facilities 39,56, 116 

Thanks of Regents for 116 

Turner. Professor VV. VV., Remarks of Professor Felton relative to 104 

Resolution of the Board of Regents relative to 106 

Welsh, John, on Barometers 441 

Wurdemann, Gustavus, Remarks of Professor Bache relative to 114 

Resolution of Regents relative to 114 

W.,on Filling Barometers 440 



P^ A 






r*\ 



=&. 



wm 




S*y 



,.»£* 



*fc 




w* 



>*u 



*3fc< 



rm 



:^a 



,.- v. 



£* 



At I 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 




