BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 




Smithsonian yiar 



1980 



Smithsonian Year • 1980 



MM 1 5 1261 



DEPOSITOR 




Evidence is an aggregate of things, signs and symbols, past and present. 
The portraits [details shown] of George and Martha Washington, 
owned jointly by the Smithsonian Institution and the Museum of Fine 
Arts, Boston, were painted by Gilbert Stuart from life in 1796. 




SmithsonianYear • 1980 

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 

SEPTEMBER 30, 1980 




Smithsonian Institution Press • City of Washington • 1981 



For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office 
Washington, D.C. 20402 (paper cover) Stock Number: 047-000-00368-7 



The Smithsonian Institution 



The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846 
in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson of Eng- 
land, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of 
America "to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion 
of knowledge among men." After receiving the property and ac- 
cepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution in an "es- 
tablishment," whose statutory members are the President, the 
Vice-President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive 
departments, and vested responsibility for administering the trust 
in the Smithsonian Board of Regents. 

THE ESTABLISHMENT 

Jimmy Carter, President of the United States 

Walter F. Mondale, Vice-President of the United States 

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States 

Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of State 1 

Edmund S. Muskie, Secretary of State 2 

G. William Miller, Secretary of the Treasury 

Harold Brown, Secretary of Defense 

Benjamin R. Civiletti, Attorney General 

Cecil D. Andrus, Secretary of the Interior 

Bob S. Bergland, Secretary of Agriculture 

Juanita M. Kreps, Secretary of Commerce 3 

Philip M. Klutznick, Secretary of Commerce 4 

F. Ray Marshall, Secretary of Labor 

Patricia Roberts Harris, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare 

Moon Landrieu, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 

Neil Goldschmidt, Secretary of Transportation 

Charles W. Duncan, Secretary of Energy 



1 Resigned April 1980. 2 Sworn in May 8, 1980. 3 Resigned November 1, 1979. 

4 Sworn in January 9, 1980. 



Board of Regents and Secretary ■ September 30, 1980 



regents of the Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Chancellor 
institution Walter F. Mondale, Vice-President of the United States, ex officio 

Henry M. Jackson, senator from Washington 

Barry Goldwater, senator from Arizona 

Robert B. Morgan, senator from North Carolina 

Silvio O. Conte, representative from Massachusetts 

Norman Y. Mineta, representative from California 

Frank Thompson, Jr., representative from New Jersey 

Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas 

J. Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia 

William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey 

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York 

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California 

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania 

Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia 

James E. Webb, citizen of the District of Columbia 



EXECUTIVE 
COMMITTEE 



Warren E. Burger, Chancellor 
William A. M. Burden 
Carlisle H. Humelsine 
James E. Webb (Chairman) 



the secretary S. Dillon Ripley 



Phillip S. Hughes, Under Secretary 

Charles Blitzer, Assistant Secretary for History and Art 

David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science 

Joseph Coudon, Special Assistant to the Secretary 

Julian T. Euell, Assistant Secretary for Public Service 

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the Secretary 

Christian C. Hohenlohe, Treasurer 

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration 

Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs 

Peter G. Powers, General Counsel 

James McK. Symington, Director, Office of Membership and Development 

Lawrence E. Taylor, Coordinator of Public Information 



vi 



Smithsonian Year • 1980 
CONTENTS 



page v THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

vi BOARD OF REGENTS AND SECRETARY 

3 STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 

35 FINANCIAL REPORT 

71 SCIENCE 

71 Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies 

82 Fort Pierce Bureau 

91 National Air and Space Museum 

99 National Museum of Man, Center for the Study of Man 

105 National Museum of Natural History 

122 National Zoological Park 

132 Office of Biological Conservation 

133 Office of Fellowships and Grants 
139 Radiation Biology Laboratory 

150 Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 

169 Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute 

181 HISTORY AND ART 

181 Archives of American Art 

185 Cooper-Hewitt Museum 

190 Freer Gallery of Art 

194 Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden 

198 Joseph Henry Papers 

199 Museum of African Art 

203 National Collection of Fine Arts 

206 National Museum of History and Technology 

211 National Portrait Gallery 

215 Office of American Studies 

217 Office of Folklife Programs 

223 MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

223 Conservation Analytical Laboratory 

228 National Museum Act Programs 



vn 



MUSEUM PROGRAMS, Continued 

231 Office of Exhibits Central 

236 Office of Horticulture 

241 Office of International Activities 

244 Office of Museum Programs 

251 Office of the Registrar 

253 Smithsonian Institution Archives 

255 Smithsonian Institution Libraries 

259 Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service 

265 PUBLIC SERVICE 

265 Anacostia Neighborhood Museum 

266 Division of Performing Arts 
269 International Exchange Service 

269 Office of Elementary and Secondary Education 

273 Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars 

275 Office of Telecommunications 

276 Smithsonian Exposition Books 
278 Smithsonian Institution Press 

281 Smithsonian Magazine 

282 Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center 

286 ADMINISTRATION 

286 Administrative and Support Activities 

289 Financial Management Activities 

290 Smithsonian Institution Women's Council Activities 

293 MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT 

293 Office of Development 

293 National Board of the Smithsonian Associates 

294 Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates 
294 Smithsonian National Associate Program 

302 Smithsonian Resident Associate Program 

310 PUBLIC INFORMATION 

310 Office of Public Affairs 

313 IOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 

331 WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS 

333 READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC. 

336 SMITHSONIAN SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE, INC. 

341 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

345 CHRONOLOGY 

363 APPENDIXES 



vm 



Smithsonian Year * 1980 



STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 




Exhibits are for everyone an exuberant and immediate means to the increase of 
knowledge. This costume band from New York City took part in the Caribbean 
Carnival parade of the annual Festival of American Folklife, presenting a show of 
imagination and wonder against the Castle background. 



Exhibits Are for Everyone 



S. DILLON RIPLEY 



At the risk of being accused of reckless hyperbole it seems fair to 
state that this past year has seen the most distinguished hegira of 
modern times, the miraculous reappearance of President Washing- 
ton and his lady in Washington, D.C. The Washingtons have come 
to grace our midst for three years, he calm and assured, those eyes 
looking out and past one into the middle distance, as if the stability 
of the dollar bill could never be gainsaid, she rosy-cheeked and 
mob-capped, epitome of the mother figure all of us associate with 
reassurance. 

From what I have been told Washington disliked Boston, or at 
least is alleged to have felt uncomfortable there, certainly in 1775. 
In that initial year of the war he found New Englanders as officers 
in the Army "generally speaking the most indifferent kind of 
people I ever saw." Washington was in Boston on only three oc- 
casions during his lifetime and yet by the ironies of fate, Mrs. 
Stuart's debts, and the necessity to sell her late husband's life 
sketches of the Washingtons, the President and his lady had been 
condemned to be on display in that alleged "Athens" since 1831, 
having been purchased for the Boston Athenaeum's collection of 
art from Mrs. Stuart. Gilbert Stuart was born in Rhode Island, 
and the most famous of his subjects, painted from life in Philadel- 
phia, the father figure and his consort, were Virginians to the core. 
How strange it was to have their likenesses hung, forlornly, for so 
many years in the home of the bean and the cod. When I first saw 
the portraits there in my childhood at the Museum of Fine Arts, 
that temple of the visual and plastic arts, where they had hung 
already for two generations, in a corridor as I recall off the entrance 
foyer leading to the restrooms, portraits were infinitely less thought 
of as works of art and testaments of history than they are today. 



In 1978 the Smithsonian was visited by a delegation of respon- 
sible trustees and lawyers of the two Boston institutions, the 
Athenaeum and the Museum of Fine Arts, with the suggestion that 
we should somehow purchase the portraits for our Johnny-come- 
lately National Portrait Gallery, born fifty years too late. The price 
seemed astronomical, but we were assured it represented fair mar- 
ket value for these unique documents, and this was probably true. 
How can one set a value on the Bill of Rights, or the manuscript 
of the Star-Spangled Banner? These paintings, done from life, are 
"pieces of the true cross," as one of the National Portrait Gallery 
commissioners was wont to declaim. There was no real doubt in 
anyone's mind that Washington City had somehow come of age, 
become sophisticated enough to be able to provide these great 
paintings with an appropriate setting. But how to afford them? We 
did not have five million dollars, nor could we arouse interest 
among our benefactors, the United States Congress; they did not 
feel that they could afford them for us either. Great philanthropists 
around the country were unenthusiastic. No one wanted to join in 
the responsibility of bringing the father of his country home to the 
town named for him. Besides, the District of Columbia being a 
political city in spite of its cultural establishment, there were those 
who aspired to place the Stuart portraits in the White House, feel- 
ing this setting would reflect better on the dignity of the sitters, as 
well perhaps as the reclame of the donors. 

And so the Washingtons were in limbo for the moment. The 
need for money for endowments of the early library society, the 
Boston Athenaeum, was great — but no one stepped forward from 
the wings. At this juncture events occurred which might well have 
convinced the General that his thoughts about Boston were cor- 
rect. An election was coming up, and local politicians, perhaps not 
art connoisseurs by admission, but certainly patriots all, sprang into 
the lists and declared that the Washingtons, "born and bred" as 
who could doubt in Massachusetts, must remain there once and for 
all. A committee to "Save Our Stuarts" was hastily set up, and all 
contact with the bureaucrats in the Smithsonian was eschewed. 
"How dare those Feds try to steal our jewels?" was the rallying 
cry. "Don't we pay taxes enough already?" chorused the politicians. 

The Institution sat back decorously and gracefully — and waited. 
The final result delights us. We now legally share the wonderful 



4 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



portraits with Boston's Museum of Fine Arts; each of us having 
raised approximately half the money for the Boston Athenaeum's 
requirements, we each can exhibit the Washingtons for a three- 
year period. Strangely enough, this concept of sharing unique 
works of art or history is still new, little endorsed by the great art 
or historical museums. Pride of possession is still too strong in the 
hearts of curators, acquisitors all. But it was a grand acquisitor 
himself, the sometime Metropolitan Museum of Art director, 
Thomas Hoving, whom I recall suggesting such a program, one 
with which I am heartily in accord. Solomon's choice, one might 
say. Nonsense! Sometimes works of unique importance should be 
shared, if not physically divided. There is too much parsimony in 
the world of unique objects as it is. 

Finally the Smithsonian is delighted to have the Washingtons 
back near home, by an agreement reached when all the shouting 
and exhortations died away from the bunting-draped platforms 
whence they apparently emanated. The nation can only be the 
better for this exposure to great works, and benefit from the su- 
perior evidence which President and Mrs. Washington provide. 

A community of interest should be ours in the sharing as well as 
the acquiring and exhibiting of works of art. It is to be hoped in the 
future that more museums will feel this way. Exhibits are for 
everyone and we have been fortunate to share the Washingtons, as 
we are fortunate to share exhibitions. Our success here is with the 
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, the prime 
outreach service in the field of art and history exhibitions that the 
Institution can offer. This is a far more effective service for us to 
manage than the oft-repeated plea that we should manage entire 
museums in other states. We feel it is much more effective to mount 
exhibitions, with all the talent we can muster, and then launch 
them in company with colleagues across the land. The act creates 
mutuality of interest, is similarly educational for everyone includ- 
ing a vast and growing public, and accentuates part of our mandate 
for "increase and diffusion." The future is with us in the develop- 
ment of the traveling exhibitions. 

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sites), 
founded in 1952, is now the largest and most diversified agency of 
its kind in the world. Up to one hundred and twenty different ex- 
hibitions have been circulated in one vear in the United States and 



Statement by the Secretary I 5 



several have gone abroad. These exhibitions reach over five million 
visitors to museums, libraries, universities, and other organizations 
whose programs would have been far less diversified and meaning- 
ful had it not been for the contributions made by sites. During 
1980, dozens of new exhibitions were introduced for circulation. 
Among the most important was the first thorough survey of the 
history of the French porcelain manufactory of Sevres. This was 
accompanied by the first comprehensive catalogue in English de- 
scribing the history and the production of that great porcelain cen- 
ter. Western Views and Eastern Visions, a collection of photo- 
graphs mostly taken by members of the United States Geological 
Survey during the second half of the nineteenth century, and for the 
most part never exhibited before, gives an unvarnished view of the 
grand spectacle that our early explorers encountered as they were 
mapping this country. Another highly successful exhibition, drawn 
from the collection of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, 
dealt with Twentieth Century Sculptors and Their Drawings. 

sites has ambitious plans to expand its foreign offerings and to 
develop the means to circulate an increasing number of our own 
exhibitions abroad. To find the means and techniques to do so 
efficiently will be one of the major tasks of sites's new director, 
Peggy Loar. She comes to the Smithsonian from the Institute of 
Museum Services, where she was assistant director for program 
and policy. Miss Loar has broad museum experience and is well 
prepared to formulate programs responsible to the needs of sites's 
constituency. 

Like sites whose exhibitions reach across the country and the 
world, the magazine Smithsonian, celebrating its tenth anniversary, 
reaches an ever-larger number of Associates here and abroad, 
nearing two million at this date. Our radio programs, notably 
Galaxy, now are heard by sixty million people per year around the 
world. The Institution's Press, operating in the black, has published 
a variety of excellent books, while Smithsonian Exposition Books, 
a publishing enterprise largely for Associates, has had a most suc- 
cessful season with a book on The American Land, and a history of 
presidential elections, titled Every Four Years, now in its second 
printing. 

Exhibitions often associate themselves closely with performances 
or colloquia. The Einstein Centennial was a fortunate occasion to 



6 / Smithsonian Year 1980 




A community of interest is ours in the sharing of works of art. Dur- 
ing filming of A Sense of Discovery, produced by the Office of Tele- 
communications, conservators at ncfa restore an early American 
portrait. Below. Participants at the Edison Centennial Symposium in 
San Francisco view an installation of the sites exhibition on Edison 
and the Electrical Age: One Hundred Years. 




correlate a seminar at Princeton University with an exhibition at 
the National Museum of History and Technology. Exhibitions also 
include new acquisitions. The Smithsonian has been fortunate this 
past year in acquiring gifts in the field of modern art, notably the 
extremely important collection (part purchase with Regents Col- 
lections Acquisition funds, part gift from Vincent Melzac) of 
contemporary or recent painters including the Washington School, 
as well as seminal works by William de Kooning, Kenneth Noland, 
and Jules Olitsky. 

In discussions of museum operations, a distinction is often made 
between research and exhibition — a distinction that is also en- 
shrined in the language of federal budgets. Although in some 
ways it may be useful to make this distinction, the fact is that any 
good exhibition is necessarily both the product of research and a 
contribution to knowledge. In the case of art and science museums, 
where the evidence can be fully understood and appreciated only 
when it is physically before the viewer, exhibitions are in a real 
sense the most appropriate means of publishing the results of re- 
search. In a university, such museum exhibitions should qualify 
equally with books insofar as they may represent new discoveries 
of demonstrable theories of the professor-curator. This was a fact 
I was at pains to point out to faculty administrators during my 
work at Yale University, for too often such evidence of scholarly 
research tended to be overlooked. In art museums there is at least 
an exhibition catalogue published and distributed as tangible 
printed evidence of scholarly production. Curators among the 
scientific disciplines usually have less recourse to publications, 
however, and have sometimes been penalized through lack of com- 
prehension by administrators of the original scholarship and char- 
acter of exhibitions. 

In recent years the art and history museums of the Smithsonian 
family have increasingly drawn upon their excellent scholarly staffs 
to create a growing number of exhibitions that have in this sense 
constituted important contributions to knowledge. While our mu- 
seums have continued to show exhibitions organized elsewhere, 
and have added to the pleasure and education of our millions of 
visitors by doing so, we are particularly pleased to have been 
able to share with other museums more and more exhibitions con- 
ceived and organized within the Smithsonian. A sampling of ex- 



8 / Smithsonian Year 1980 






I : ^, r ^:> 



V 




A bird puppet from the Bambara people of Mali is admired by a young visitor to the 
Museum of African Art's 1980 summer exhibition on Puppets from West Africa. 






3 



#1 1 



is 



\ 




HH 



Raphael Soyer, the dean of American realists, came to the Hirshhorn Museum and 
Sculpture Garden for his 80th birthday exhibition that opened at the museum on 
December 4, 1979. Here Soyer poses in front of his painting Portraits at a Party, 
a recent gift to the collection from Joseph H. Hirshhorn. The museum owns more 
of this artist's works — 62 paintings and drawings — than any other institution. 



hibitions of this sort indicates something of the range of our 
museums' contributions to this common enterprise of scholars and 
curators everywhere. 

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden's important 
retrospective Miro: Selected Paintings was later seen at the Al- 
bright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo; Hirshhorn exhibitions of 
works by Botero and Edwin Dickinson traveled to Corpus Christi, 
Texas, and Louisville, Kentucky, respectively. An exhibition of oil 
sketches by Frederic Church from the collection of the Cooper- 
Hewitt Museum was organized by an outside curator, traveled to 
eight cities under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution 
Traveling Exhibition Service, and was finally shown at the Cooper- 
Hewitt this year. The National Portrait Gallery's exhibition Time 
of Our Lives, consisting of selections from its collection of Time 
magazine cover portraits, was shown at the Lyndon B. Johnson 
Library in Austin. Three important exhibitions organized by the 
National Collection of Fine Arts were shared widely with museums 
elsewhere in this country and abroad: Hugo Robus (1885—1964) 
was seen at the Allentown Art Museum in Pennsylvania and the 
Columbus Museum of Art in Ohio; Drawings of Morris Louis 
traveled to the Fogg Art Museum, the Israel Museum, and the Tel 
Aviv Museum; Across the Nation: Fine Art in Federal Buildings, 
1972-79, an exhibition of ninety-seven drawings and maquettes 
from the artist-in-architecture program of the General Services 
Administration will travel to the Hunter Museum of Art in Chat- 
tanooga and to four other cities. The Renwick Gallery's beautiful 
exhibition The Harmonious Craft: American Musical Instruments 
was shared with the American Craft Museum in New York City, 
the Kohler Arts Center in Sheboygan, Wisconsin, and Northwest 
Missouri State University. Finally, as the result of a very happy 
and fruitful international collaboration between Dr. Otto Mayr of 
our National Museum of History and Technology and the Bavarian 
National Museum in Munich, the very important exhibition The 
Clockwork Universe: German Clocks and Automata 1550—1650 
will be seen in both institutions. These are examples of the ways 
in which the museums of the Smithsonian have been able to use 
their own scholarly resources, and in many cases their own collec- 
tions, for the benefit of scholars and museum visitors throughout 
the country and the world. We expect that this sharing will con- 
tinue and increase in the years ahead. 



Statement by the Secretary I 11 



In all these exhibitions, the Collections Acquisition funds pro- 
vided by the Smithsonian Regents continue to play a significant 
role. As part of our trust funds budget allocated for the purpose, 
these sums, now only three years old, enable our museums to make 
important additions to collections. Thus the Hirshhorn Museum, in 
connection with the Miro retrospective exhibition, was able to ac- 
quire the painting Woman before an Eclipse with Her Hair Di- 
sheveled by the Wind, which was included in the show. Additional 
examples of such acquisitions are the collection of twelve Chinese 
calligraphy scrolls, exhibited so handsomely at the Freer Gallery 
of Art; the Gaston Lachaise sculpture Standing Woman (Heroic 
Woman) installed on the Hirshhorn Plaza; and those incomparable 
Gilbert Stuart portraits of George and Martha Washington, center- 
pieces now of the National Portrait Gallery's holdings. 

The possession of such funds is a new development for the In- 
stitution, and makes possible, often with matching grants, the pur- 
chase of material formerly beyond the Smithsonian's reach. Simi- 
larly the importance of some of our collections, in fields like gems 
and gemstones, increasingly attracts major gifts. 

This has been a significant year in terms of the outstanding re- 
search accomplishments with new facilities. For instance, latest 
reports indicate that the capabilities of the Multiple Mirror Tele- 
scope are exceeding our expectations. The site at the summit of Mt. 
Hopkins is turning out to be excellent for observation purposes and 
may be one of the very best such locations in the continental 
United States. The building is also exceeding our hopes in effective- 
ness. Modifications which we plan over the next few years should 
result in even sharper stellar images than are being obtained now 
(one-half arc second). Increasing the sharpness of the image is 
equivalent to increasing the diameter of the telescope by the same 
factor. Thus, these improvements are making available to American 
astronomers a telescope considerably more powerful than the 176- 
inch equivalent that had been anticipated originally. 

At the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute an important new 
facility at the Naos Marine Laboratory was opened by the presi- 
dent of Panama in July 1980. In this completely new aquatic 
system providing sea water for studies of captive marine organ- 
isms, salt water can be provided in raw, filtered, and sediment-free 
states, and the return flow can be sterilized so that organisms from 



12 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



non-Pacific sources can be studied without risks of contamination. 
This facility will greatly enhance the research potential of our 
marine laboratory and should provide an important adjunct to any 
future sea-level canal studies, long a concern of the Smithsonian. 

Our Marine Sciences Laboratory, located in the National Mu- 
seum of Natural History / Museum of Man, has acquired its own 
research vessel and airplane, and this year the laboratory success- 
fully conducted its first combined "sea and air" mission. The trip 
to the Caribbean focused on the study of coral reefs off the coasts 
of Haiti and the Virgin Islands. With the success of this expedi- 
tion, plans are moving forward for the study of Pacific reefs using 
the same combination of ship and plane. Meanwhile the simulated 
living coral reef and lagoon with over two hundred species of 
animals and plants, materials garnered from these Caribbean 
studies, is now in place in a working laboratory exhibition in our 
National Museum of Natural History. This exhibition, designed by 
Dr. Walter Adey and planned with major support from the National 
Science Foundation, bids fair to becoming a major public education 
exhibition to be reproduced — with National Science Foundation 
help — in other museums across the country. 

After over ten years of planning, countless meetings and studies, 
and numerous presentations to the Congress, one of the Institu- 
tion's highest priorities is soon to be accomplished. Ground will be 
broken for the new Museum Support Center which will permit, at 
long last, the removal of vast portions of the collections of the 
National Museum of Natural History from inadequate facilities to 
a milieu where they can be properly conserved, easily retrieved and 
studied, and contained within laboratories equipped with the most 
up-to-date technology. Thus, a significant new door is about to 
open; while in the decades ahead the facility will no doubt have 
to be expanded, in the near term it can only be described as a quan- 
tum improvement. 

It is irresponsible as well as unethical for museums to harvest 
collections only to let them gradually decay in ill-ventilated, over- 
heated, and crowded storage areas. The proper housing of the col- 
lections of the National Museum of Natural History is a priority 
not only of the Institution but of the nation, for these collections 
in major part are unduplicated and are totally irreplaceable. In 
their aggregate, they represent a significant portion of the nation's, 



Statement by the Secretary I 13 



indeed the world's, scholarly inheritance. It is with great satisfac- 
tion that I have presided over the achievement of this goal: I look 
forward to the dedication of the building, on schedule, toward the 
end of 1982. Thereafter, we plan to initiate a program of training 
in conservation to help alleviate the critical shortage of fully quali- 
fied conservators in America. 

The Smithsonian Institution continued to search for ways to 
meet the high standards of excellence in its exhibitions, programs, 
and activities while significantly curtailing energy use wherever 
possible. More aggressive efforts which began in 1979 with the 
creation of a Smithsonian-wide energy conservation task force 
culminated this year in the establishment during June 1980 of a 
formalized Energy Management Program. The new energy policy 
establishes a plan for renovating inefficient utilities systems and for 
upgrading utilities operating procedures, expands an employee 
awareness program, and establishes a monitoring group in each 
museum and facility to ensure continued Institution-wide support 
and participation. Since fiscal year 1978, the Institution has avoided 
more than $1.5 million in utilities costs, of which nearly $600,000 
was realized during the past year. This cost avoidance is attributed 
primarily to a computerized power management system and to 
improvements in the operation and maintenance of utilities distri- 
bution equipment. Among numerous additional energy conserva- 
tion measures implemented this year, the Institution installed 
solar collectors on the new Great Ape House at the National Zoo, 
reduced lighting levels and modified exhibit and office lighting 
systems, altered selected staff work schedules to reduce lighting re- 
quirements and to avoid using powered tools and equipment during 
peak energy charge hours, and turned off "down" escalators and 
selected elevators on peak demand days. Other energy-saving 
measures begun during the year included the initiation of a study 
with the goal of creating energy-efficient environmental zones 
within Smithsonian buildings, testing of a new carburetor device to 
trim use of fuel in Smithsonian vehicles, and experimentation with 
gasohol. 

Earlier in this account I have spoken of the "evidence" which 
the portraits of President and Mrs. Washington provide. I mean in 
this sense the manifestation that their appearance discloses. Wil- 
liam Walton used the word in the title of his book, The Evidence 



14 / Smithsonian Year 1980 








National Museum of Natural History volcanologist Dr. William Melson took this 
picture of Mount Saint Helens from the air shortly after it began to show signs of 
erupting. An apron of gray ash covers the snowy flanks of the mountain. Below. In 
response to public interest in the Mount Saint Helens eruption, scientists from nmnh 
organized a symposium on this fascinating national event. Answering public ques- 
tions here are (left to right) nmnh director Richard Fiske, chief U.S. Geological 
Survey volcanologist Robert Tilling, and museum volcanologists William Melson, 
Thomas Simkin, Lindsay McClelland. (Photo by Chip Clark.) 




of Washington (1966). Evidence is an aggregate of things, signs 
and symbols, past and present. It is not merely an exhibit, but the 
mood that it creates. In the artist's eye vision induces perspicuity, 
a seeing through. So it is with objects, objects collected by mu- 
seums, objects from an attic or a bureau drawer. When my father 
died I opened the drawer, and there spread before me was the 
materia vitae, like a Harnett still life, the spectacles, a silver pencil 
for a waistcoat chain, collar buttons, a photo of a boy in the uni- 
form of the Knickerbocker Grays, an old letter, and a diary. 

If we did not build the Museum Support facility, where would 
our conscience be? If we did not collect objects, what evidence of 
truth would there be? Objects are a surer evidence than legal 
precedents, whose evidence Henry Clay questioned in one of his 
speeches in the Senate in 1835: "a solitary precedent . . . which has 
never been re-examined can not be conclusive." It is not so with 
objects, be they the jawbone of Balaam's ass, or the golden cup 
of Alexander of Macedon. Now that people read less, perhaps ob- 
jects will return to their former status as evidence of truth, old 
testaments to revelation. Sometimes I have described museums, a 
bit facetiously, as the only legitimate growth industry (in a world 
of declining natural resources). It is true that in our present mode 
of life, in spite of the successes of the auction business, more and 
more people live under increasingly compressed physical condi- 
tions. Rooms are smaller, ceilings lower, attics like the trunk spaces 
of automobiles soon to be nonexistent. So, more and more, mu- 
seums are being called upon as a last resort to winnow the chaff of 
possessions — and authentically curate the results. Museums live as 
they grow, presiding over the verities of history. I once quoted a 
Dr. Scott cited by the famous writer and philosopher, Cardinal 
Newman, as saying that "growth is the only evidence of life," a 
statement with a convincing biological ring. If one assumes this to 
be true, then museums and their careful curating have a far higher 
priority in life than public recognition or support gives them 
credit for. 

In Washington today there exists a great paradox: life goes on 
but not much growth. One must eat and sleep and mind one's 
daily affairs, but the mood is numb. Too few people look at the 
dome of the Capitol or notice the soaring thrust of the Washington 
Monument, to sense the meaning and feel the past through mists, 



16 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



like swirling clouds in time of war and pestilence, or the scourge 
of slavery, the past of unequal opportunity out of which, in pain, a 
Republic has arisen. Washington is not a symbol of inefficiency and 
pettifogging, but is rather in all our hearts, as in the eyes of the 
world, the emblem of democracy, a land where wounds are bound 
and hopes for future peace are established. 

How can we recapture the past and find strength for the present? 
The two together promise hope and certainty for the future. I 
would venture that a walk along the nation's quadrangle, the 
National Mall, cathedral close of the Republic if you will, would 
provide a lesson in such feelings. Start at the Capitol, stand under 
Thomas Ustick Walter's great dome, 1 and then wander north and 
south to the adjacent original cubic spaces of Benjamin Latrobe. 
Stroll outside, down the lawn to the grand promenade, lined with 
our common history. Enter one or another of the buildings by your 
choice, and go on as far as you can, and if at the end, the result is 
not to produce in you a mood of assurance and confidence for the 
future, I would be surprised. For in this place there dwells a kind 
of reassurance, a reaffirmation of what we are about, the evidence 
of our purposes in being here at all. 

In this connection, thinking of the past, it is worth pondering 
what we are doing about the present. What, for example, are we 
doing about that great preoccupation of today, the role of creative 
equal opportunity and affirmative action? Over the past year sig- 
nificant progress has been made in the Institution's equal employ- 
ment opportunity and affirmative action programs. While roughly 
one-third of our work force is drawn from minority employees, and 
one-third are women, specific efforts are being made to improve 
their representation at the professional level. Similarly, we are 
seeking to afford more job opportunities to disabled persons. I am 
pleased to say that a variety of steps are being taken that in cumu- 
lative effect will result in a strengthened organization. Every job 



1 Perhaps our readers are not aware that the huge Capitol dome, symbol 
of stability, is alive? It moves. Joseph Henry, the first Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian, conducted an experiment to determine the amount of movement of the 
top of the dome as a result of expansion from the heat of the sun in daytime, 
and nighttime contraction, and found that there was motion toward the cardi- 
nal points of the compass in twenty-four hours. The top oscillates each day 
between three and four inches, giving a nod, as it were, to the fifty states. 



Statement by the Secretary I 17 



category in the Smithsonian has been analyzed to determine the 
composition of its employees. Areas of underrepresentation by 
women and minorities will receive particular attention. Recruitment 
efforts will reach out in a more positive way to seek all qualified 
candidates. A management review takes place on each tentative 
selection to ensure that all affirmative action requirements and 
needs have been realized. 

A concurrent program includes the development of an expanded 
upward mobility series to provide employees the opportunity to 
improve their qualifications for career development and advance- 
ment. Whatever the ideal is in this respect, it continues to be a fact 
that qualified minority or women applicants may not be available 
for many of the Institution's jobs, especially in certain specialized 
scholarly and scientific disciplines that have little financial appeal 
in the job market. Consequently, we have inaugurated a coopera- 
tive education program that will allow approximately twelve grad- 
uate-level students to intersperse periods of work at the Institution 
with course work. Over time we hope to be able to recruit candi- 
dates who have completed this program to take on specialized 
professional careers. Other college and university intern programs 
at the undergraduate level are now being studied. We expect to 
make a greater effort to interest young people in pursuing our own 
types of academic work— now poorly promoted by university de- 
partments — that will qualify them for professional consideration 
by the Institution. 

The present fashions in science training, particularly in biology, 
are all in the field of cellular research, biochemical- and biophysi- 
cal-related, and in the burgeoning field of molecular studies. Con- 
nected to this is the continual pressure for many of the brightest 
students to be weaned away from the natural sciences into fields 
of medicine, as it has continued to be in the years since I was my- 
self a university professor. And yet the need for studies in the 
long-neglected and quasi-unfashionable natural history fields be- 
comes ever greater as the planet continues to suffer from over- 
exploitation and gradual degradation of living and inanimate re- 
sources. Ecologists are as much needed for the future of our health 
as are medical doctors in research. Still there continues to be a 
curious apathy and lack of understanding among teachers and the 



18 / Smithsonian Year 1980 








Museums live as they grow, presiding over the verities of history. Youngsters stage 
a performance with stringed marionettes they constructed in a Young Associate class 
on marionette making, offered in conjunction with the Belgium Today international 
symposium. Below, nmht's Division of Education served fifteen hundred senior citi- 
zens in its Senior Series this year. Age itself knows no limit to the joys of making 
and tasting the real thing: ice cream! 



public alike, even as there is a lack of comprehension of the crisis 
in resources for energy. We toy with the issues of oil as we fiddle 
with the fate of our environment. It seems to be our mode to sing 
like the cricket the song of today and now, ever unable to think of 
the morrow. Natural history museums should be in the vanguard 
of support in ecological research for they contain many of the 
keys for understanding our future dilemmas. We continue to hope 
that the tide of fashion in biological and geological training will 
turn again to natural history studies in order to furnish recruits for 
these underestimated fields. 

Training of our employees in the increasingly important and 
complex area of personnel matters has been intensified and broad- 
ened. Over the past year some one hundred supervisors and mana- 
gers have taken a two-week course in personnel management and 
the development of supervisory skills. Altogether 275 persons with 
equal employment opportunity and affirmative action responsi- 
bilities took a two-day course to increase their knowledge and 
strengthen their ability to undertake such programs. We can only 
hope the intricacies of meeting the newly legislated requirements 
attendant on having a government-supported or appropriated bud- 
get will keep pace with the social achievements and benefits that 
we desire for all Americans. Many universities are at considerable 
financial disadvantage these days keeping the management super- 
vision in order associated with federal or state support. Increasing 
oversight and administrative burdens are contemporary phenom- 
ena, often hard to associate with the work of education or the 
carrying forth of research. Time alone will tell us perhaps of the 
effectiveness of such proliferation of regulatory procedures, requir- 
ing expenditure of vast sums for the recovery of overhead costs. 

This year, as in the past, we have witnessed a number of signifi- 
cant personnel changes in our senior staff. In January Michael 
Collins left the Institution's Under Secretaryship to pursue a 
career in private industry, but we were fortunate to find Phillip S. 
Hughes, long a friend of the Smithsonian, available to step in as 
our new Under Secretary. After more than twenty dedicated years 
of work at the Institution, Dorothy Rosenberg retired from service 
as my executive assistant, but only after we were able to present 
her with the richly deserved Secretary's Medal for Exceptional 
Service. Other retirements included Ted Rivinus from the director- 



20 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



ship of the Smithsonian Institution Press and Ann Campbell from 
the directorship of the Management Analysis Office. Also off to 
other fields for their efforts were Laverne Love, Women's Program 
Coordinator, and Jake Page, columnist for Smithsonian magazine 
and founding director of Smithsonian Exposition Books. In each 
of the foregoing cases, as in so many others, we have lost a Smith- 
sonian coworker but retained a colleague in the vital cultural pur- 
suits of this nation. 

We were particularly pleased to welcome the original and re- 
sourceful volcanologist Dick Fiske as the new director of the Na- 
tional Museum of Natural History / Museum of Man. We were also 
fortunate, as mentioned, in recruiting Peggy Loar as director of the 
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. Additionally, 
we were delighted to appoint Felix Lowe as director of the Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, Barbara Spraggins as director of the 
Special Events Office, and John Motheral as director of the Man- 
agement Analysis Office, all of whom had served in important 
capacities on the Smithsonian staff. At our Exposition Books office, 
Glen Ruh succeeds Jake Page. Don Moser and Joe Bonsignore have 
taken over from Edward K. Thompson as managing editor and act- 
ing publisher respectively of the magazine, while Ralph Backlund 
has become executive editor, with Anne Keating and Tom Black 
as associate publishers. And it should be noted that Jim Hobbins 
similarly advanced in my office to become executive assistant. 

Among the honors and awards received by members this year 
we should mention especially the recognition accorded to Steven 
Weinberg of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, member 
of the Smithsonian/Harvard Center for Astrophysics, named as 
a corecipient of the 1980 Nobel Prize for Physics. 

It seems impossible to keep for ourselves all of our staff, and 
this past year we were especially grieved by the untimely deaths of 
Jeanette Gladstone and William Grayson. They were both among 
the most universally appreciated staff — extremely personable, in- 
terested, interesting, and bedrocks of Smithsonian life. They will 
both live long and bright in the memories of those of us who are 
inspired to take up where they have left off. 

In the performance in vivis associated with the Institution we 
should give great credit to the presentation of the thirteenth 
Festival of American Folklife, held on the Mall from October third 



Statement by the Secretary / 21 




On their first United States tour, the Royal Dancers and Musicians from the 
Kingdom of Bhutan (in the Himalayan Mountains north of India) performed 
in the Division of Performing Arts World Explorer Series at Baird Auditorium. 



through eighth, and the Fourth of July festivities celebrated, in the 
words of John Adams, with "shews, games, sports, guns, bells, 
bonfires, and illuminations." Other celebrations included the 
twentieth anniversary of the civil rights movement marked by a 
working conference and an exhibition as well as songs and music 
of the time. The production of records, music, and dance were on 
our agenda this past year, as well as a colloquium titled The Muses 
Flee Hitler, and a special ceremony participated in by other insti- 
tutions and museums across the country and graced by the pres- 
ence of the regal and dedicated King and Queen of the Belgians, 
Their Majesties, King Baudouin and Queen Fabiola. 

So the Institution flourishes with exhibits, sound, publications, 
and distinguished collaborators and visitors of every ilk, the most 
varied, delightful, and — to paraphrase P. T. Barnum — biggest and 
best show on earth! 



22 / Smithsonian Year 19t 



^., 



J 




> 



t 




1 >- 



Secretary Ripley presented the James Smithson Medal to Pope John Paul II during 
the pontiff's historic visit to Washington and the Smithsonian in October 1979. The 
Smithson Medal is given to honor only the most outstanding achievements in art, 
science, education, or history. Below. King Baudouin and Queen Fabiola of Belgium 
view the Renwick Gallery exhibition of Traditional Marionettes in Trench Belgium 
Today. The Renwick typically shows special exhibitions on design and crafts. 







«l 




/ 



The Renwick Gallery exhibition Ceorg Jensen Silversmithy : 77 Artists, 75 Years was 
viewed appreciatively by Mrs. Otto Borch, wife of the Danish ambassador, and 
Georg Jensen executives. Below. Twelve masterpieces of Chinese calligraphy were 
acquired by the Freer Gallery of Art through Smithsonian Collections Acquisition 
funds. At the opening of the exhibition at the Freer Gallery were Chai Zemin, ambas- 
sador of the People's Republic of China (left), shown with Chang Wenying, first 
secretary of the Culture Department. 



i#* 



**«& 



5, '■ 




ffffe 





Board of Regents 



The board of regents held three formal meetings during the last 
year as well as a number of additional meetings of the Executive 
Committee, the Investment Policy Committee, the Personnel Com- 
mittee, and the Audit and Review Committee. 

The board's first meeting of the year, on January 28, 1980, 
opened in the Regents' Room with a tribute to the late Regent 
John Nicholas Brown, who died October 9, 1979. A memorial was 
prepared in fine calligraphy for presentation to Mrs. Brown. To 
fill the vacancies on the board occasioned by Mr. Brown's untimely 
death and the resignation of Regent Thomas J. Watson, Jr., to be- 
come Ambassador to the Soviet Union, the Regents entertained 
the recommendations of their search committee and voted to nomi- 
nate William G. Bowen and Carlisle H. Humelsine for statutory 
terms of six years each. These appointments were confirmed by joint 
resolutions of the Congress and signed into law by the president on 
March 13, 1980. 

The Regents' Personnel Committee reported that no conflicts of 
interest were apparent in the confidential financial interests state- 
ments of the senior staff of the Institution. In addition, the Audit 
and Review Committee reported on its first meeting of the year 
which had consisted of an overview of the Smithsonian's organiza- 
tion, programs, funding, and staffing; a description of the inde- 
pendent auditing of trust funds, conducted this year by Coopers 
and Lybrand; and an outline of the work of the Institution's in- 
ternal auditor. 

The Treasurer provided an analysis of fiscal year 1979 results in 
the Institution's trust funds and reported the receipt of fiscal year 
1980 federal appropriations. The financial reports included details 
on the allowance of the Office of Management and Budget and on 
the new programs highlighted in the fiscal year 1981 consolidated 
budget being submitted to Congress. In keeping with their bylaws, 
the Regents delegated certain authorities to the Secretary for the 
acceptance and transfer of specific kinds of gifts, grants, and be- 
quests. The Investment Policy Committee reported that the Insti- 



Statement by the Secretary I 25 



tution's investment managers had outperformed market averages 
over fifteen months prior to September 30, 1979. The Regents ap- 
proved the Five- Year Prospectus (fiscal years 1981-1985) which 
had been updated to reflect the Regents' decisions on the fiscal year 
1980 nonappropriated funds budget, allocation of the fiscal year 
1980 federal budget, and fiscal year 1981 federal budget allowances 
from the Office of Management and Budget. New exhibition pro- 
grams, equipment costs for the Museum Support Center, and plan- 
ning funds for the Quadrangle project were highlighted. 

The Secretary reported that the architectural/engineering firm of 
Shepley Bulfinch Richardson and Abbott had been selected to con- 
tinue detailed planning to supplement Junzo Yoshimura's original 
concepts of the Quadrangle development. Mr. Ripley outlined plan- 
ning expected to be accomplished with trust funds this year and 
summarized fund-raising efforts underway. 

The Regents appointed five additional members to the Museum of 
African Art Commission: Messrs. Richard Long, Beverly Carter, 
Roy Sieber, Walter E. Washington, and Mrs. Katherine White. The 
Regents also approved the actions of the commissions of the Na- 
tional Collection of Fine Arts and the National Portrait Gallery and 
appointed the Honorable Robert B. Morgan and Mr. Thomas Mel- 
lon Evans to the latter commission. The Secretary was authorized 
to renew negotiations with the Boston Athenaeum for the purchase 
of the Gilbert Stuart portraits of George and Martha Washington. 
Subsequent to the meeting the chairman of the Executive Com- 
mittee approved an agreement by which the Smithsonian would 
pay $2,750,000, the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, would pay 
$2,125,000, and the Boston Athenaeum would lower the purchase 
price to $4,875,000; the Smithsonian and the Museum of Fine Arts 
would be equal partners in ownership and would exhibit the por- 
traits for equal time, alternating every three years; and the Smith- 
sonian, after consultation, would have final authority and respon- 
sibility for conservation. 

The Regents voted to present the Henry Medal to Gordon N. 
Ray for his distinguished leadership of the Smithsonian Council 
since 1970. The medal was presented on behalf of the Regents by 
the Secretary at the Regents' Dinner May 4, 1980, where Dr. Ray 
spoke briefly about the history and significance of the council since 
its founding. 



26 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



The Secretary presented a report of the work in popular book 
publishing accomplished by Smithsonian Exposition Books and the 
Regents approved the publication of Every Four Years . . . The 
American Presidency. The Secretary also discussed the status of the 
Museum Support Center, the Mall Parking Study, and the Equal 
Opportunity Program, which subject, together with the future of 
the Belmont Conference Center property, was referred to the Audit 
and Review Committee for examination. Additional reports were 
received on the impact of the Panama Canal Treaty implementing 
legislation on the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute; Civil 
Service reform; major construction projects; the status of the 
Smithsonian Science Information Exchange; litigation; legislation; 
the return of museum objects to the Hill wood Museum; the ap- 
pointment of Dr. Fiske as Director of the National Museum of 
Natural History / Museum of Man; the Smithsonian delegation's 
trip to China. The Regents were also provided an updated report, 
"Survey of Smithsonian Institution Property." 

At the second meeting of the Board of Regents, held in the 
Regents' Room on May 5, 1980, the Executive Committee reported 
on its meeting of April 2 and made recommendations to the Re- 
gents on the agenda papers. Three Regents' terms were scheduled 
to expire on August 30, 1980, and it was learned that Dr. Gell- 
Mann and Mr. Burden would be reappointed (the joint resolutions 
of the Congress were subsequently signed into law by the president 
on July 25, 1980) while Dr. Haskins would not seek reappointment. 
The Chancellor asked the Executive Committee to serve as the 
search committee to seek a replacement, and the Regents elected 
Mr. Humelsine to serve on the Executive Committee succeeding 
Dr. Haskins effective September 1, 1980. 

The Audit and Review Committee reported on its meetings of 
February 28 and May 3, 1980. The Committee's agenda included 
a discussion with Coopers and Lybrand on their independent audit 
of trust funds for fiscal year 1979, and reviews of the Institution's 
inventory of collections, the process of budgeting unrestricted 
trust funds, the status of the Belmont Conference Center, and the 
Smithsonian's equal opportunity program. On the recommendation 
of the committee, it was voted "that the Board of Regents lends 
its full support to the Institution's intensified efforts and en- 
courages and directs the management of the Institution to take all 



Statement by the Secretary I 27 



possible steps to ensure equal opportunity within the Smith- 
sonian. . . ." 

The title of Regent Emeritus had been conferred on only one 
former Regent, the Honorable George H. Mahon, in January 1979. 
Upon the recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Re- 
gents voted to confer the title on twelve former Regents whose 
interests in and value to the Smithsonian and the Regents promise 
to continue: Dr. Jerome C. Hunsaker, 1949-1968; Dr. Crawford H. 
Greenewalt, 1956-1974; Honorable J. William Fulbright, 1959- 
1974; Honorable Hugh Scott, 1967-1976; Honorable Thomas J. 
Watson, Jr., 1969-1979; Honorable Robert F. Goheen, 1972-1977; 
Honorable William E. Minshall, 1973-1975; Honorable Sidney R. 
Yates, 1975-1976; Honorable Frank E. Moss, 1975-1977; Honor- 
able Elford A. Cederberg, 1975-1978; Honorable Claiborne Pell, 
1977-1978; Honorable Corinne C. Boggs, 1977-1978. 

The Treasurer reported on the status of appropriated and non- 
appropriated funds for fiscal year 1980, noting particularly govern- 
mentwide budget reductions and revised projections for the un- 
restricted trust funds. It was noted that the Office of Management 
and Budget reduced the Institution's appropriation request for fiscal 
year 1981, then pending before Congress. The Investment Policy 
Committee reported on the performance of the investment mana- 
gers and considered favorably the possible funding of the Quad- 
rangle underground parking facility from funds to be transferred 
in future years to unrestricted endowment funds, as a self-liquidat- 
ing investment, albeit of modest return. 

The Regents discussed two recent legislative actions which de- 
parted from the tradition of reserving the use of the word "na- 
tional," when applied to museums, to elements of the Smithsonian. 
Strategies were discussed for reaffirming the traditional use of 
"national" in the Smithsonian context. 

The Secretary reviewed refinements in the design of the Quad- 
rangle and noted that it has been generally well received by the 
National Capital Planning Commission. He added that an environ- 
mental impact statement and a revised report on program and 
space requirements are being prepared. Receiving a report on the 
status of fund-raising efforts, the Regents discussed a tentative 
financial plan which suggests as many as five sources of support: 
unrestricted nonappropriated trust funds netted from auxiliary 



28 / Smithsonian Year 1980 




This unusual portrait, donated recently to the National Portrait Gallery by Paul 
Mellon, depicts the American financier and minister to the Netherlands (1853-57) 
August Belmont. Renowned as a sportsman as well as a man of business and diplo- 
macy, Belmont here has taken the reins and appears to be enjoying himself in a 
scene rendered by the Dutch artist Wouterus Verschuur in 1854. 



activities; future parking revenues; proceeds from the sale of 
Museum of African Art real estate; contributions through fund- 
raising efforts; and federal appropriations. 

The Secretary presented reports on the Museum Support Center, 
including the status of design, hearings, and the conclusion — after 
considerable study — to seek appropriations for an innovative three- 
tiered, self-supporting storage system. Progress was noted in the 
inventories of collections in the National Museum of Natural His- 
tory / National Museum of Man and the National Museum of His- 
tory and Technology. 

The board accepted the annual report for fiscal year 1979, re- 
appointed Mr. Andrew Oliver to the Commission of the National 
Portrait Gallery, and endorsed the Executive Committee's and the 
Secretary's recommendation to the president that General Andrew 
J. Goodpaster and Professor Theodore Ropp be appointed to the 
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board (which appoint- 
ments were made by President Carter on June 6, 1980). The Re- 
gents voted to award the Hodgkins Medal and Prize to Dr. Luigi 
Jacchia, physicist at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, 
"in recognition of his pioneering work in atmospheric physics 
which has led to an understanding of the earth's upper atmosphere 
and its bearing on the welfare of man." 

The Regents received reports on the special Collections Acquisi- 
tion Program begun by the Regents with nonappropriated trust 
funds in January 1978. Attention was drawn to the acquisitions 
under this program, the funds generated by provisions for match- 
ing funds, and the condition of the present acquisition funds. Ad- 
ditional status reports were prepared on popular book publishing, 
the Mall parking study, construction projects, litigation, legislation, 
and the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange. 

At the Regents' Dinner, held Sunday evening, May 4, in the 
courtyard of the Fine Arts and Portrait Gallery Building, the Re- 
gents were treated to a glimpse of the newly arrived Gilbert Stuart 
portraits of George and Martha Washington. On behalf of the 
Regents, the Chancellor presented to Mrs. Ripley a necklace with a 
pendant of polished smithsonite mounted on a Smithsonian sun- 
burst medallion, and a citation which read in part: "The Regents of 
the Smithsonian Institution note with admiration the many con- 
tributions with which Mary Livingston Ripley has advanced the 



30 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



purposes of the Institution as well as the scientific activities of her 
husband, the Eighth Secretary. . . ." Her many contributions have 
covered the fields of voluntary organizations, the stimulation of 
horticulture at the Institution, and valuable collections of ento- 
mology and photographs from the field. 

The fall meeting of the Board of Regents was called to order in 
the Regents' Room on September 22, 1980. The Executive Com- 
mittee reported on its August 19 meeting to which all Regents had 
been invited because of the importance of reviewing the fiscal year 
1982 budget materials before their submission to the Office of 
Management and Budget. 

Acting on behalf of the Board of Regents, the Executive Com- 
mittee asked the congressional members of the board to introduce 
and support legislation to change the names of the National Col- 
lection of Fine Arts and the National Museum of History and 
Technology to the National Museum of American Art and the 
National Museum of American History respectively. Serving as a 
search committee to find a replacement for Dr. Haskins, the Execu- 
tive Committee recommended Mr. David C. Acheson to serve as 
the next Regent from the District of Columbia. The board voted to 
ask its congressional members to introduce legislation to that effect. 

Special note was taken of the extraordinary services which Dr. 
Haskins had rendered to the Smithsonian over the course of his 
four terms, or twenty-four years, not only as a Regent but as a 
most distinguished scientist. The Regents resolved to present to 
Dr. Haskins the Henry Medal in recognition of his manifold con- 
tributions to the Smithsonian. Knowing of his continuing interests 
in the work of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, the 
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, and the Department of 
Entomology in the National Museum of Natural History, the Re- 
gents also voted to confer the title of Regent Emeritus on Dr. 
Haskins. 

On the recommendation of the Executive Committee the bylaws 
of the Board of Regents were amended to include the category of 
Regent Emeritus for former Regents who accept responsibilities for 
continuing activities in the interests of the Smithsonian. The title 
is to be conferred by resolution of the board. 

The Treasurer's financial report included status reports on fiscal 
year 1980 federally appropriated and nonappropriated funds and 



Statement by the Secretary I 31 



on the fiscal year 1981 budget, reflecting actions taken by the Office 
of Management and Budget and the House of Representatives on 
the original request for appropriations. The Regents voted to ap- 
prove the revised budgets of appropriated and nonappropriated 
funds for fiscal year 1981 and authorized the Secretary to expend 
the funds accordingly. The board also approved the submission of 
the fiscal year 1982 budget to the Office of Management and Bud- 
get together with projections for fiscal year 1982 nonappropriated 
funds. 

The Investment Policy Committee presented an account of the 
total market value of the Smithsonian endowment funds and ob- 
served that during the last quarter the investment managers per- 
formed in line with or ahead of market averages. The Audit and 
Review Committee reported on its September 16 meeting in which 
the committee discussed progress on the current audit with Coopers 
and Lybrand, reviewed the Institution's operations and controls 
in the auxiliary activities, and discussed the legal liabilities of the 
Regents with respect to their responsibilities. 

The Secretary noted that work continues on the design refine- 
ments and the environmental impact statements for the Quad- 
rangle, and he presented a schedule of hearings for the project 
before the several cognizant commissions in the coming year. There 
followed a synopsis of fund-raising activities to date in the Orient, 
the Middle East, and among United States corporations. The Re- 
gents voted to request the congressional members of the board to 
introduce and support legislation authorizing construction of the 
Quadrangle. 

Earlier it had been noted that the current procedures for the ac- 
quisition and disposition of works of art for the National Collec- 
tion of Fine Arts and the National Portrait Gallery were un- 
wieldly, and therefore the Regents voted to delegate such authority 
to the Secretary, consistent with the policies of the Board. The 
Regents also requested the commissions of the National Collection 
of Fine Arts and the National Portrait Gallery to submit revised 
bylaws to the Regents at the January 1981 meeting. At the sug- 
gestion of the Secretary, the Regents resolved to name the theater 
in the National Air and Space Museum in honor of Samuel Pier- 
pont Langley, the third Secretary of the Smithsonian, astro- 
physicist, and aeronautical pioneer. The Regents also voted to 



32 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



authorize the Secretary to negotiate for the purchase of approxi- 
mately twenty acres adjacent to properties held at the Chesapeake 
Bay Center for Environmental Studies. 

The Secretary submitted a report on the status of the Museum 
Support Center on which construction is expected to begin in early 
1981. The Secretary also reported on changes anticipated in the 
popular book publishing program following a thorough review by 
a special panel of Smithsonian Council members, outside pub- 
lishers, and Smithsonian staff. A new policy on the use of Smith- 
sonian facilities (Office Memorandum 724) was brought to the 
Regents' attention, as was a report on Smithsonian arrangements 
for conducting research in foreign nations. The Secretary high- 
lighted the planned implementation of noncapital intensive rec- 
ommendations from the completed study for visitors' access to the 
Mall museums. The Regents also received for comment a draft of 
the revised Five-year Prospectus for fiscal years 1982—86. Other 
reports furnished in advance concerned major construction proj- 
ects, the equal employment opportunity program, legislation, liti- 
gation, the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, the Smith- 
sonian Tropical Research Institute, and the National Armed Forces 
Museum Advisory Board. 

The Regents' Dinner was held at the Supreme Court on Sunday 
evening, September 21, 1980, at the invitation of the Chancellor 
and Mrs. Burger. The dinner was in honor of Dr. Haskins, who 
was presented the Henry Medal by the Chancellor. The Secretary 
presented the Hodgkins Medal and Prize to Dr. Jacchia of the 
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. 



Statement by the Secretary I 33 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION OPERATING FUNDS 
Fiscal Years 1970, 1975, and 1978-1980 

(In $l,000,000's) 



200 



175 



150 



125 



100 



FUNDS PROVIDED 








i i ii i 1 1 










2.S 


™«^™ 














V.U.M, ' 




Auxiliary 

and 

Bureau 

Activities 

Expenses 



Net 

Unrestricted [_ Trust 
Restricted Funds 



Nonappropriated 
Trust Funds 
(Gross Revenues) 



Federal Grants 
and Contracts 



Federal 

Appropriations 



1970 



1975 



1978 1979 1980 



200. 



175 



150 



125 



100 



75 



50 



25 



FUNDS APPLIED 




1970 



1975 





™ 




To Plant and Endowment 



Administration and Facilities Services 



Auxiliary and Bureau Activities Expenses 



- Special Programs 
~ Museum Programs 
v Public Service 



History and Art 



Science 



1978 1979 1980 



Smithsonian Institution • 1980 
FINANCIAL REPORT 



CHRISTIAN C. HOHENLOHE, TREASURER 



Summary: During fiscal year 1980 the Smithsonian received strong 
financial support from the Congress, from donors, from granting 
agencies, and from revenue-generating auxiliary activities. This mix 
of funding from public and private sources, from gifts and earned 
income, permitted notable progress and accomplishments in re- 
search, exhibits, publications, and public education. Growth in the 
overall budget of the Institution in fiscal year 1980 and prior 
years may be seen in the bar chart on the facing page which dis- 
plays the source and application by broad category of operating 
funds. In the context of unusually high inflation, however, this 
growth was mainly illusory; the larger part of the increased budget 
was necessarily devoted to keeping up with the higher costs of 
salaries and supplies, of utilities and collection purchases, with the 
balance limited to selected high-priority concerns of the Institution. 
The full-time staff of the Smithsonian grew less than 3 percent 
over the year, and the increase was almost exclusively in per- 
sonnel for administrative and facilities services, for auxiliary activ- 
ities, and for short-term research projects. 

In a time of difficulty for most cultural and research organiza- 
tions, the continued generous support of the Congress was greatly 
appreciated. The overall federal appropriations, which totaled over 
$144 million, provided core support for basic research, exhibition, 
and education programs; for acquisition, care, documentation, and 
study of the national collections; and for construction, mainte- 
nance, restoration, and protection of Smithsonian facilities. Be- 
yond offsetting the major portion of uncontrollable cost increases, 
appropriations for operating purposes gave significant new fund- 
ing for the Museum of African Art, for collections inventory 



35 



and management, and for administrative offices. The Museum Sup- 
port Center, for which $20.6 million of construction funding was 
appropriated, will be of immeasurable benefit to the Smithsonian in 
carrying out its responsibilities of caring for the national collections 
for future generations. Also of great importance were construction 
funds to allow forward progress on the facilities development for 
the National Zoological Park, as well as moneys for the less visible 
but necessary repairs and renovations of other Smithsonian 
buildings. 

Favorable public support for the Institution also continued, as 
evidenced by the success of the ongoing Smithsonian Associate 
programs and other educational auxiliary activities, as well as gifts 
and grants from individuals and foundations. These revenues allow 
the Institution to fund a significant portion of its programs from 
nonappropriated sources, extending the reach of the research and 
education activities beyond what is supported with federal appro- 
priations. Net revenues from nonappropriated sources, after de- 
duction of operating expenses and cost of sales of auxiliary activ- 
ities, increased slightly over last year. This was sufficient to 
continue ongoing programs such as the Regents Collections Ac- 
quisition, Scholarly Studies, and Educational Outreach programs, 
operating allotments to numerous bureaux, and reserves for con- 
struction and land acquisition. The major collection purchase of the 
year was, of course, the acquisition of the Gilbert Stuart portraits 
of George and Martha Washington. Increasing the endowment 
funds is a high priority of the Institution, in order to maintain 
the balance of appropriated and nonappropriated funds which has 
been a source of strength in meeting goals and seizing new op- 
portunities. The Regents, therefore, followed the practice of recent 
years and authorized transfer of some $2 million of unrestricted 
trust funds into endowment, as well as a further $650,000 of 
National Air and Space Museum current funds into a fellowship 
endowment. 

Measured progress continued this year in obtaining funds for 
the Quadrangle, the site of a future center for Eastern art as well 
as the new home for the Museum of African Art, south of the 
Smithsonian Castle; a gift of $1 million was received for the project 
from the government of Japan, and indications of further gifts 
from other sources were favorable. The Quadrangle will be com- 



36 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Table 1. Financial Summary 

(In $l,000's) 



FY 1978 FY 1979 FY 1980 



INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS 

FUNDS PROVIDED: 

Federal Appropriations — Salaries & Expenses $ 93,393 $ 98,202 $107,764 

Federal Agency Grants & Contracts 11,157 11,412 12,947 

Nonappropriated Trust Funds: 

For Restricted Purposes 6,538 4,577 5,339 

For Unrestricted & Special Purposes: 

Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues — Gross 55,189 

Less Related Expenses (43,070) 

Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Net Revenue .... 12,119 

Investment, Gift, and Other Income 2,241 

Total Net Unrest. & Special Purpose Revenue . . 14,360 

Total Nonappropriated Trust Funds* — Gross .... 63,968 

— Net 20,898 

Total Operating Funds Provided — Gross 168,518 

— Net $125,448 

FUNDS APPLIED: 

Science $ 50,396 

Less SAO Overhead Recovery (1,841) 

History & Art 19,105 

Public Service 2,799 

Museum Programs 7,454 

Special Programs 1,981 

Associates and Business Management 244 

Administration — Federal** 6,346 

— Nonappropriated Trust Funds 3,795 

Less Smithsonian Overhead Recovery (3,359) 

Facilities Services 25,985 

Total Operating Funds Applied 112,905 

Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds) 

Unrestricted Funds — To Plant 869 

— To Endowments 3,271 

Restricted Funds — To Endowments 1,261 

Total Operating Funds Applied & Transferred Out $118,306 

CHANGES IN NONAPPROPRIATED 

TRUST FUND BALANCES: 

Restricted Purpose (Incl. Fed. Agency Gr. & Cont.) $ 980 

Unrestricted — General Purpose 850 

— Special Purpose 5,312 

Total $ 7,142 

YEAR-END BALANCES— 

NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS: 

Restricted Purpose $ 4,540 

Unrestricted — General Purpose 4,932 

— Special Purpose 9,604 

Total $ 19,076 

OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS 

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange $ 1,857 

Special Foreign Currency Program 4,000 

Construction 5,250 

Total Federal Appropriations (Incl. S&E above) . . $104,500 

* Figures do not include gifts and other income directly to Plant and Endowment Funds: 
FY 1978— $185,000; FY 1979— $96,000; FY 1980— $1,211,000. 
** Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1978 — $112,000; FY 1979— $47,000; 
FY 1980— $267,000. 



67,360 


75,150 


(57,557) 


(65,933) 


9,803 


9,217 


3,394 


3,825 


13,197 


13,042 


75,331 


84,314 


17,774 


18,381 


184,945 


205,025 


$127,388 


$139,092 


$ 53,002 


$ 57,907 


(1,850) 


(2,196) 


20,245 


26,224 


2,927 


3,129 


8,003 


8,974 


2,692 


3,204 


304 


345 


7,071 


8,048 


4,134 


4,937 


(4,038) 


(4,379) 


27,790 


30,630 


120,280 


136,823 


1,857 


1,342 


2,671 


2,031 


413 


757 


$125,221 


$140,953 


$ 171 


$ (225) 


33 


36 


1,963 


(1,672) 


$ 2,167 


$ (1,861) 


$ 4,900 


$ 4,675 


4,965 


5,001 


11,567 


9,895 


$ 21,432 


$ 19,571 


$ 2,063 


$ — 


3,700 


4,200 


6,575 


32,100 


$110,540 


$144,064 



pleted only with strong financial support from private contribu- 
tions, self-generated funds from auxiliary activities, and appro- 
priated funds; efforts to secure this support will continue in earnest. 



Operating Funds— Sources and Application 

The growth in past years of the Institution's overall operating 
budget has continued in fiscal year 1980, as may be seen in both 
Table 1 and the bar chart at the head of this section. Total gross 
operating funds grew from $184,945,000 in fiscal year 1979, to 
$205,025,000 in fiscal year 1980, an increase of $20,080,000, or 11 
percent. Federal appropriations constitute 53 percent of total gross 
operating funds provided, federal agency grants and contracts 6 
percent, and nonappropriated funds 41 percent, the same ratios as 
last year. 

After deducting the expenses of the nonappropriated fund auxil- 
iary and bureau activities, the growth in net operating funds was 
9 percent over fiscal year 1979. This increase in net funds of 
$11,704,000 was primarily in federal appropriations ($9,562,000) 
and federal agency grants and contracts ($1,535,000). Net op- 
erating funds, supporting the wide range of Smithsonian programs 
and activities, are derived 78 percent from federal appropriations, 
9 percent from federal agency grants and contracts, and 13 per- 
cent from nonappropriated sources. Application of these moneys 
by all Smithsonian bureaux is set forth in Table 2, with further 
supporting detail in other tables. 

FEDERAL APPROPRIATION 

Federal funds totaling $107,764,000, an increase of approximately 
$9.6 million over fiscal year 1979, were provided to the Institution 
for operating purposes. As in the past several years, a major por- 
tion of this increase was directed to generally uncontrollable items. 
Inflation in the areas of salaries and utilities accounted for some 
$6.9 million of the increase, while an additional $500,000 was re- 
quired to fund the first full year of operating costs for the Museum 
of African Art. The balance of $2.2 million was applied to a variety 
of program requirements. Collections management, a high priority 



38 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



of the Institution, received additional funding of over $1 million 
to support collections inventory, storage, and conservation in bu- 
reaux throughout the Institution, furthering efforts to gain more 
effective inventory control over the collections and to conserve the 
valuable objects and specimens. A second area of emphasis was 
the strengthening of administrative capabilities, particularly in the 
areas of facilities planning and personnel management. In the first 
instance the growth reflected increased focus by the Institution on 
maintaining and preserving its physical plant, while in the latter, the 
growth was needed to meet new requirements created by both the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 and the Panama Canal Treaty. 
Implementation of this treaty also necessitated major new funding 
for the Tropical Research Institute for personnel benefits and secu- 
rity needs. Finally, increased support was provided for exhibit pro- 
tection and various other priorities of the Institution. For seven 
months of fiscal year 1980 the Institution was subject to a hiring 
limitation imposed by the president of the United States; resultant 
savings in personnel costs and cuts in other expenses were applied 
towards a $550,000 deficit in utilities funding created by price 
increases that were beyond the Institution's control. 

FEDERAL AGENCY GRANTS AND CONTRACTS 

A major source of support, particularly for the Institution's re- 
search activities, is federal agency grants and contracts (including 
subcontracts from organizations receiving federal prime funding). 
The funding agencies for the awards, which in fiscal year 1980 ac- 
counted for 9 percent of net operating revenue, or approximately 
$13 million, are summarized in Table 3. As may be seen from this 
table, the majority of these funds was from the National Aero- 
nautics and Space Administration (nasa), primarily for the Smith- 
sonian Astrophysical Observatory (sao) which, as in past years, 
received substantially more grant support than other Smithsonian 
bureaux, nasa grants supported important space science projects 
in high-energy astrophysics and radio/geoastronomy, including 
preparation of instruments for the Space Shuttle program, sao also 
received significant funding from the National Science Foundation 
and the Department of Defense, as did the National Museum of 
Natural History for operations of the Oceanographic Sorting Cen- 
ter and for continuation of the Medical Entomology Project. Other 



Financial Report I 39 



Table 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds 

Year Ended September 30, 1980 

(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds, and Endowments) 

(In $l,000's) 



Nonfederal Funds 



Unrestricted 



Funds 



Total Aux- 

Fed- non- iliary 

eral federal Cen- activ- 

funds funds eral ities 



Spe- 
cial 
pur- 
pose 



Restricted 

Grants 
and 
Cen- con- 
eral tracts 



FUND BALANCES 10/1/79 . . $ — $ 21,432 $4,965 $ — $11,567 $ 4,864 $ 36 

FUNDS PROVIDED 

Federal Appropriations 107,764 — — — — — — 

Investment Income — 5,249 2,470 — 430 2,349 — 

Grants and Contracts — 12,947 — — — — 12,947 

Gifts — 3,226 14 898 57 2,257 — 

Sales and Revenue — 74,252 — 72,203 2,049 — — 

Other — 1,587 140 — 714 733 — 

Total Provided 107,764 97,261 2,624 73,101 3,250 5,339 12,947 

Total Available $107,764 $118,693 $7,589 $73,101 $14,817 $10,203 $12,983 

FUNDS APPLIED 
Science: 

Assistant Secretary $ 301 $ 346 $78$ — $ 1$ 94$ 173 

Natl. Mus. of Nat. History . . 14,657 2,351 78 — 624 479 1,170 

Astrophysical Observatory . . 5,028 13,409 2,217 — 433 123 10,636 

Less Overhead Recovery . . — (2,196) (2,196) — — — — 

Tropical Research Inst 2,257 255 54 — 151 50 — 

Radiation Biology Lab 1,837 208 — — 89 22 97 

Natl. Air & Space Museum . . 5,597 1,615 19 — 1,274 251 71 

Chesapeake Bay Center 744 587 137 — 106 112 232 

Natl. Zoological Park 8,521 310 38 — 152 24 96 

Center for Study of Man .... 575 33 2 — — 11 20 

Fort Pierce Bureau — 366 — — — 366 — 

Total Science 39,517 17,284 427 — 2,830 1,532 12,495 

History and Art: 

Assistant Secretary 317 96 77 — 12 1 6 

Natl. Mus. of Hist. & Tech. . . 7,177 735 148 221 366 — 

Natl. Coll. of Fine Arts 3,371 1,241 53 — 953 230 5 

Natl. Portrait Gallery 2,442 2,953 31 — 2,781 139 2 

Hirshhorn Museum 2,200 209 23 — 49 137 — 

Freer Gallery of Art 656 1,427 10 — 367 1,050 — 

Archives of American Art . . . 521 471 1 — 6 464 — 

Cooper-Hewitt Museum 629 1,502 329 — 636 482 55 

Museum of African Art 543 366 7 — 190 134 35 

Total History and Art. . 17,856 9,000 679 — 5,215 3,003 103 

Public Service: 

Assistant Secretary ..... 246 299 262 — 36 1 — 

Reception Center . 16 315 314 — 1 — — 

Anacostia Museum 567 40 22 — 17 1 — 

Intl. Exchange Service 323 — — — — — — 

Performing Arts 331 3,667 21 3,521 96 — 29 

Smithsonian Press 819 1,906 — 1,879 2 25 — 

Exposition Books — 4,041 — 4,041 — — — 

Total Public Service . . . 2,302 10,268 619 9,441 152 27 29 



Table 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds — continued 
Year Ended September 30, 1980 

(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds, and Endowments) 

(In $l,000's) 

Nonfederal Funds 



Unrestricted 



Restricted 



Funds 

Museum Programs: 

Assistant Secretary 

Registrar 

Conserv. Analytical Lab 

Libraries 

Exhibits 

Traveling Exhib. Service 

Archives 

National Museum Act 

Total Museum Programs 

Special Programs: 

Am. Studies & Folklife Pgm. . . 

Intl. Environmental Pgm 

Academic & Educational Pgm. 
Collections Mgt. /Inventory . . . 

Total Special Programs . 

Associate Programs 

Business Management 

Administration 

Less Overhead Recovery .... 
Facilities Services 

Transfers Out /(In): 

Treasury 

Coll. Acq., Schol. St., Outrch. 

Liability Reserves 

Net Auxiliary Activities 

Other Designated Purposes . . . 

Plant 

Endowment 

Total Transfers 

Total Funds Applied . . . 

FUND BALANCES 9/30/80 . . 





Total 




Aux- 


Spe- 




Grants 


Fed- 


non- 




iliary 


cial 




and 


eral 


federal 


Gen- 


activ- 


pur- 


Gen- 


con- 


funds 


funds 


eral 


ities 


pose 


eral 


tracts 



2,351 249 21 — 95 79 54 

115 — — — — — — 

654 — — — — — — 

2,730 266 214 — — 52 — 

1,259 5 — — 5 — — 

161 1,091 — 1,027 30 9 25 

367 43 42 — 1 — — 

794 — — — — — — 

8,431 1,654 277 1,027 131 140 79 

447 561 405 — 54 — 102 

408 — — — — — — 

478 758 131 — 586 38 3 

543 — — — — — — 



1,876 


1,319 
39,038 
14,616 

5,296 
(4,379) 


536 
282 


— 


640 
23 


38 105 


— 


38,677 

14,616 

359 


15 41 


— 


— — 


7,781 


4,716 
(4,379) 


90 


101 30 


— 


— — 


29,734 


896 


803 




93 


— — 


267* 






— 


— 


2,000 


— 


(2,000) 


— — 


— 


— 


700 


— 


(700) 


— — 


— 


— 


(8,600) 


8,600 


— 


— — 


— 


— 


1,226 


381 


(1,623) 


16 — 


— 


1,342 


1,281 


— 


61 


— — 


— 


2,788 

4,130 

$99,122 $ 


2,021 
(1,372) 
2,588 ! 


— 


10 

(4,252) 
$ 4,922 $ 


757 — 


267 


8,981 
&73,101 


773 — 


$107,764 


5,629 $12,882 



$19,571 $ 5,001 $ -0- $ 9,895 $ 4,574 $ 101 



* Unobligated funds returned to Treasury. 



Table 3. Grants and Contracts — Expenditures 

(In $l,000's) 

Federal Agencies FY 1978 FY 1979 FY 1980 

Department of Defense $ 968 $ 1,079 $ 1,078 

Department of Energy 266 304 340 

Department of Health and Human Services . 311 288 280 

Department of Interior 4 65 197 

Environmental Protection Agency 422 31 — 

National Aeronautics and Space 

Administration* 7,858 8,919 9,832 

National Endowments for the Arts and 

Humanities 226 105 118 

National Science Foundation** 400 385 651 

Other 632 314 386 

Total $11,087 $11,490 $12,882 



* Includes $534,000 (FY 1978), $583,000 (FY 1979), and $554,000 (FY 1980) in subcon- 
tracts from other organizations receiving prime contract funding from NASA. 

** Includes $137,000 (FY 1980) in NSF subcontracts from the Chesapeake Research 
Consortium. 



Smithsonian units receiving research support included the Chesa- 
peake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, the Radiation Biology 
Laboratory, the National Zoological Park, and the Office of Folk- 
life Programs. 

NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS 

The Institution received a wide range of funding from nonfederal 
sources for a variety of purposes. These nonappropriated trust 
fund revenues totaled $84,314,000 in the aggregate in fiscal year 
1980, an increase of almost $9 million, or 12 percent over fiscal 
year 1979. After excluding the auxiliary and bureau activity costs 
which are necessary to generate a portion of these revenues, the 
net income available for program purposes was $18,381,000, a 
modest increase of 3 percent of net operating funds which, as may 
be seen in Tables 2, 4, and 5, supported programs throughout the 
Institution. 

Restricted funds may be used only for the purposes specified by 
the donor or funding source. Total restricted fund revenues for 
the year were $5,339,000, consisting of $2,257,000 from gifts and 



42 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Table 4. Restricted Operating Trust Funds* 
Fiscal Years 1978-1980 

(In $l,000's) 



Item 



Invest- 
ment 



Gifts Misc. 



Total 

rev- Deduc- 
enue tions 



Net Fund 

Trans- in- bal- 

fers crease ance 

in (de- end of 

(out) crease) year 



FY 1978— Total $2,022 $3,478 $1,038 $6,538 $4,367 $(1,261) $ 910 $4,428 

FY 1979— Total $2,075 $1,775 $ 727 $4,577 $3,983 $ (345) $ 249 $4,864 

FY 1980: 

Museum of 

Natural History $ 154 $ 327 $ 2 $ 483 $ 479 $ — $ 4 $ 467 

Astrophysical 

Observatory 48 38 (6) 80 123 18 (25) 11 

Tropical Research 

Institute 17 45 — 62 50 — 12 56 

National Air and 

Space Museum 108 5 3 116 251 (667) (802) 147 

Chesapeake Bay Center . . 12 200 — 212 112 — 100 105 

Fort Pierce Bureau 664 — — 664 366 — 298 441 

Other Science 157 149 1 307 151 (101) 55 353 

Museum of History 

and Technology 48 290 (4) 334 366 — (32) 332 

National Collection 

of Fine Arts 42 63 — 105 230 — (125) 55 

National Portrait Gallery . 34 179 3 216 139 — 77 409 

Hirshhorn Museum 50 75 — 125 137 — (12) 500 

Freer Gallery of Art 818 26 487 1,331 1,050 — 281 633 

Archives of 

American Art 26 117 249 392 464 — (72) 268 

Cooper-Hewitt Museum . . 49 361 7 417 482 — (65) 256 

Museum of African Art . . 11 21 1 33 134 — (101) 73 
Traveling Exhibition 

Service 4 150 — 154 9 — 145 149 

All Other 107 211 (10) 308 313 (23) (28) 319 

Total FY 1980 $2,349 $2,257 $ 733 $5,339 $4,856 $ (773) $ (290) $4,574 



* Does not include Federal Agency Grants and Contracts. 



grants, $2,349,000 from investment income, and $733,000 from 
other sources including fundraising events of the Archives of 
American Art and the museum shop of the Freer Gallery of Art. 
Endowment income, as outlined more fully below, provides major 
operating support for the Freer and for oceanographic research con- 
ducted at the Fort Pierce Bureau, as well as for a wide range of 
other research and educational projects throughout the Institution. 
Major gifts were received during the year for exhibitions of the 
Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the National Museum of History and 
Technology, the National Portrait Gallery, and the Smithsonian In- 
stitution Traveling Exhibition Service; for collections acquisition 
at the National Museum of Natural History and the Hirshhorn 
Museum and Sculpture Garden; for documentation of the Cata- 
logue of American Portraits at the National Portrait Gallery; and 
for a long-term watershed monitoring project at the Chesapeake 
Bay Center for Environmental Studies. A transfer of $650,000 of 
funds available for the general support of the National Air and 
Space Museum was made to endowment funds, in order to ensure 
permanent funding of the Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History. 

Unrestricted Special Purpose funds consist of revenues generated 
by bureau activities, such as the National Air and Space Museum 
film theater and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum membership program; 
interest earned on investment of bureau fund balances; revenue- 
sharing with bureaux housing centrally managed shop and con- 
cession activities; and allocations of funds for the Collections Ac- 
quisition, Scholarly Studies, and Educational Outreach programs 
($2 million per year), fellowship awards ($822,000) and a number 
of other designated purposes. The Collections Acquisition Program 
this year permitted a joint purchase by the National Portrait 
Gallery and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, of the pair of 
Gilbert Stuart portraits of George and Martha Washington; exhibit 
of these paintings will alternate between the two museums for 
three-year periods. 

Unrestricted General Purpose funds are moneys, primarily gen- 
erated from auxiliary activities, that are available for general pur- 
poses of the Institution. Net general unrestricted funds, after ex- 
penses of auxiliary activities, totaled $11,605,000 (see Table 6), 
approximately the same level as in fiscal year 1979. Financial 
activity of the auxiliary activities that accounted for most of this 



44 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Table 5. Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds 

Fiscal Years 1978-1980 

(In $l,000's) 







Revenue 






Deductions 




















Bu- 












Gifts 








reau 


Net 


Fund 






Bu- 




and 




Trans- 


Pro- 


activ- 


in- 


bal- 






reau 




other 


Total 


fers 


gram 


ity 


crease 


ance 




Invest- 


activ- 




rev- 


rev- 


in/ 


ex- 


ex- 


(de- 


end of 


Item 


ment 


ities 




enue 


enue 


(out) 


pense 


pense 


crease) 


year 


FY 1978 


$175 


$1,327 


$ 


506 


$2,008 
$2,954 


$5,450 


$1,284 


$ 862 


$ 5,312 


$ 9,604 




FY 1979 


$254 


$2,039 


$ 


661 


$3,707 


$3,262 


$1,436 


$ 1,963 


$11,567 




FY 1980 : 
















Museum of 






















Natural History 


$ 42 


$ 1 


$ 


41 


$ 84 


$ 460 


$ 623 


$ 1 


$ (80) 


$ 266 


Astrophysical 






















Observatory . . . 


5 


7 




92 


104 


339 


431 


2 


10 


330 


Tropical Research 






















Institute 


— 


12 




4 


16 


113 


127 


24 


(22) 


68 


National Air and 






















Space Museum. 


195 


1,177 




16 


1,388 


147 


226 


1,048 


261 


2,443 


Chesapeake Bay 






















Center 


— 


22 




4 


26 


30 


91 


15 


(50) 


14 


National 






















Zoological Park 


74 


— 




215 


289 


49 


152 


— 


186 


999 


Other Science . . . 


19 


— 




5 


24 


115 


90 


— 


49 


97 


Museum of 






















History and 






















Technology . . . 


35 


3 




32 


70 


140 


219 


2 


(11) 


445 


National 






















Collection of 






















Fine Arts 


7 


5 




43 


55 


906 


947 


6 


8 


117 


National 






















Portrait Gallery 


1 


4 




2 


7 


1,025 


2,780 


1 


(1,749) 


23 


Hirshhorn 






















Museum 


10 


— 




9 


19 


12 


49 


— 


(18) 


123 


Freer Gallery 






















of Art 


— 


— 




1 


1 


375 


367 


— 


9 


28 


Cooper-Hewitt 






















Museum 


2 


564 




76 


642 


16 


211 


425 


22 


24 


Museum of 






















African Art . . . 


— 


199 




12 


211 


28 


(8) 


198 


49 


50 


Liability Reserves 


— 


— 




— 


— 


700 


— 


— 


700 


3,100 


Unallocated 






















Coll. Acq., 






















Schol. St., 






















and Outrch. . . . 


— 


— 




— 


— 


(1,134) 


— 


— 


(1,134) 


502 


Fellowships 


— 


— 




— 


— 


600 


533 


— 


67 


407 


Other 


40 


55 
$2,049 


$ 


219 

771 


314 


331 

$4,252 


523 
$7,361 


91 

$1,813 


31 

$(1,672) 


859 


FY 1980 Total 


$430 


$3,250 


$ 9,895 

















Table 6. Unrestricted Trust Funds — General and Auxiliary 

Activities Fiscal Years 1978-1980 

(In $l,000's) 

Item FY 1978 FY 1979 FY 1980 

FUNDS PROVIDED 

General Income: 

Investments $ 1,400 $ 2,276 $ 2,470 

Gifts 112 163 14 

Miscellaneous 48 40 140 

Total General Income 1,560 2,479 2,624 

Auxiliary Activities Income (Net): 

Associates 7,656 6,429 6,113 

Business Management 

— Museum Shops 738 287 1,022 

—Concessions and Parking 1,567 1,641 1,938 

—Other (169) (245) (191) 

Performing Arts 253 177 (75) 

Smithsonian Press (199) 292 252 

Exposition Books 2,105 1,036 305 

Traveling Exhibitions (112) (142) (268) 

Photo Services (185) (275 ) (115) 

Total Auxiliary Activities 11,654 9,200 8,981 

Total Funds Provided (Net) 13,214 11,679 11,605 

EXPENDITURES AND TRANSFERS 

Administrative and Program Expense .... 7,974 9,231 10,535 

Less Administrative Recovery 5,200 5,888 6,575 

Net Expense 2,774 3,343 3,960 

Less Transfers: 

To Special Purpose 

for Program Purposes 5,700 3,879 4,307 

To Plant Funds 869 1,853 1,281 

To Endowment Funds 3,021 2,571 2,021 

NET ADDITION TO FUND BALANCE . . 850 33 36_ 

ENDING FUND BALANCE $ 4,932 $ 4,965 $ 5,001 



income may be seen in Table 7. Total gross revenues of the activ- 
ities increased almost $8 million, or 12 percent. Since operating ex- 
penses rose in the same amount, driven by inflationary cost pres- 
sures, overall net income after expenses was relatively constant 
over the two years — roughly $9 million. Some two-thirds of this 
auxiliary activity net income came from the Associate programs, 



46 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Table 7. Auxiliary Activities Fiscal Years 1978-1980 

(In $l,000's) 

Sales Less 
and cost 
other of Gross Ex- 
Activity revenue Gifts sales revenue penses 

FY 1978 $53,420 $442 $23,536 $30,326 $18,672 

FY 1979 $64,846 $475 $31,884 $33,437 $24,237 

FY 1980: 

Associates $43,892 $898 $30,686 $14,104 $ 7,991 

Business Management: 

— Museum Shops* 14,588 — 7,273 7,315 6,293 

— Concessions/Parking . 2,427 — — 2,427 489 

—Other** 370 — — 370 561 

Performing Arts 3,446 — 1,063 2,383 2,458 

Smithsonian Press 2,131 — 1,003 1,128 876 

Exposition Books 4,346 — 1,492 2,854 2,549 

Traveling Exhibitions .... 759 — — 759 1,027 
Photo Services 

(Administration) 244 — 52 192 307 

Total FY 1980 $72,203 $898 $41,569 $31,532 $22,551 



Net 
reve- 



nue 



*** 



(loss) 



$11,654 
$ 9,200 



$ 6,113 

1,022 

1,938 

(191) 

(75) 

252 

305 

(268) 

(115) 
$ 8,981 



* Includes Museum Shops, Mail Order. 

** Includes Business Management Office, Belmont. 

h ** Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaux of $390,000 (FY 
1978); $397,000 (FY 1979); and $381,000 (FY 1980). 



generated largely by the Smithsonian magazine which has main- 
tained its large number of enthusiastic readers. Also contributing 
sizable surpluses for other needs of the Institution were the Mu- 
seum Shop and Mail Order divisions, owing to unexpectedly strong 
sales from three mail order catalogues, and the concessions/ 
parking revenues, which benefitted from the popularity of the In- 
stitution's museums. Publications of both the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Press and Smithsonian Exposition Books sold well during the 
year, largely through mail order, and the combined surplus of these 
programs exceeded $550,000. The unusually high level of interest 
rates during fiscal year 1980 as well as prior year additions to en- 
dowment funds resulted in investment income of $2,470,000 last 
year, some $200,000 higher than the prior year. 

These funds enabled the Institution to continue programmatic 
and administrative support to a large number of bureaux, partic- 



Financial Report I 47 



ularly the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the Office of Folklife Programs, 
the Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center, and the 
Office of Telecommunications. Transfers to Special Purpose funds 
were made to continue the Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Stud- 
ies, and Educational Outreach programs ($2 million), Fluid Re- 
search awards which meet small equipment, travel, and research 
needs of Smithsonian professional staff ($200,000), and the Smith- 
sonian Fellowship Program, at an increased level of stipend sup- 
port to pre- and postdoctoral fellows ($822,000). 

As in past years, an addition of some $2 million to the Institu- 
tion's Unrestricted Endowment Funds was made at year-end, in 
order to ensure continuation in the future of projects supported 
from current revenues. As described below, transfers were also 
made to support construction projects, primarily the Quadrangle 
and the Sensory Garden. The Quadrangle also received $40,000 
this year from contributions of the Smithson Society of the Asso- 
ciates, which is expected to provide further support to the project 
in the future. 



Other Operating Programs 

A separate appropriation of $4.2 million was received for the 
Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program in blocked foreign 
currencies accumulated from sales of surplus agricultural com- 
modities under Public Law 83-480. Of this amount, $3.7 million 
(the same amount as in fiscal year 1979) was to continue a pro- 
gram of research grants to United States institutions in Egypt, 
India, Pakistan, and Burma in the disciplines of archaeology, sys- 
tematic and environmental biology, astrophysics and earth sciences, 
and museum programs. The remaining $500,000 was to establish a 
reserve of Indian rupees to ensure continued program support of 
the American Institute of Indian Studies after the supply of "ex- 
cess" rupees is depleted. Obligation of these funds is shown in 
Table 8 by country and research discipline. 

In fiscal year 1980 funds for support of the Smithsonian Science 
Information Exchange were appropriated to the Department of 
Commerce, rather than the Smithsonian as in prior years, and are 
therefore not reflected in this report. 



48 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Table 8. Special Foreign Currency Program 
Fiscal Year 1980 — Obligations 







System- 


Astro- 












atic and 


physics 


Mu- 


Grant 








environ- 


and 


seum 


admin- 






Archae- 


mental 


earth 


pro- 


istra- 




Country 


ology 


biology 


sciences 


grams 


tion 


Total 


Burma 


$ 12,200 


$ 15,663 


$ — 


$ — 


$ 


$ 27,863 


Egypt 


1,062,986 


35,987 


48,769 


22,776 


— 


1,170,518 


India 


2,497,558 


218,146 


40,196 


234,313 


41,339 


3,031,552 


Pakistan . . . 


70,562 
$3,643,306 


148,284 
$418,080 


— 


— 


— 


218,846 


Total . . 


$88,965 


$257,089 


$41,339 


$4,448,779* 











* An additional amount of $243,077 was obligated by the National Science Founda- 
tion, Science Information Program, for translations and printing of scientific publi- 
cations requested by the Smithsonian Institution. 



Construction 

In fiscal year 1980 an amount of $32.1 million was appropriated 
to the Institution for construction projects of high priority to the 
Institution. The major portion of this funding, $20.6 million, was 
for construction of the Museum Support Center in Suitland, Mary- 
land. A further $6.3 million was provided for development and re- 
pair of facilities of the National Zoological Park; major projects 
included design of the Aquatic Habitats Area and continuation of 
Central Area construction at Rock Creek Park, as well as design 
of a small mammal and bird breeding complex and construction of 
a centralized hoofed stock management complex at Front Royal. 
Finally, an amount of approximately $5.3 million, more than twice 
the amount appropriated in fiscal year 1979, was designated for 
repairs and renovations at all other Smithsonian facilities. Of this 
amount, $3.7 million was for phased programs such as facade and 
roof repairs at the National Museum of History and Technology 
as well as the Renwick Gallery and the Arts and Industries Build- 
ing; the installation of fire detection and suppression systems; im- 
provement of access for the disabled; the correction of hazardous 
conditions; repair of heating, ventilating, and air conditioning sys- 
tems; and site development at the Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, observa- 



Financial Report I 49 



* 



Table 9. Construction and Plant Funds Fiscal Years 1978-1980 

(In $l,000's) 

Sources FY 1978 FY 2979 FY 1980 

FUNDS PROVIDED 

Federal Appropriations: 

National Zoological Park $2,500 $3,900 $ 6,250 

Museum Support Center 325 575 20,600 

Restoration & Renovation of Buildings . . 2,425 2,100 5,250 

Total Federal Appropriations 5,250 6,575 32,100 

Nonappropriated Trust Funds: 
Income — Gift and Other 

Cooper-Hewitt Museum 60 — 104 

Quadrangle — 5 1,051 

Total Income 60 5 1,155 

Transfers from Current Funds: 

Barney House 70 — — 

Chesapeake Bay Center 344 411 39 

Cooper-Hewitt Museum (10) — — 

Museum of African Art — 4 22 

National Zoological Park 110 — — 

Renwick Gates (Victorian Garden) .... 225 — — 

Sensory and East Gardens 100 10 241 

Quadrangle 30 1,385 1,040 

Tropical Research Institute — 47 — 

Total Transfers 869 1,857 1,342 

Total Funds Provided $6,179 $8,437 $34,597 



* Obligation authority of $19 million deferred until FY 1981 on instructions from Office 
of Management and Budget. 



tory. The balance of these funds were applied to numerous other 
facility improvement projects required to preserve and to main- 
tain the Institution's buildings in safe and working order. 

A total of $1,342,000 in nonappropriated funds was transferred 
to facilities development and land acquisition in fiscal year 1980, 
and a further $1,155,000 of gifts and other income was received 
for construction projects. A gift of $1 million for the Quad- 
rangle was received in March 1980 from the government of Japan 
in fulfillment of its earlier pledge toward this facility. In addition, 
the Institution set aside a further $1 million of unrestricted trust 
funds for the Quadrangle, of which $500,000 was designated for 
use in fiscal year 1980 to continue planning and engineering 



50 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



studies for congressional review prior to the appropriation of 
federal funds for this project. Additional funds were transferred 
for development of a Sensory Garden to be located in the area to 
the east of the Arts and Industries Building and for minor pay- 
ments related to land acquisition at the Chesapeake Bay Center 
and the Museum of African Art. 



Endowment and Similar Funds 

The Smithsonian Endowment Funds, as shown on Table 10, totaled 
$78,390,000 on September 30, 1980, as compared to $66,619,000 
on September 30, 1979. Of these funds, $77,330,000 is invested 



Table 10. Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1980 

Book value Market value 



ASSETS 

Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds: 

Cash and Equivalents 

Bonds 

Convertible Bonds 

Stocks 

Total Pooled Funds 

Nonpooled Endowment Funds: 

Notes Receivable 

Loan to U.S. Treasury in Perpetuity 

Bonds 

Common Stocks 

Total Nonpooled Funds 

Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances 

FUND BALANCES 

Unrestricted Purpose: True Endowment 

Quasi Endowment . . . 

Total Unrestricted Purpose 

Restricted Purpose: True Endowment 

Quasi Endowment . . . 

Total Restricted Purpose 

Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances 



$ 476,218 


$ 476,218 


12,850,192 


13,821,370 


621,000 


689,000 


49,423,674 


62,343,318 


63,371,084 


77,329,906 


38,138 


38,138 


1,000,000 


1,000,000 


9,769 


8,800 


3,321 


13,095 


1,051,228 


1,060,033 


$64,422,312 


$78,389,939 


$ 2,472,281 


$ 3,519,606 


22,439,628 


25,763,348 


24,911,909 


29,282,954 


35,918,089 


44,992,715 


3,592,314 


4,114,270 


39,510,403 


49,106,985 


$64,422,312 


$78,389,939 



Financial Report I 51 



in the Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund, $1 million is on per- 
manent deposit in the United States Treasury, and the remaining 
$60,000 is held in miscellaneous securities. The majority of the 
Institution's endowment funds ($49,107,000, or 63 percent) is 
restricted, with income available for use only as specified by the 
original donor; the remaining $29,283,000, or 37 percent, is unre- 
stricted and supports general programs of the Institution. A por- 
tion of these latter funds, however, has been designated by the 
Institution for specific purposes, such as the Lindbergh Chair of 
Aerospace History Endowment, which will enable term appoint- 
ments of leading scholars at the National Air and Space Museum. 
The unrestricted endowments have grown in recent years owing 
largely to transfers of moneys from current funds, as approved by 
the Board of Regents; $2,660,000 was so transferred in fiscal year 
1980, and $2,650,000 in fiscal year 1979. During the year, a 
thorough review of all endowment funds was conducted to ensure 
proper classification and documentation of their sources and re- 
strictions, resulting in the reclassification of several funds. A full 
listing of all endowment funds may be seen in Table 13. 

The Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund is invested under the 
management of outside professional advisory firms under close 
supervision of the Investment Policy Committee and the Treasurer, 
subject to policy guidelines approved by the Smithsonian's Board 
of Regents. As of the end of this year these firms, with the por- 
tion of the Fund under their management, were Batterymarch Fi- 
nancial Management (30 percent), Fiduciary Trust Company of 
New York (53 percent), and Torray Clark & Company (17 per- 
cent). During fiscal year 1980, the total rate of return (market 
appreciation as well as interest and dividend yield) of the Pooled 
Consolidated Endowment Fund, as calculated by an independent 
investment measurement service, was +18.8 percent, as compared 
to +12.9 percent for the Dow Jones Industrial Average, and +21.2 
percent for the Standard & Poor's 500 Average, both calculated on 
the same basis. Of the $11,774,000 increase in market value of the 
Fund during the year, $7,829,000 was due to market appreciation, 
$2,846,000 to gifts and transfers, and $1,099,000 to dividend and 
interest yield reinvested in principal (see Table 12). 

Under the Total Return Income policy followed by the Insti- 
tution, a prudent portion of investment return (interest, dividends, 



52 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Table 11. Market Values of Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds 

(In $l,000's) 

Fund 9/30/76 9/30/77 9/30/78 9/30/79 9/30/80 

Unrestricted $ 8,336 $12,525 $18,114 $22,614 $28,384 

Freer 16,035 15,410 16,807 18,303 20,771 

Endowment No. 3 12,701 12,343 13,462 15,022 17,047 

Restricted 6,561 6,601 8,647 9,617 11,128 

Total $43,633 $46,879 $57,030 $65,556 $77,330 



Table 12. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds 

for Fiscal Year 1980 
(In $l,000's) 



Inter- 
Gifts est Market 
Market and and Income value Market 
value trans- divi- paid Sub- appre- value 
Fund 9/30/79 fers dends* out total ciation 9/30/80 

Unrestricted $22,614 $2,660 $1,334 $ 951 $25,657 $2,727 $28,384 

Freer 18,303 — 1,068 763 18,608 2,163 20,771 

Endowment No. 3 ... 15,022 — 876 626 15,272 1,775 17,047 

Restricted 9,617 186 567 406 9,964 1,164 11,128 

Total $65,556 $2,846 $3,845 $2,746 $69,501 $7,829 $77,330 



* Income earned less managers' fees. 



and capital appreciation) is available for expenditure each year as 
income, and the remainder is retained as principal. This total re- 
turn income payout is determined each year based on a review of 
anticipated dividend and interest yields, support needs of the In- 
stitution's bureaux, inflationary factors, and the five-year running 
average of market values, adjusted for additions or withdrawals 
of capital. The amount of such income paid in fiscal year 1980 to 
endowments in the Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund repre- 
sented an increase of 5.5 percent over the fiscal year 1979 rate of 
income, and a further increase of 10 percent has been approved for 
fiscal year 1981. Even after this payout, $1,099,000 of excess inter- 
est and dividend yield was available for reinvestment into principal. 



Financial Report I 53 



Table 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1980 



Principal 



Income 



Fund 









Unex- 


Book 


Market 


Net 


pended 


value 


value 


income 


balance 


$ 77,212 


$ 115,453 


$ 4,568 


$ -0- 


21,771 


33,644 


1,263 


-0- 


178,777 


195,737 


9,890 


-0- 


123,749 


198,873 


7,307 


-0- 


41,786 


58,159 


2,137 


-0- 


1,332 


2,030 


74 


-0- 


287,043 


450,614 


17,176 


-0- 


458,300 


734,365 


26,982 


-0- 


2,525 


3,380 


150 


-0- 


541,380 


541,380 


32,483 


-0- 



43,686 



145,716 



859,970 



28,874 



28,874 



UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE— TRUE: 

Avery Fund* 

Higbee, Harry Memorial* 

Hodgkins Fund* 

Morrow, Dwight W 

Mussinan, Alfred 

Olmsted, Helen A 

Poore, Lucy T. and George W.* 

Porter, Henry Kirke, Memorial 

Sanford, George H.* 

Smithson, James 

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, 

Research (Designated) 738,406 1,185,971 

Subtotal 2,472,281 3,519,606 

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE— QUASI: 

Forrest, Robert Lee 2,244,621 2,213,074 

General Endowment* 18,307,656 21,467,383 

Goddard, Robert H 17,756 17,526 

Habel, Dr. S.* 500 500 

Hart, Gustavus E 1,013 1,311 

Henry, Caroline 2,515 3,235 

Henry, Joseph and Harriet A 101,647 129,380 

Heys, Maude C 213,413 215,344 

Hinton, Carrie Susan 53,770 62,918 

Lambert, Paula C 95,604 115,572 

Medinus, Grace L 2,106 2,142 

Rhees, William Jones* 1,572 1,844 

Safford, Clara Louise 96,042 100,586 

Smithsonian Bequest Fund 10,077 10,883 

Taggart, Ganson 786 1,225 

Abbott, William L. (Designated) 246,935 313,690 

Barstow, Frederic D. (Designated) .... 2,070 2,622 
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace 

History (Designated) 1,025,977 1,086,447 

Lindbergh, Charles A. (Designated) . . . 6,653 8,318 

Lyon, Marcus Ward, Jr. (Designated) . . 8,915 9,348 

Subtotal 22,439,628 25,763,348 

Total Unrestricted Purpose $24,911,909 $29,282,954 

RESTRICTED PURPOSE— TRUE : 

Arthur, James $ 64,003 $ 102,746 

Baird, Spencer Fullerton 58,710 91,844 

Barney, Alice Pike, Memorial 45,900 73,628 

Batchelor, Emma E 68,534 76,161 

Beauregard, Catherine, Memorial 81,147 102,889 

Brown, Roland W 53,914 70,614 

Canfield, Frederick A 60,982 113,203 

Casey, Thomas Lincoln 25,974 32,986 

Chamberlain, Frances Lea 45,067 72,294 

Cooper Fund for Paleobiology 21,878 25,651 

Division of Mammals Curators Fund . . . 3,584 4,330 

Drake Foundation* 333,084 386,714 

Dykes, Charles, Bequest . . '. 89,207 113,236 

Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort 17,396 27,894 

Endowment No. 3 13,716,662 17,046,912 

Freer, Charles L 16,422,587 20,771,334 

Guggenheim, Daniel and Florence 248,702 265,110 

Hamilton, James* 3,144 3,612 

Henderson, Edward P., Meteorite Fund. . 644 914 

Hewitt, Eleanor G., Repair Fund 14,529 16,668 

Hewitt, Sarah Cooper 86,004 98,384 

Hitchcock, Albert S 2,524 4,116 



81,312 


-0- 


724,171 


-0- 


644 


-0- 


30 


-0- 


48 


-0- 


119 


-0- 


4,753 


-0- 


7,912 


-0- 


2,312 


-0- 


4,246 


-0- 


79 


-0- 


81 


-0- 


3,696 


-0- 


264 


-0- 


45 


-0- 


11,526 


-0- 


96 


2,893 


17,522 


30,141 


771 


2,838 


343 


343 



36,215 



$1,005,686 $ 65,089 



3,775 


$ 4,889 


3,374 


3,727 


2,705 


12,896 


2,798 


27,435 


3,780 


12,941 


2,594 


12,159 


4,159 


812 


1,212 


2,832 


2,656 


9,378 


867 


6 


159 


2,946 


14,130 


34,123 


4,160 


23,030 


1,025 


9,287 


630,170 


440,529 


763,235 


400,234 


9,740 


-0- 


191 


191 


34 


213 


612 


-0- 


3,615 


-0- 


152 


852 



Table 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1980 — continued 

Principal Income 



Fund 









Unex- 


Book 


Market 


Net 


pended 


value 


value 


income 


balance 


100,000 


100,000 


6,000 


7,025 


97,654 


127,915 


4,700 


3,721 


30,631 


49,197 


1,808 


13,427 


51,459 


52,845 


1,906 


5,330 


5,570 


6,725 


247 


1,138 


11,177 


10,496 


792 


3,354 


31,389 


50,407 


1,852 


11,624 


429 


490 


18 


-0- 


193,887 


226,377 


8,317 


2,463 


26,344 


30,968 


1,138 


2,372 


27,997 


33,244 


1,142 


-0- 


38,151 


57,081 


2,097 


-0- 


11,862 


19,120 


703 


13,151 


47,854 


57,779 


2,379 


8,402 


193,325 


308,349 


11,330 


142 


360,965 


504,076 


18,312 


12,231 


1,341 


1,461 


35 


35 


2,582,750 


3,014,222 


109,515 


25,496 


28,976 


46,013 


1,691 


22,862 


275,560 


323,324 


11,320 


12,509 


9,990 


12,571 


462 


509 



Hodgkins Fund* 

Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie 

Hughes, Bruce 

Kellogg, Remington, Memorial 

Kramar, Nada 

Lindsey, Jessie H.* 

Maxwell, Mary E 

Milliken, H. Oothout, Memorial 

Mineral Endowment 

Mitchell, William A 

Natural History and Conservation 

Nelson, Edward William 

Petrocelli, Joseph, Memorial 

Reid, Addison T.* 

Roebling Fund 

Rollins, Miriam and William 

Shryock Endowment for Docents 

Sprague Fund 

Springer, Frank 

Stern, Harold P., Memorial 

Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library 
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, 

Research 232,367 313,186 12,166 8,644 

Walcott Research Fund, Botanical 

Publications* 92,715 

Zerbee, Frances Brinckle 1,520 



Subtotal 35,918,089 

RESTRICTED PURPOSE— QUASI: 

Armstrong, Edwin James 5,512 

Au Panier Fleuri 42,956 

Bacon, Virginia Purdy 187,993 

Becker, George F 323,051 

Desautels, Paul E 18,769 

Gaver, Gordon 2,484 

Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline . . . 8,369 

Hanson, Martin Gustav and Caroline R. 18,421 

Hillyer, Virgil 13,620 

Johnson, E. R. Fenimore 16,615 

Loeb, Morris 181,031 

Long, Annette E. and Edith C 869 

Myer, Catherine Walden 41,866 

Noyes, Frank B 2,015 

Noyes, Pauline Riggs 20,222 

Pell, Cornelia Livingston 15,380 

Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton* 608,239 

Rathbun, Richard, Memorial 22,061 

Roebling Solar Research 51,052 

Ruef, Bertha M 64,797 

Schultz, Leonard P 16,076 

Seidell, Atherton 1,284,402 

Smithsonian Agency Account 358,455 

Strong, Julia D 20,737 

Witherspoon, Thomas A., Memorial .... 267,322 

Subtotal 3,592,314 

Total Restricted Purpose $39,510,403 

TOTAL ENDOWMENT FUNDS $64,422,312 



143,210 


5,262 


8,380 


2,419 


90 


2,521 


44,992,715 


1,658,425 


1,163,816 


6,249 


225 


-0- 


42,576 


1,564 


-0- 


213,691 


7,851 


29,823 


369,860 


13,589 


-0- 


24,361 


875 


-0- 


3,008 


110 


622 


11,243 


413 


413 


23,382 


859 


3,599 


17,298 


636 


4,947 


17,313 


636 


10,332 


231,901 


8,520 


14,684 


1,432 


53 


258 


53,148 


1,953 


5,524 


2,679 


98 


2,214 


20,063 


737 


-0- 


19,621 


721 


47 


645,001 


24,259 


3,788 


28,113 


1,033 


15,290 


60,444 


2,221 


2,776 


67,467 


2,479 


4,283 


20,337 


747 


11,323 


1,461,248 


53,689 


114,126 


408,450 


14,064 


-0- 


26,417 


970 


1,344 


338,968 


12,454 


12,454 


4,114,270 


150,756 


237,847 


$49,106,985 


$1,809,181 


$1,401,663 


$78,389,939 


$2,814,867** 


$1,466,752 



* Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments. 

** Total Return Income payout; does not include $127,000 of interest income for investment of unex- 
pended income balances. 



A listing of the securities held in the Pooled Consolidated En- 
dowment Fund as of September 30, 1980, may be obtained upon 
request from the Treasurer of the Institution. 



Related Organizations 

The Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc. (ssie) is de- 
voted to facilitating the planning, management, and coordination 
of the nation's research through the collection, processing, and 
dissemination of information about ongoing research. Incorporated 
by the Smithsonian in 1971 as a separate nonprofit entity, ssie 
was funded in past years through an annual contract from the 
Smithsonian, equal to the appropriation provided the Smithsonian 
for this purpose. As noted in last year's report, the fiscal 1980 ap- 
propriation for ssie was made to the Department of Commerce in 
anticipation of the integration of the functions of ssie into the 
National Technical Information Service (ntis). Pending consolida- 
tion of these activities and termination of the corporation, the 
Smithsonian has continued to provide ssie with administrative and 
fiscal services on a contract basis. 

Reading is Fundamental, Inc. (rif), associated with the Institu- 
tion since 1968, is an independent, separately incorporated entity 
dedicated to the improvement of reading abilities in children. 
Primary support is derived from private contributions and a federal 
contract with the Department of Education to operate the federal 
Inexpensive Book Distribution Program. Administrative services 
are provided by the Institution on a contract basis. 

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the 
National Gallery of Art, and the John F. Kennedy Center for the 
Performing Arts were established by Congress within the Institu- 
tion but are administered by separate boards of trustees. Inde- 
pendent financial reports are prepared by each of these organiza- 
tions. Office space and fiscal and other administrative and support 
services are provided the Woodrow Wilson International Center 
for Scholars on a reimbursement basis. 

The Friends of the National Zoo (fonz) is an independent, non- 
profit corporation working closely with the National Zoological 



56 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Park. It operates under contract a number of beneficial concessions 
for the National Zoo. fonz provided concession and rental fees 
to the Zoo amounting to more than $147,000 during calendar year 
1979 (fonz's fiscal year). In addition, fonz contributed other im- 
portant financial and volunteer support for Zoo programs. Financial 
affairs of this organization are disclosed separately elsewhere in 
Smithsonian Year 1980. 



Accounting and Auditing 

The nonappropriated trust funds of the Institution are audited 
annually by an independent public accounting firm; the report of 
Coopers & Lybrand is contained in the following pages. Additional 
reviews are conducted annually on a number of Smithsonian activ- 
ities by the internal audit staff. Additionally, the Defense Contract 
Audit Agency conducts an annual audit of grants and contracts re- 
ceived from federal agencies, as well as general and administrative 
costs. 

The Audit and Review Committee of the Regents held several 
meetings during the year pursuant to their responsibility, under the 
bylaws of the Institution, for reviewing the Smithsonian's account- 
ing systems and internal financial controls; for facilitating com- 
munication between the Board of Regents and auditors from the 
internal audit staff, the independent accounting firm, and the Gen- 
eral Accounting Office; and for reviewing operations of the Insti- 
tution for compliance with approved programs and policies. 



Financial Report I 57 






Distinctive museum shop displays have won design awards and keep business at a 
brisk pace year round. Carrying out the theme of the Centennial in the Arts and 
Industries Building, the Smith & Sun Photographic Gallery in the 1876 Museum Shop 
produces authentic tintypes and supplies period costumes. Below. The Craft Shop in 
the National Museum of History and Technology features handmade crafts from 
across the United States. Articles on sale are similar to those on display in the 
museum, this being the marketing rationale. 




t0mK 



T- 



til 



I i AMERICAN 
I CRAFTS 

gmgpue 



J i , 



«£ 



«J ■ill"" gl -: 


!Br ™ 




COOPERS & LYBRAND 

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS 



IN PRINCIPAL AREAS 
OF THE WORLD 



To the Board of Regents 
Smithsonian Institution 

We have examined the balance sheet of the Trust Funds of Smith- 
sonian Institution as of September 30, 1980 and the related state- 
ment of financial activity for the year then ended. Our examination 
was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards 
and, accordingly, included such tests of the accounting records and 
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the 
circumstances. We previously examined and reported upon the 
statements of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution for the 
year ended September 30, 1979, totals of which are included in the 
accompanying financial statements for comparative purposes only. 

The statements of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution 
do not include the accounts of the National Gallery of Art, the 
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, or other de- 
partments, bureaus and programs administered by the Smithsonian 
Institution under federal appropriations as detailed in Note 2 to 
the financial statements. 

In our opinion, the financial statements for the year ended 
September 30, 1980, referred to above, present fairly the financial 
position of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution as of Sep- 
tember 30, 1980, and the results of operations and changes in fund 
balances for the year then ended, in conformity with generally ac- 
cepted accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with that 
of the preceding year. 

COOPERS & LYBRAND 

1800 M Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
November 28, 1980 



59 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION— TRUST FUNDS 
Balance Sheet 

September 30, 1980 
(with comparative totals for September 30, 1979) 



Current 
funds 



ASSETS : 

Cash $ 39,958 

Investments (Notes 3 and 5) 21,785,307 

Receivables (Note 4) 11,051,484 

Interfund receivables — 

Merchandise inventory (Note 1) 6,244,380 

Prepaid and deferred expense (Note 1) 7,294,999 

Property and equipment (Notes 1 and 6) 1,469,019 

$47,885,147 

LIABILITIES: 

Accounts payable and accrued expenses $ 5,759,026 

Deposits held in custody for other organizations (Note 2) . . 1,218,910 

Interfund payables 4,272,661 

Deferred revenue (Note 1) 17,063,378 

Total liabilities 28,313,975 

FUND BALANCES (Note 1) : 
Current: 

Unrestricted general purpose 5,000,736 

Special purpose 9,895,106 

Restricted 4,675,330 

Endowment and similar funds (Note 5) — 

Plant funds (Note 6) — 

Total fund balances 19,571,172 

$47,885,147 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 



60 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Endowment 

and similar 

funds 



Plant funds 



Total, all funds 



Totals, 1979 



$ 41,164 

63,907,957 

38,138 

435,053 



$64,422,312 



$ — 

3,837,608 

12,543,726 
$16,381,334 



$ 81,122 

85,693,264 

11,089,622 

4,272,661 

6,244,380 

7,294,999 

14,012,745 

$128,688,793 



$ 1,129,402 
79,127,984 
9,873,408 
4,308,574 
4,505,523 
6,414,963 
13,203,767 

$118,563,621 



$ 209,846 



209,846 



5,968,872 

1,218,910 

4,272,661 

17,063,378 

28,523,821 



5,656,838 

1,745,609 

4,308,574 

13,247,924 

24,958,945 



64,422,312 



64,422,312 
$64,422,312 



16,171,488 

16,171,488 

$16,381,334 



5,000,736 

9,895,106 

4,675,330 

64,422,312 

16,171,488 

100,164,972 

$128,688,793 



4,964,511 
11,567,125 

4,900,178 
58,479,808 
13,693,054 

93,604,676 

$118,563,621 



Financial Report I 61 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION— TRUST FUNDS 

Statement of Financial Activity 

Year ended September 30, 1980 

(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1979) 



Current funds 



Unrestricted 



Total 

current 

funds 



Total 

unrestricted 

funds 



General 
purpose 



REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS: 

Auxiliary activities revenue $74,251,010 $74,251,010 $ — 

Federal grants and contracts 12,946,943 — — 

Investment income (net of $283,955 for management 

and custodian fees) 6,348,438 3,282,808 2,822,779 

Net gain on sale of securities 252 252 252 

Gifts, bequests and foundation grants 3,226,682 969,453 14,005 

Additions to plant fund — — — 

Rentals, fees, commissions and other 2,225,672 1,492,995 778,958 

Total revenue and other additions 98,998,997 79,996,518 3,615,994 

EXPENDITURES AND OTHER DEDUCTIONS: 

Research and educational expenditures 24,472,580 9,709,811 2,457,778 

Administrative expenditures 8,077,438 5,103,286 2,140,313 

Auxiliary activities expenditures 63,079,852 63,079,852 — 

Expenditures for acquisition of plant — — — 

Retirement of indebtedness — — — 

Interest on indebtedness — — — 



Excess of revenue and other additions over 
(under) expenditures and other deductions. . 

TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS- 
ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS) : 

Mandatory principal and interest on notes 

Portion of investment yield appropriated (Note 5) . . 
Purchase of property and equipment for plant fund 

Future plant acquisitions 

Income added to endowment principal 

Appropriated as quasi endowment 

For designated purposes 

Net increase in auxiliary activities 

Total transfers among funds 

Net increase (decrease) for the year 

Fund balances at beginning of year 

Fund balances at end of year 



95,629,870 


77,892,949 


4,598,091 


3,369,127 


2,103,569 


(982,097) 


(61,371) 


(61,371) 


(38,992) 


(1,099,438) 


(383,021) 


(353,033) 


(530,698) 


(530,698) 


(530,698) 


(710,060) 


(710,060) 


(671,802) 


(107,474) 


— 


— 


(2,680,728) 


(2,030,728) 


(2,021,053) 


(40,000) 


(23,485) 


(3,966,025) 


— 


— 


8,599,925 


(5,229,769) 


(3,739,363) 


1,018,322 


(1,860,642) 


(1,635,794) 


36,225 


21,431,814 


16,531,636 


4,964,511 


$19,571,172 


$14,895,842 


$ 5,000,736 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 



62 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Endowment 
Auxiliary Special and similar Total, Totals, 

activities purpose Restricted funds Plant funds all funds 1979 



$72,202,047 $ 2,048,963 $ — $ — $ — $ 74,251,010 $66,884,616 



898,835 


460,029 

56,613 

714,037 
3,279,642 

7,252,033 

369,503 

1,553,069 


12,946,943 

3,065,630 

2,257,229 

732,677 
19,002,479 

14,762,769 
2,974,152 


1,998,957 

55,907 


58,964 

1,096,507 
665,896 


12,946,943 

6,407,402 
1,999,209 
4,379,096 
665,896 
2,225,672 

102,875,228 

24,472,580 

8,077,438 

63,079,852 

623,691 

42,205 

19,166 

96,314,932 
6,560,296 


11,411,790 

5,598,435 
506,101 

2,554,149 
395,971 

1,983,617 


73,100,882 

2,593,470 
61,526,783 


2,054,864 


1,821,367 

623,691 
42,205 
19,166 

685,062 
1,136,305 

61,371 

530,698 
710,060 

40,000 


89,334,679 

18,375,482 

6,842,542 

55,015,797 

348,921 

47,049 

9,021 


64,120,253 


9,174,605 
(5,894,963) 

(22,379) 
(29,988) 

(38,258) 

(9,675) 
4,323,244 


17,736,921 
1,265,558 

(716,417) 

(107,474) 

(650,000) 

(16,515) 


— 


80,638,812 


8,980,629 

(380,704) 
(8,599,925) 


2,054,864 

1,099,438 

107,474 
2,680,728 


8,695,867 


(8,980,629) 


4,222,944 

(1,672,019) 
11,567,125 

$ 9,895,106 


(1,490,406) 

(224,848) 
4,900,178 

$ 4,675,330 


3,887,640 

5,942,504 
58,479,808 

$64,422,312 


1,342,129 

2,478,434 
13,693,054 

$16,171,488 


— 


— 


— 


6,560,296 
93,604,676 

$100,164,972 


8,695,867 
84,908,809 


$ — 


$93,604,676 









financial Report I 63 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION— TRUST FUNDS 
Notes to Financial Statements 



1. Summary of significant accounting policies 

Basis of presentation. The financial statements of Smithsonian Institution — 
Trust Funds (Institution) have been prepared on the accrual basis. 

Fund accounting. To ensure observance of limitations and restrictions placed 
on the use of resources available to the Institution, the accounts of the Insti- 
tution are maintained in accordance with the principles of fund accounting. 
This is the procedure by which resources for various purposes are classified for 
accounting and reporting purposes into funds established according to their 
nature and purposes. Separate accounts are maintained for each fund; how- 
ever, in the accompanying financial statements, funds that have similar char- 
acteristics have been combined into fund groups. Accordingly, all financial 
transactions have been recorded and reported by fund group. 

The assets, liabilities and fund balances of the Institution are reported in self- 
balancing fund groups as follows: 

Current funds, which include unrestricted and restricted resources, repre- 
sent the portion of expendable funds that is available for support of In- 
stitution operations. Separate subfund groups of current unrestricted 
funds have been reflected in the financial statements for auxiliary activi- 
ties (representing primarily the revenue and expenditures of the Smith- 
sonian Associates Program, including the Smithsonian Magazine, and 
museum shop sales) and for special purposes (representing internally 
segregated funds for certain designated purposes). Amounts restricted by 
the donor for specific purposes are also segregated from other current 
funds. 

Endowment and similar funds include funds that are subject to restrictions 
of gift instruments requiring in perpetuity that the principal be invested 
and the income only be used. Also classified as endowment and similar 
funds are gifts which will allow the expenditure of principal but only 
under certain specified conditions and quasi-endowment funds. Quasi- 
endowment funds are funds established by the governing board for the 
same purposes as endowment funds; however, any portion of such funds 
may be expended. Restricted quasi-endowment funds represent gifts for 
restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the principal be 
maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the governing board 
has elected to invest the principal and expend only the income for the 
purpose stipulated by the donor. 

Plant funds represent resources restricted for future plant acquisitions 
and funds expended for plant. 

All gains and losses arising from the sale, collection or other disposition of 
investments are accounted for in the fund in which the related assets are 
recorded. Income from investments is accounted for in a similar manner, 
except for income derived from investments of endowment and similar funds, 
which is accounted for in the fund to which it is restricted or, if unrestricted, 
as revenue in unrestricted current funds. 



64 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Inventories. Inventories are carried at the lower of average cost, computed 
on a first-in, first-out method, or net realizable value. 

Deferred revenue and expense. Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian 
Magazine is recorded as income over the period of the related subscription, 
which is one year. Costs related to obtaining subscriptions to Smithsonian 
Magazine are charged to income over the period of the subscription. 

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses of other auxiliary 
activities during the period in which the activity is conducted. 

Works of art, living or other specimens. In accordance with the practice gen- 
erally followed by museums, works of art and living or other specimens are 
not reflected in the accompanying financial statements. 

Property and equipment. Capitalized improvements and equipment purchased 
with Trust Funds and utilized in income-producing activities are capitalized 
in the current unrestricted fund at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line 
basis over their estimated useful lives of three to ten years. 

Real estate (land and buildings) are recorded in the plant fund at cost, to 
the extent that restricted or unrestricted funds were expended therefor, or 
appraised value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in Chesa- 
peake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion, which have been recorded at nominal 
values. In accordance with the practice of many museums, depreciation on 
buildings is not recorded. 

All other land, buildings, fixtures and equipment which were principally 
acquired with federal funds are not reflected in the accompanying financial 
statements. 

Government contracts. The Institution has a number of contracts with the 
U.S. Government, which primarily provide for cost reimbursement to the 
Institution. Contract revenue is recognized when billable or received. 

Contributed services. A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made 
significant contributions of their time in the furtherance of the Institution's 
programs. The value of this contributed time is not reflected in these state- 
ments since it is not susceptible to objective measurement or valuation. 

2. Related activities 

The Trust Funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of funds obtained from 
private sources, from federal grants and contracts, and from certain business 
activities related to the operations of the Institution. 

Federal appropriations, which are not reflected in the accompanying financial 
statements, provide major support for the operations and administration of 
the educational and research programs of the Institution's many museums, 
art galleries and other bureaus, as well as for the maintenance and construc- 
tion of related buildings and facilities. In addition, land, buildings and other 
assets acquired with federal funds are not reflected in the accompanying finan- 
cial statements. 

The following federal appropriations were received by the Institution for the 
fiscal years ended September 30, 1980 and 1979: 



Financial Report I 65 



1980 1979 

Operating funds $107,764,000 $100,265,000 

Special foreign currency program 4,200,000 3,700,000 

Construction funds 32,100,000 6,575,000 

$144,064,000 $110,540,000 

The Institution provides fiscal and administrative services to several sepa- 
rately incorporated organizations in which certain officials of the Institution 
serve on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these 
organizations for the aforementioned services, together with rent for Institu- 
tion facilities occupied, etc., totaled approximately $370,000 for the year ended 
September 30, 1980. The following summarizes the approximate expenditures 
of these organizations for the fiscal years ended September 30, 1980 and 
1979, respectively, as reflected in their individual financial statements and 
which are not included in the accompanying financial statements of the 

Institution: 

1980 1979 

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange $3,310,000 $3,293,000 

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc $7,721,000 $4,042,000 

Woodrow Wilson International Center 

for Scholars — Trust Funds $2,583,000 $2,306,000 

The Institution is continuing to work with the U.S. Department of Commerce 
to effect a transfer of the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange opera- 
tions to the U.S. Department of Commerce. Pending completion of this trans- 
fer, the Institution will continue to provide fiscal and administrative services. 

3. Investments 

Investments are recorded at cost, if purchased, or at fair market value at date 
of acquisition, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1980, investments are 
composed of the following: 



Current funds: 

Certificates of deposit 

Commercial paper 

Overnight money market account 
U.S. Government and 

quasi-government obligations . . 

Common stock 

Preferred stock 



Carrying 
value 


Market 
value 


$ 4,219,219 
4,551,390 
2,175,000 

10,614,071 

169,280 

56,347 


$ 4,219,219 
4,500,000 
2,175,000 

10,304,780 
97,346 
39,948 



21,785,307 21,336,293 
Endowment and similar funds: 

Loan to U.S. Treasury $ 1,000,000 $ 1,000,000 

Commercial paper 850,000 850,000 

U.S. Government and 

quasi-government obligations 9,508,399 9,385,439 

Corporate bonds 3,112,793 4,274,931 

Common stock 48,715,240 61,606,964 

Preferred stock 721,525 758,250 

63,907,957 77,875,584 



$85,693,264 $99,211,877 



66 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Substantially all of the investments of the endowment and similar funds are 
pooled on a market value basis (consolidated fund) with each individual fund 
subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the value per unit at mar- 
ket value at the beginning of the month within which the transaction takes 
place. Of the total units, each having a market value of $136.08, 350,359 units 
were owned by endowment and 217,896 units were owned by quasi endowment 
at September 30, 1980. 

The following tabulation summarizes changes in relationships between cost 
and market values of the pooled investments: 

Market 
value 
per 
Market Cost Net gains unit 

End of year $77,329,906 $63,371,084 $13,958,822 $136.08 

Beginning of year $65,555,748 $57,426,159 8,129,589 119.91 

Unrealized net gains for year 5,829,233 — 

Realized net gains for year 1,998,957 — 

Total net gains for year $ 7,828,190 $ 16.17 

4. Receivables 

Receivables at September 30, 1980 and 1979, included the following: 
Current funds 1980 1979 

Accounts receivable, auxiliary activities; net of 

allowance for doubtful accounts of $251,000 

in 1980 and $258,000 in 1979 $ 8,728,065 $7,881,683 

Unbilled costs and fees from grants 

and contracts 989,722 658,318 

Interest and dividends receivable 945,455 949,571 

Other 388,242 343,528 

11,051,484 9,833,100 

Endowment and similar funds 

Notes receivable 38,138 40,308 

Total, all funds $11,089,622 $9,873,408 

5. Endowment and similar funds 

Endowment and similar funds at September 30, 1980, are summarized as 
follows : 

Endowment funds, income available for: 

Restricted purposes $35,918,089 

Unrestricted purposes 2,472,281 

38,390,370 

Quasi-endowment funds, principal and income available for: 

Restricted purposes 3,592,314 

Unrestricted purposes 22,439,628 

26,031,942 
Total endowment and similar funds $64,422,312 



Financial Report I 67 



The Institution utilizes the "total return" approach to investment management 
of endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Under this approach, the 
total investment return is considered to include realized and unrealized gains 
and losses in addition to interest and dividends. An amount equal to the dif- 
ference between interest and dividends earned during the year and the amount 
computed under the total return formula is transferred to or from the current 
funds. 

In applying this approach, it is the Institution's policy to provide, as being 
available for current expenditures, an amount taking into consideration such 
factors as, but not limited to: (1) 4 x /2% of the five-year average of the market 
value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during this period), (2) 
current dividend and interest yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and scien- 
tists, and (4) inflationary factors as measured by the Consumer Price Index; 
however, where the market value of the assets of any endowment fund is less 
than 110% of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of donation), 
the amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends received. The 
total return factor for 1980 was $5.00 per unit of fund participation. The total 
return applied for 1980 was $2,745,992. 



6. Property and equipment 

Property and equipment is comprised of the following: 

September 30, 

Current funds 1980 1979 

Capital improvements $ 1,669,476 $ 1,342,277 

Equipment 787,862 602,777 

Leasehold improvements 145,229 145,229 

Less accumulated depreciation 

and amortization 1,133,548 806,551 

1,469,019 1,283,732 

Plant funds 

Land and buildings 12,543,726 11,920,035 

Total, all funds $14,012,745 $13,203,767 

Depreciation and amortization expense reflected in expenditures of the cur- 
rent funds for 1980 and 1979 was $326,997 and $221,202, respectively. 

The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1980 includes $3,810,063 of 
unexpended plant funds. 

7. Pension plan 

The Institution has a retirement plan in which substantially all Trust Funds' 
employees are eligible to participate. Under the plan, both the Institution and 
the employees contribute stipulated percentages of salary which are used to 
purchase individual annuities, the rights to which are immediately vested with 
the employees. The cost of the plan for the year ended September 30, 1980 
was $2,072,520. It is the policy of the Institution to fund plan costs accrued 
currently. There are no unfunded prior service costs under the plan. 



68 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



8. Income taxes 

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of Sec- 
tion 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Organizations described in that 
section are taxable only on their unrelated business income. The Internal 
Revenue Service is presently considering a request for technical advice per- 
taining to whether income derived from several of the Institution's activities 
is subject to tax as unrelated business income. If the Institution's position is 
upheld, no tax would be imposed on this income. 

It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt from taxation as an 
instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section 501(c)(1) of the 
Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all income 
taxation. The Institution has not yet sought such dual status. 

Management believes that any income taxes required as a result of settlement 
of these matters would not have a material effect upon the financial position 
of the Institution. 



Financial Report I 69 




Scrutinizing fossil remains of Callixylon, one of the world's earliest trees, exhibit 
staffers check construction progress on The Conquest of Land in the National Mu- 
seum of Natural History's new paleontology hall. This ancient tree was mistaken for 
a petrified snake when it was first dug up in Oklahoma at the turn of the century. 



Smithsonian Year • 1980 
SCIENCE 



DAVID CHALLINOR, 
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR SCIENCE 



Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies 

A major goal of the research conducted at the Chesapeake Bay 
Center for Environmental Studies (cbces) is to develop a compre- 
hensive picture of the dynamics of an estuarine watershed system, 
including detailed documentation of the ways in which changes in 
human and natural use of the land affect plant and animal life in 
receiving waters. Long-term and comparative studies of the Rhode 
River estuary and its air- and watershed on the Chesapeake Bay are 
producing a number of significant findings. 

AIRSHED AND WATERSHED STUDIES 

Several aspects of the chemistry of precipitation have been inten- 
sively studied since 1973 in order to measure the effects of atmos- 
pheric changes on the ecosystem. Trend analyses of the acidity of 
precipitation during the spring and summer seasons show a one- 
hundred-fold increase between 1974 and 1979 to a pH of 3.8. This 
increase, due to nitrogen and sulfur oxides in the atmosphere which 
form acids when dissolved in rainwater, is beginning to produce 
significant effects on the Rhode River ecosystem. Since 1979, the 
average acidity of the winter and spring stream waters which drain 
the watershed has increased eight fold to a pH of 5.5. Studies con- 
ducted elsewhere show that at acidity levels of pH 6.5 the egg mass 
and juveniles of many freshwater fish and amphibians begin to be 
adversely affected. Coupled with this effect is the fact that the more 



71 



acid waters will leach out higher concentrations of toxic metals from 
soils, thereby possibly causing indirect effects on the biota. 

Studies of the herbicides in precipitation suggest that atrazine 
may travel long distances and maintain residence in the atmos- 
phere for an extended period of time. While atrazine has been 
found on a regular basis in samples of Rhode River precipitation 
during summer months, an unexpected finding has been the detec- 
tion of generally higher concentrations of atrazine in rainwater col- 
lected from the same site during winter, long after the herbicide 
had been applied to local crops. A total of sixty-eight rainwater sam- 
ples were analyzed. A particularly sensitive instrument (a gas chro- 
matograph equipped with a nitrogen-specific electrolytic detector) 
was used to detect the presence of atrazine in the samples. Atrazine 
residues, ranging in concentration from 6 to 190 parts per trillion, 
were found in the estuarine water samples. The rainwater samples 
were made up of particles of atrazine (lost to the air during spray- 
ing operations) settled out of the air by gravity, and vapors and 
particles washed out of the air by rainfall. The atrazine concen- 
trations of these samples ranged from 3 to 2,190 parts per trillion, 
the highest concentrations being detected in an 0.3 inch rainfall 
collected during the month when atrazine is regularly sprayed in 
local fields. 

A possible explanation appears to be that once atrazine is re- 
leased into the atmosphere, it can remain there for long periods of 
time and/or may be carried long distances. Factors such as lower 
air temperature during winter months and the type of rain preva- 
lent during that season may then contribute to the presence of 
higher atrazine residue concentrations in winter rainfall. 

TERRESTRIAL STUDIES AND LAND USE 

Part of the Environmental Research Program at cbces concerns the 
biological effects of past and present land-use patterns. James 
Lynch and Dennis Whigham are in the final phase of a three-year 
study of the impact of forest fragmentation and isolation on bird 
and plant communities. Regional in scope, this research has in- 
volved the sampling of more than three hundred forest tracts in 
six Maryland counties. Results to date indicate that while most 
herbs, shrubs, and trees are resistant to the effects of isolation and 
reduction of total habitat area, this is not true for certain groups of 



72 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



birds. Species that winter in the tropics are particularly sensitive to 
habitat fragmentation. Most warblers, vireos, flycatchers, tanagers, 
thrushes, and other highly migratory birds occur less frequently 
and at lower densities in smaller or more isolated tracts than in 
otherwise similar but larger or more contiguous forests. As an 
example, the mean density of the red-eyed vireo (Vireo olivaceus) 
is 50 percent higher in extensive tracts of forest (more than 100 
hectares, or 250 acres) than in small woodlots (5—10 hectares, or 
10—25 acres). In contrast, most resident or weakly migratory 
species (e.g., cardinal, rufous-sided towhee) are equally abundant 
in forest tracts of all sizes. The sensitivity of highly migratory 
species to habitat area and isolation may be an important factor in 
their observed decline in parks and preserves in the increasingly 
suburbanized eastern United States. 

Other terrestrial studies at cbces are documenting the effects of 
natural and human-induced disturbance on individual species. In 
his study of temporal shifts in the composition of ant communities, 
James Lynch has compared community patterns at sites represent- 
ing a continuum of disturbance ranging from croplands and 
pastures, through abandoned fields of various ages, to young and 
mature hardwood forests. So far, fifty-nine ant species have been 
identified, approximately twenty of which have been studied in 
some detail. These studies have revealed that actively disturbed 
habitats and those recovering from human disturbance support an 
ant community that shares few species with forest communities. 
Species in old fields and other disturbed habitats tend to be more 
aggressive and more diurnal in their activity than species associated 
with undisturbed habitats. Within a given local community, the 
common ant species tend to differ from each other in body size, 
habitat, microhabitat, food preference, or in some combination of 
these factors. As a result, coexisting species usually exploit sub- 
stantially different spatial, temporal, or material resources. Recent 
studies in this long-term project have documented some of the in- 
tense behavioral interactions that characterize competition in ants. 
By comparing ant activity at food sources where all species have 
been allowed access, and at food from which aggressive species 
have been excluded, Lynch has shown that the rate of food intake 
by subordinate ant species is severely reduced by the presence of 
more pugnacious forms, particularly at night. 



Science / 73 



A number of long-term studies are being directed towards deter- 
mining the structure and functional parameters of mature and suc- 
cessional forests. It has been suggested that gaps in the forest 
canopy created by fallen trees may be the most important physical 
change that occurs in forest ecosystems and that the growth and 
spread of many species may be controlled by the size and number 
of gaps that are produced. Whigham, Daniel Higman, and Robert 
Tabisz are analyzing the responses of plants to gaps occurring in 
one of the older forests at the cbces site. During the first year, 
densities of many wooded species increased dramatically in the 
study plots, but the distribution varied. The greatest increase in 
first-year seedlings occurred around the bases of the fallen trees. 

ESTUARINE RESEARCH 

The ecological stress caused by the entry of toxic organic sub- 
stances into the Chesapeake has been monitored in various regions 
of the bay. In the heavily agricultural areas of the Rhode River 
watershed, Tung Lin Wu has been studying atrazine, a commonly 
used herbicide for weed control in corn. He is looking for a possible 
link between herbicide use and the disappearance of submerged 
aquatic vegetation in the bay. The project began in 1976 with a 
study of the temporal distribution of atrazine in Rhode River, the 
Choptank River, and the vicinity of the Poplar Islands in the open 
bay. During 1977 and 1978, atrazine was detected in the water of 
the Rhode River throughout the entire sampling of June through 
December. The maximum concentration of 3.3 parts per billion was 
detected in the summer of 1977 in a surface film sample collected 
within a heavy slick. Atrazine decreased in the Rhode River the 
following year, both in surface and bulk water. Concentrations in 
the bulk water varied from 0.003 to 0.19 parts per billion with a 
mean value of 0.04 parts per billion. Atrazine concentration in the 
surface water samples was generally in the range of 0.01 to 0.59 
parts per billion with a mean value of 0.13 parts per billion. 

Laboratory bioassays of atrazine toxicity to such submerged 
vascular plants as wild celery have shown severe adverse effects at 
very low concentrations. Investigations are now being made on the 
effects of atrazine on microorganisms that inhabit the surface film 
of the air/water interface. 

Dennis Whigham, assisted by Margaret McWethy and John 



74 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



O'Neill, is studying the ecological impact of extensive ditching on 
the dynamics of wetland plant communities. The focus of the 
research project is Maryland's Eastern Shore, where ditches are 
being dug along large stretches of wetlands for purposes of mos- 
quito control. While major shifts have occurred in species composi- 
tion in the ditched areas, the wetland environment appears to be 
resilient. An increase in primary production has been noted 
adjacent to ditches. Ecosystem processes such as composition and 
nutrient exchange are also being investigated. There have been 
significant increases in the concentrations and total amounts of 
nitrogen and phosphorus in the vegetation adjacent to the ditched 
areas. While no major changes in water quality have occurred as a 
result of the ditching processes, studies of tidal exchange are being 
conducted to determine if there is a net export of nitrogen and 
phosphorus from the ditched wetlands. 

Estuaries are extremely turbid habitats, containing soil particles, 
detritus, dissolved organic matter, and plankton. As a result, only 
low levels of sunlight are able to penetrate estuarine waters, a fact 
which limits the productivity of estuarine plant life. Absolute levels 
of light penetration in any given spectral band have been found to 
change dramatically with these changing conditions. Intensive 
studies of the penetration of different spectral bands of sunlight 
into the waters of the Rhode River have shown shifts in their 
maximum sunlight penetration from blue-green to yellow to red 
depending upon the conditions in the water column. The solar 
penetration study underway has three major goals: first, to measure 
the intensities and spectral distribution of downwelling sunlight dur- 
ing different times of the year at varying depths and locations in the 
estuary; second, to attempt to measure the primary factors respon- 
sible for attenuation of each spectral band under various condi- 
tions; and third, to study the response of estuarine plants, e.g., 
pigmentation shifts or changes in the composition of species. The 
research is part of a three-year collaborative effort of three Smith- 
sonian bureaus — David Correll and Maria Faust of cbces, William 
Klein and Bernard Goldberg of rbl, and Jack Pierce of mnh. 

Maria Faust's focus in the study is to make a comprehensive in- 
vestigation of the relationships between the photosynthetic re- 
sponses of unicellular attached and rooted aquatic plants. She is 
concerned with the ways in which sunlight interacts with algal and 



Science I 75 



bacterial populations in the water column. In order to determine 
the range of irradiance and color light at which specific micro- 
organisms are able to maintain positive growth, Prorocentrum 
mariae-leboriae, an endemic dinoflagellate species of phytoplank- 
ton which forms massive algal blooms under natural conditions, 
was examined in the laboratory. The organism was grown under 
blue, green, red, and white light at three levels of irradiance. Also 
examined were the adaptive mechanisms of the organism, and its 
spectral response capability. This work suggests the P. mariae- 
leboriae is a low-light organism. Its abundance in estuarine water, 
therefore, is most likely due to an ability to use both low irradi- 
ances and a range of colored light more effectively than white light. 
This indicates that colored light (estuarine irradiance) plays an im- 
portant ecological role in regulating the organism's growth. 
Another finding was that metabolic processes of P. mariae-leboriae 
display faster cell division in blue light and greater pigment (peri- 
dinin) synthesis in green light in response to the color of the 
incident light. This is known as photoadaptation. This is the first 
incidence of chromatic adaptation detected in the peridinin/ 
chlorophyll of a dinoflagellate. Since P. mariae-leboriae in cultures 
of green light produces more peridinin pigment and higher cell 
numbers than in white light, light quality may have important bio- 
logical effects in natural populations. 

In the last year, the addition to the research staff of Anson 
Hines, an estuarine ecologist, has enabled cbces to undertake de- 
tailed investigations of the dynamics of specific organisms in 
Rhode River estuary. Hines has initiated studies on spatial and 
temporal changes in the benthic (bottom dwelling) invertebrate 
communities of the estuary. He has found that approximately 
thirty species of worms, clams, and crustaceans constitute most of 
the community within the sediments of the estuary community. A 
considerably higher density and diversity was identified in sand 
in comparison with muddy sediments. A slight increase in diversity 
was noted towards the mouth of the river. Hines's analyses show 
that diversity and densities rose in the spring during the recruit- 
ment period of most species, and declined sharply during the 
summer, as predatory blue crabs and fish became active in the 
estuary. The placement of experimental predator exclusion cages in 
the estuary, to prevent large crabs and fish from feeding on bottom 



76 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



invertebrates, resulted in an initial increase in densities of animals 
within the sediments. At the same time, however, two small 
predators — mud crabs and worms of the polychete class (nereid 
family) — also increased markedly in the cages, and apparently 
limited the abundance of many other species. Hines's analysis of the 
population dynamics of four species of estuarine clams in the 
Rhode River indicate that three of the species maintained success- 
ful settlements in the estuary, while the fourth demonstrated poor 
recruitment and low densities. 

Hines's study of patterns of reproductive output in a wide variety 
of commercial and noncommercial species of crabs from the west 
and east coasts of North America showed proportionally similar 
weights between egg mass and the female crabs in all species. 
However, egg size and fecundity parameters that do not correlate 
with the habitat or taxonomic relationships of the species were 
highly variable between species. 

In a survey conducted by Hines and Joseph Miklas of the abun- 
dance and distribution of near-shore fish throughout the estuary, 
menhaden, young spot, mummichog, and silverside minnows were 
found in greatest numbers. Another finding was that chain pickerel 
produced a strong year-class, and young-of-the-year were widely 
distributed throughout the estuary. 

EDUCATION 

Another goal of cbces is the development of an understanding of 
the relationships between people and their environment. Part of 
this research program is concerned with environmental influences 
on human behavior and ways in which human preferences for vari- 
ous landscapes are formed. John Balling and John Falk have been 
exploring the effects that man's evolutionary history may have on 
these preferences. Underlying much of their work is the hypothesis 
that human evolution, in large part, took place along or near river 
courses in the East African savanna. Preferences for natural set- 
tings with scattered trees, short grass, and some type of water 
body may, therefore, reflect an innate preference for the environ- 
ment in which much of our biological (and psychological) appara- 
tus evolved. 

A two-part theory of the development of environmental pref- 
erences was tested in a series of studies in which participants 



Science / 77 




A mother and her young sons (the LeitI family) share nature's preparation for winter 
in a living laboratory, the autumn forest. As part of the Parent and Preschooler 
Ecology Series offered by the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, 
families with young children explore the woods, discover ecological concepts, and 
play environmental games. This "hands on" program was developed by Ann Coren, 
cbces early childhood science specialist. 



"rated" photographic slides of different natural environments — 
tropical rain forest, temperate deciduous forest, coniferous forest, 
savanna, and desert. First, it was proposed that there is innate pre- 
disposition towards savannalike settings that expresses itself most 
clearly in childhood. Recently completed research by Balling and 
Falk has shown that children as young as three to five years of 
age show a strong preference for savanna environments. Earlier 
data revealed that the preference for savanna persists throughout 
the elementary school years. Second, with increasing age and ex- 
perience, familiarity with environment comes into play. Preference 
for savanna can be seen to decline while preference for those en- 
vironments with which people are most familiar rises. Participants 
in studies completed to date have been most familiar with 
deciduous and coniferous forests. Thus, the ratings of those from 
the ages of mid-adolescence through adulthood indicate an equal 
preference for those forested settings and savanna. 

This year, research on landscape preference was extended 
through use of an experimental overlay procedure, developed by 
Falk and Balling. This device allows individuals to "construct" the 
landscape that he or she most prefers by selecting, in turn, a pre- 
ferred background and a preferred foreground. The results of 
studies using this apparatus tend to confirm earlier investigations. 
Over-all, participants selected foreground scenes containing low, 
even ground cover; and a few, scattered trees. Preferred back- 
grounds tended to be hilly, with tree density somewhat higher than 
that of the foreground. Almost all subjects who added additional 
elements drew in water of some type (e.g., streams, lakes). In 
general, the highly preferred scenes could be described as "park- 
land" adjacent to or surrounding some body of water. The natural 
environment that most closely approximates such scenes is the 
savanna. Thus, results from studies using techniques with very 
different types of experimental biases — judgments of slides and 
the overlay — have tended to support the hypothesis that there is 
some innate component to landscape preference. 

The center is also concerned with the development of edu- 
cational materials for out-of-school or informal audiences. In fiscal 
year 1979, a series of estuarine ecology materials entitled sea 
(Smithsonian Estuarine Activities) were produced; these were 
targeted for young adolescents in informal settings such as nature 



Science I 79 



centers. Starting this year, cbces began work on two other ma- 
terials development projects aimed at different informal audiences 
— families, and parents and preschoolers. 

A goal of the center is to develop ways to help today's parents 
function effectively in their role as educators of their children. 
While a child may spend some twenty-five hours per week in- 
volved in classroom learning, the majority of the child's waking 
hours are spent away from the school grounds. Parents, then, have 
a substantial opportunity to explore with their children the world 
around them, to teach them how to make decisions, and to help 
them make the connections between what they learn in the class- 
room and what happens in their everyday world. The rapid scien- 
tific and technological change of today's world often severely 
limits this opportunity, however, leaving an ever-widening gap 
between what most parents can impart to their children and the 
science in actual use around them. 

The Smithsonian Family Learning Project (sflp) is an effort to 
strengthen the family as a significant teaching-learning unit. Under 
the direction of John Falk, staff members Jamie Harms, Sharon 
Maves, and Laurie Greenberg are developing a series of learning 
activities — for families to do together at home — which focus on the 
home environment as a functioning ecosystem. To date, activity 
packets have been developed and tested in three areas: home 
energy use; houseplants; and lawns. Included in each packet are 
games, experiments, and explanatory projects that provide the 
tools for families to discover the dynamics of these systems in 
their home environment. In one of the activities, families learn 
about solar energy by constructing a solar greenhouse. In another, 
families explore the critical variables of heat, light, water, and other 
environmental requirements in the growth and productivity of 
individual houseplants. 

A complementary project to sflp is the Parent and Preschooler 
Ecology Series. In a preliminary stage of development, the series is 
being designed by Ann Coren to help families and their young 
children work in partnership to learn basic ecological principles. 
Materials are being developed that will enable parents to capitalize 
on the preschool child's natural curiosity. As in sflp, an essential 
element of the process of testing the materials is a pilot workshop 
format wherein small groups of parents and children work as a 



80 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



family team using "hands on" exploratory activities as a frame- 
work for discovery. Two outcomes have been identified in sessions 
conducted to date: children learn ecological concepts through ex- 
ploration and manipulation of the environment; and the experi- 
ence of shared discovery reinforces the teaching/learning process 
for both parents and children. These results suggest that family- 
based activities such as the Parent and Preschooler Ecology Series 
and sflp can initiate a lifelong pattern of family learning. 

INFORMATION TRANSFER 

Information Transfer is the component of the Education Program 
which seeks to determine ways to increase the understanding and 
use of scientific information in environmental planning and man- 
agement decisions. During the past year, John Balling and Suzanne 
Pogell have looked at several aspects of the roles of psychological 
theory and public participation in the resolution of potential con- 
flict and in improvement of the decision-making process. In papers 
presented both at the annual conference of the Environmental 
Design Research Association and at this year's Environmental Law 
Conference, Balling proposed the use of linear decision models as 
means of arriving at effective and representative decisions. 

Such models can be used to facilitate the decision process by 
making the parameters underlying the decision explicit and open 
to public scrutiny. They also provide a method for potentially 
avoiding inconsistencies and biases in human judgment, such as the 
tendency to consider one's own experience as much more repre- 
sentative than it actually is. Although it is not necessary for their 
utilization that these models be computer-based, if they are they 
allow decision makers to manipulate many variables simulta- 
neously to receive rapid feedback on the results of different 
decision strategies, to display the information in an easily compre- 
hended form, and to integrate information from many different 
sources in a fair way. Balling argued that although linear models 
have rarely been used to facilitate environmental decisions, it 
would be quite natural to extend them to help the resolution of en- 
vironmental conflicts that generally involve complex issues and 
contrasting values. 

Pogell, in a proposed conceptual framework for a Chesapeake 
Bay information network, and in a number of recent publications 



Science I 81 



and presentations, suggested several bases for considering the par- 
ticipation of an informed public in the formulation and implemen- 
tation of environmental policy. Specifically — early, open, and con- 
tinued public access to useful information, the decision makers, 
and the decision-making process has a positive effect on both the 
political process and the management of the physical environment. 
Timeliness, accuracy, brevity, clarity, and translation of technical 
terms into lay language are elements offered as basic to "useful" 
information. 

Additionally, Pogell suggests a number of specific outreach 
mechanisms for fostering informed participation by two distinct 
groups: those who can be expected to be interested and involved, 
and those who by virtue of economic, social, or geographic isola- 
tion remain unserved through traditional channels of information 
and access. Training in awareness and leadership is one of these 
mechanisms. Another is use of the news media to establish avenues 
of communication between sources of information and target 
publics. A third is initiation of public participation opportunities 
at the community level. 



Fort Pierce Bureau 

The Fort Pierce Bureau, located on the central east coast of Florida, 
is in a zoogeographic transitional zone which offers an unrivaled 
opportunity for study of a unique complex of both temperate and 
tropical plants and animals. On an estuarine lagoon near the At- 
lantic Ocean, the facility is within easy reach of a wide diversity of 
habitats ranging from the mangroves, sea-grass beds, and mud flats 
of the Indian River to the sandy beaches and worm reefs of the 
oceanic coast and the coquinoid limestone ledges, oculinid coral 
reefs, and shell-hash plains of the nearby continental shelf. The 
Florida Current with its rich supply of planktonic larvae is readily 
accessible several miles offshore. Research at the Fort Pierce 
Bureau emphasizes studies of the life histories, systematics, and 
ecology of a wide spectrum of marine invertebrates. Contributing 
to the research efforts are resident scientists, postdoctoral fellows, 
and numerous national and international visiting investigators. The 
Reference Museum houses 14,000 catalogued specimens represen- 



82 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



tative of local marine flora and fauna. Facilities include small boats 
for work in the Indian River lagoon and the nearshore oceanic 
waters, and an electron microscope laboratory with both scanning 
and transmission microscopes. Limited laboratory space is avail- 
able for visiting scientists. 

The Life Histories Program of the Fort Pierce Bureau, under the 
direction of Dr. Mary Rice, stresses studies on both reproductive and 
larval biology of marine invertebrates of the Indian River lagoon and 
offshore continental shelf. Emphasis is on the clarification of system- 
atic problems and an understanding of phylogenetic relationships 
among marine invertebrates. At the same time, baseline informa- 
tion is accumulated on critical stages in reproduction and develop- 
ment that is potentially useful in assessments of environmental 
stresses and changes on populations of marine organisms. During 
the past year, various aspects of reproduction and larval develop- 
ment have been studied in sipunculans, echinoderms, crustaceans, 
and mollusks. 

In continuing studies of life histories of sipunculans, develop- 
ment of several species has been examined and compared in the 
laboratory. One species, Golfingia pellucida, was reared from egg 
to juvenile worm. This is the first time that any sipunculan with a 
planktotrophic larval stage has been successfully reared through 
metamorphosis. 

A comparison was made of early development of two popula- 
tions, presumed to belong to the same species, Golfingia misakiana. 
One was from a population collected from a depth of 50 to 80 
meters on the continental shelf near Fort Pierce, Florida. The other, 
probably from the Caribbean, was reared in the laboratory from 
larvae collected in the Gulf Stream offshore from Fort Pierce. 
Adults of the two populations show minor difference in morpho- 
logical characters. Developmental characters were found to differ 
in size of eggs, position of arrested metaphase spindle, pigmenta- 
tion, and developmental chronology. Several hybrid cultures were 
reared through early development. Developmental characters of the 
hybrids resembled those of the female rather than the male. 

A concentrated effort was made to rear Golfingia misakiana 
through its entire life cycle. Larvae collected from the plankton 
were reared to sexually mature adults; young larvae from spawn- 
ing of these adults were reared to an age of three months during 



Science I 83 



which period they assumed many features of the oceanic larvae. 
All attempts to induce metamorphosis failed. Young larvae were 
subjected at regular intervals to conditions known to induce meta- 
morphosis in older larvae — without positive results. 

In ongoing studies of the systematics, morphology, and meta- 
morphosis of oceanic larvae, plankton collections were made at 
monthly or bimonthly intervals from the Florida Current off Fort 
Pierce. Oceanic larvae collected from surface plankton were reared 
to identifiable juveniles. Larvae not heretofore identified were two 
species of Sipunculus and one of Siphonosoma. Metamorphosis of 
the Siphonosoma was studied in sectioned and fixed material. 

The first demonstration of nervous control of metamorphosis in 
animals was made by postdoctoral fellow Robert Burke in his 
research on two species of sea urchins from the Indian River la- 
goon. Dr. Burke investigated two problems of larval metamorpho- 
sis of sea urchins: (2) the means by which larvae perceive cues 
for metamorphosis, (2) internal mechanisms of the larvae for the 
induction of metamorphosis. In an electron microscope study of 
larval appendages he demonstrated specialized sensory organs for 
testing substrata. The role of the larval nervous system in induc- 
ing metamorphosis was shown by the metamorphic response to 
stimulation of nervous tissues by microelectrodes and to treatment 
of larvae with specific neurotransmitter substances. 

Visiting investigators have contributed to the research efforts 
of the Life Histories Program by studies on reproduction of kino- 
rhynchs, phonorids, bryozoans, echinoderms, and gastropod mol- 
lusks. An interest by several visiting scientists in the oceanic larvae 
of the Florida Current has produced studies of feeding activity, 
respiration, regeneration, and tissue differentiation. 

Research in crustacean biology, directed by Dr. Robert Gore, 
comprised aspects of the systematic, ecological developmental and 
zoogeographical biology of decapod and euphausiid crustaceans 
from the Indian River and related tropical regions. These investiga- 
tions are part of a continuing research program by the Fort Pierce 
Bureau on the taxonomy, distribution, and evolutionary relation- 
ships of shrimps, crabs, mantis shrimps, and krill in the tropical 
western Atlantic and eastern Pacific oceans. 

Studies on larval development were carried out on decapod 
crustaceans collected locally, and from other zoogeographical areas 



84 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



in the southern Caribbean Sea. In the Brachyura, the first five 
larval stages were obtained in laboratory culture of the coral-gall 
crab, Troglocarcinus corallicola, a species collected from offshore 
oculinid coral reefs. This marks the first time that the larvae of any 
member of the family Hapalocarcinidae has been studied in depth. 
Larval development in the family is otherwise unknown, and the 
group is so taxonomically confused that its phylogenetic position 
has not yet been clarified within the brachyuran Decapoda. Pre- 
liminary evidence from the larvae, however, tends to confirm 
suggestions made by earlier systematists, that the family is near 
the Pinnotheridae, the commensal pea crabs. Another coral- 
associated brachyuran crab, Micropanope barbadenis, was suc- 
cessfully cultured under laboratory conditions, the first time the 
complete larval development has been determined for any member 
of this xanthid genus. Both Mithrax forceps, a species of spider 
crab found on inshore coquinoid ledges off central Florida, and M. 
corphye, collected in intertidal grassbeds of Colombia, South 
America, were also successfully reared to completion. 

In the Anomura, larvae and postlarvae were obtained from 
Pylopagurus holthuisi, a small hermit crab collected east of the Fort 
Pierce Inlet. The genus Pylopagurus is presently being extensively 
revised by other workers, and larval studies should provide much 
aid in determining relationships among the as yet to be defined 
new genera. A single stage-one zoea in the family Albuneidae, 
collected from the plankton, also completed its development in the 
laboratory. On the basis of postlarval characters the species was 
identified as the sand crab, Lepidopa richmondi, a species for which 
the adults are as yet unreported from the Indian River region, al- 
though they are known from several localities in the Caribbean 
Sea. 

Scanning electron microscopy has proved to be a valuable tool 
in several areas of study. Scanning electron micrographs (sem) 
were obtained of the gonopods in many of the locally occurring 
species of mud crabs in the family Xanthidae. The morphological 
differences exhibited in these appendages have proven useful in 
distinguishing among the species and will be of aid in the identifi- 
cation of taxa in this widespread and often taxonomically confus- 
ing family. In other studies, sem of decapod larvae have been made 
in order to elucidate minute surface structures not visible in ordi- 



Science I 85 



nary light microscopy, sem has also been used to study an interest- 
ing taxonomic problem concerning the euphausiid genus Stylo- 
cheiron. Four species, differing primarily in the number of facets 
in the upper half of bilobed compound eye, have reproductive 
organ morphologies which do not differ significantly one from 
another. This suggests that the four forms are really a single poly- 
morphic species in which general morphology changes according 
to habitat (i.e., depth) and/or body size. 

As part of the Indian River Coastal Zone Museum's attempt to 
incorporate as many species of the regional fauna as possible in its 
collections, studies on a previously unrepresented group, the eu- 
phasiid crustaceans, are presently being completed. Commonly 
known as krill, these small shrimplike forms constitute a major 
component of the offshore plankton. The group was last studied 
in this area in 1926, although more recent surveys have been con- 
ducted off Miami and the Gulf of Mexico to the south. Samples 
taken during a 1974 cruise of the research vessel Gosnold con- 
tained twenty-four species in five genera. This information will be 
used in studies surveying the euphasiid fauna along the entire 
eastern Florida coastline, in conjunction with the sem investigations 
mentioned earlier. 

Studies in systematic zoology presently underway or completed 
include a review of the genera of coral-gall crabs (family Hapalo- 
carcinidae) in the Atlantic, a questioning of the taxonomic validity 
of the oxrhynchous crabs as a natural grouping, and descriptions 
and taxonomic relationships of several new brachyuran crab and 
caridean shrimp species from either the Indian River region, the 
Florida Keys, or the southern Caribbean Sea. Several of these 
studies have been the result of cooperative efforts involving visit- 
ing investigators from both national and international institutions. 

The postdoctoral program was directed toward histological and 
ultrastructural studies of the connective tissue surrounding the 
digestive epithelium of two commercially important decapods, the 
adult stone crab, Menippe mercenaria, and the American lobster, 
Homarus americanus. Investigations by postdoctoral fellow Dr. 
Ian Factor have also been conducted on the development and meta- 
morphosis of the digestive system and feeding apparatus of the 
stone crab. Morphological evidence suggests that the function of 
the mastication of food shifts from the mandible to the gastric 



86 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



mill when the crab molts to the megalopa. These morphological 
changes correspond to the transition in environment, and presum- 
ably diet, which takes place at metamorphosis, when the stone crab 
settles out of the plankton and begins benthic life. 

Postdoctoral studies by Dr. Jack McDonald were completed on 
niche differentiation, and aspects of reproductive physiology and 
ecology in sympatric species pairs of xanthid mud crabs, producing 
data on fecundity, breeding cycles, survivorship, and recruitment 
of larvae within the estuarine lagoon. 

The Reference Museum at the Fort Pierce Bureau, initiated in 
1972 during the original baseline survey of the Indian River 
Coastal Zone Program, has developed into a quality collection of 
more than 14,000 catalogued lots. The majority of specimens have 
been collected from the Indian River lagoon and the adjacent con- 
tinental shelf waters. 

The major taxa are represented by animals identified to the 
species level; included are major holdings in fishes, crustaceans, 
echinoderms, annelids, and mollusks. New taxa are added regularly 
and a limited amount of paratypic material is maintained on site. 
All collections are processed on a routine basis involving preserva- 
tion, identification, and cataloguing of the reference material, plus 
maintenance of a continually updated computerized species list. 
The collections are of special interest because they encompass 
species from the zoogeographic transition zone that exists be- 
tween the tropical West Indian fauna to the south and the warm- 
temperate Carolinian fauna to the north. The holdings have been of 
value to full-time staff members as well as to visiting scientists and 
pre- and postdoctoral fellows. As a working reference collection, 
much of the material is available to qualified investigators on short- 
or long-term loan for examination or research projects. In special 
cases, duplicate material may be borrowed indefinitely or recipro- 
cally exchanged. 

Research on foraminifera at the Fort Pierce Bureau, directed by 
Dr. Martin Buzas of the National Museum of Natural History, is 
concerned chiefly with ecology of benthic foraminifera. Their dis- 
tribution in both time and space is being documented, and through 
field observations and experimentation, the observed patterns are 
being related to abiotic and biotic variables. 

In the Indian River exclosure experiments were conducted to 



Science I 87 



determine the effect of predation on foraminifera. The experiments 
showed that densities of foraminifera were reduced greatly through 
predation by macroorganisms. A survey of the gut contents of 
many macrofaunal organisms from the Indian River indicated that 
many deposit feeders, including some fish, ingest foraminifera. 
This demonstrated the importance of biotic control on foraminifera 
densities. 

Seasonal variation of foraminifera densities occurs in the river, 
and some interplay between biotic and abiotic variables seems 
likely. To assess the role of abiotic variables, foraminiferal 
densities were enumerated for eight months at two sites. These 
sites are adjacent to areas where a Nutrients and Trace Metals 
Chemistry Group was monitoring chemical variables in sediment 
pore water. Preliminary observations suggest increases in foraminif- 
eral abundance are triggered by increases in temperature and 
salinity. To test this, laboratory cultures of Quinqueloculina im- 
pressa were subjected to these conditions and the increase of these 
variables did seem to stimulate reproduction. The number of young 
produced during multiple fission was found to vary greatly, from 
10 to 430, with an average of about 50. 

To document the large-scale distribution of foraminifera in the 
Indian River, replicate samples were taken throughout the length 
of the river, and the living foraminifera were sorted to the species 
level. There is an overlying trend of increasing diversity toward 
the southern portion of the river, as well as a concentration of 
higher diversity stations near the inlets. The overlying trend may 
be explained by decreasing thermal stress to the south, and the 
increased diversity near the inlets may be the result of increase 
exchange with open water foraminifera. 

Foraminiferal populations are also being studied on the conti- 
nental shelf. In an offshore experiment, exclosures containing 
azooic sediment and covered with a 1 mm mesh screen have been 
placed at depths of 32 m, 121 m, and 187 m. Preliminary analysis 
shows differences in density between the exclosures and the con- 
trols to be smaller than in the river, suggesting that macrofaunal 
predation is less important in controlling foraminiferal densities 
offshore. In these experiments the azooic sands were colonized 
rapidly but the species composition differed from the control areas, 
suggesting that succession may be occurring. 



88 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



While examining the control samples from these offshore ex- 
periments a large spatial variation in the foraminiferal population 
was observed. Subcores taken from the same 0.10 m 2 sample fre- 
quently showed a 300 percent variation in total numbers of living 
foraminifera. To determine if this is a common, or perhaps a 
seasonal, occurrence, a sampling program was initiated at depths 
of 121 m and 187 m. Preliminary data suggests spatial variation is 
much greater than anything observed in the river. This is unex- 
pected because the offshore ocean floor appears uniform over short 
distances, especially when compared to the more dynamic Indian 
River. 

An experiment designed to measure the effect of catastrophic 
burial on foraminifera demonstrated that the time required for a 
foraminifer to emerge from a given burial depth is proportional to 
the square of that depth. From this it may be inferred that foram- 
iniferal velocity through the sediment is inversely proportional 
to the depth of the sediment. If movement is required for survival, 
then burial can be tolerated only to some finite depth, an important 
consideration in areas where the sediment is distributed by such 
events as storms or dredging. 

Smithsonian postdoctoral fellow Dr. Malcolm Erskian is study- 
ing the dynamics of spatial patterns in benthic Foraminiferida with 
Dr. Buzas. The arrangement of individuals is a fundamental char- 
acteristic of biological populations. Patterns of dispersion provide 
meaningful information about community structure and the inter- 
action of species within the community. These spatial patterns 
are dynamics, affected by the interaction of biotic and physical 
factors. Quinqueloculina impressa is the dominant foraminiferan 
in the sea grass, Thalassia testudinum, community at Fort Pierce. 
Population densities are seasonal with large numbers of individuals 
produced in the spring. Seasonal changes in population density 
produce spatial patterns which differ in age-size structure and 
habitat during the year. 

Through these studies an understanding of many facets of foram- 
iniferal ecology is emerging. Predation, physical-chemical vari- 
ables, and physical disturbance all affect the structure of the foram- 
iniferal community. Assessing the importance of these variables 
in given environmental regimes eventually will lead to an ability 
to predict the outcome of changes in the environment. 



Science I 89 



Dr. Richard S. Houbrick of the National Museum of Natural 
History has focused his research at Fort Pierce on two prosobranch 
snails of the family Potamididae. These two species, Cerithidea 
scalariformis and Batillaria minima, are estuarine snails that lead 
an amphibious life at the high water mark. Studies are now under- 
way on their anatomy, reproductive biology, and ecology. 

Dr. David Pawson of the National Museum of Natural History, 
and Mr. John Miller of the Harbor Branch Foundation, Inc., con- 
tinued their research on the systematics, ecology, and development 
of echinoderms. Using the research submersible Johnson-Sea-Link, 
dives were made on a quarterly basis to investigate the ecology of 
sea cucumbers and sea urchins associated with Oculina coral reefs. 
These reefs, abundant off central-east Florida in 60 to 90 meters, 
provide an excellent habitat for numerous species of marine inver- 
tebrates. 

Ongoing studies concerned with the systematics of sea cucum- 
bers from the western Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico have been 
beneficial in uncovering several new species and increasing our 
knowledge of the zoogeography of holothurians. Photography of 
species-specific body wall ossicles, using the scanning electron 
microscope, has provided much new information on the skeletal 
composition of these animals. Data obtained from these investiga- 
tions is being compiled for a monograph on the shallow-water 
holothurians of the western Atlantic. 

Isolated populations of the sea urchin Lytechinus variegatus fre- 
quently appear morphologically distinct. In an attempt to deter- 
mine whether these morphological differences are controlled by 
genetic makeup or by environmental factors, the development of 
laboratory-reared juveniles has been followed throughout the past 
year. Several external characters, including coloration, horizontal 
diameter, spine length, types of pedicellariae, and time of gonopore 
development are examined regularly. Preliminary evidence strongly 
suggests that the varying external characters are genetically con- 
trolled. Upon reaching sexual maturity, experiments in cross-fertili- 
zation will be conducted to determine whether or not these isolated 
populations might be distinct at the species level. 



90 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



National Air and Space Museum 

The National Air and Space Museum (nasm) has made significant 
progress in every area of its five-point program of research, ex- 
hibits, collections management, education, and public service. 

During fiscal year 1980 the museum made additional effort to 
address adequately the knowledge derived from recent space 
science activity. A new department, Space Science and Exploration, 
was created early in 1980 to be a focal area for the space-related 
research, curatorial, and archival activities of the National Air and 
Space Museum. Working with the nasm collections as well as 
archival and bibliographic sources, the new department will in- 
vestigate the disciplines that use the vantage point of space, includ- 
ing astronomy, physics, atmospheric sciences, communications, and 
life sciences, and the means by which human beings have probed 
or stepped into space, including rockets, launch vehicles, and space- 
craft. 

Research in this department will comprise historical studies of 
space science and exploration, technical surveys of space disciplines 
and technology, and selected scientific researches in the disciplines, 
when desirable and possible. In addition, the department is 
undertaking appropriate historical studies of the social, cultural, 
economic, and political aspects of spaceflight and exploration. The 
primary emphasis of the department is on historical research, but 
it will also monitor and record the present achievements of space- 
flight and space-related technology, acquire significant artifacts, 
and document those achievements and artifacts for public exhi- 
bition, study, and reference. 

The Space Science and Exploration Department has been in the 
process of adding personnel in areas where additional research 
strength is perceived to be needed. It has, in addition, continued 
to work on two important exhibit areas — solar energy and satel- 
lites. Much of the effort of the new department has gone into 
establishment of policies and definition of programs and positions 
needed to fulfill these programs. Interpretive astronomy and 
studies in ethnoastronomy are underway by the department's 
astronomer. From lanuary through June, the department sponsored 
the 1980 lecture series "Exploring Space with Astronomers," which 
had been offered previously through the Presentations Division. 



Science I 91 




Cyndi Birch, 1980 women's Frisbee champ, demonstrates an under-the-leg catch at 
nasm's Fourth Annual Smithsonian Frisbee Disc Festival held August 31 on the 
National Mall. The event attracted more than 10,000 people, fifteen Frisbee Disc 
champions, and two disc-catching dogs. 



The Center for Earth and Planetary Studies (ceps) has concen- 
trated on lunar photogeology, comparative planetology, and ter- 
restrial desert features and processes. The extensive collection of 
planetary photography was expanded by the addition of newly 
available photographs from the Viking and Voyager missions. 

Research on the origin of lunar impact and volcanic features con- 
centrated on the ancient cratered terrain of the farside highlands. 
On the basis of distribution and age of craters larger than 25 km, 
it was found that extensive areas of the lunar farside may have 
been modified by large, basin-forming impacts. In another study 
of the relative age of light-colored plains, the oldest plains were 
found to occupy the floors of farside basins, as do the nearside 
basins with their volcanic fill. These units may represent one of 
the earliest stages of lunar volcanism. The morphology and study 
of eruption of Ina, a D-shaped depression on the lunar nearside, 
also was investigated. 

As part of an ongoing project to study the distribution and 
origin of structurally formed ridges on the surfaces of the terres- 
trial planets, a comparison was made between ridges in the Caloris 
basin on Mercury, and ridges in lunar basins. As a result of this 
study, it was found that deviations from basin-controlled orienta- 
tions in lunar basins indicate the effect of global-scale compression, 
resulting from early cooling of the moon. 

Research on the landforms of Mars consisted of studies of crater 
characteristics based on Viking images, and on comparisons of 
desert features on Mars with those in the Western Desert of 
Egypt. Martian craters are being examined to determine their dis- 
tribution on different terrain types, as well as the influence of local 
and regional structural patterns on their shape and orientation. In 
addition, previous research at ceps has shown that light and dark 
wind-formed streaks in the Western Desert are similar to those 
visible in Viking Orbiter images of Mars. The terrestrial streaks 
are formed by the characteristic pattern of windflow and sediment 
deposition around large hills and mountains, and continue to pro- 
vide information about martian geologic processes. 

Study of deserts expanded as ceps director, Dr. Farouk El-Baz, 
represented the Smithsonian Institution in a delegation of United 
States desert specialists visiting China's northwestern territories 
during August 1979. The visit was sponsored by the National 



Science I 93 



Geographic Society and Beijing's Academia Sinica. The eight- 
member delegation visited parts of the Gobi Desert, the Tengri 
Desert, and the Dzungarian Desert, in northeastern, north-central, 
and northwestern China, respectively. 

Research in the Aeronautics Department has followed traditional 
lines in that it has resulted in exhibits, publications, and the com- 
pilation of data relating to the restoration of artifacts. In addition, 
significant progress was made in collections management. 

Two additions to the Famous Aircraft of the National Air and 
Space Museum series were published: The P-80 Shooting Star, by 
E. T. Wooldridge, Jr., and The Albatros D. Va by Robert C. Mikesh. 
The biennial publication Aircraft in Museums Around the World 
was also completed and distributed. 

A great deal of archival material was added to the computerized 
index. Sorting of the research files at the North Capitol Street 
warehouse has begun, with some duplicate and otherwise unnec- 
essary material being disposed of. A complete index of the techni- 
cal reports from McCook and Wright fields has been prepared as 
have slides from many of the color transparencies in the collection. 
The slides will be accessible for public viewing while the trans- 
parencies will be stored under controlled conditions. 

In October, the museum sponsored a symposium entitled Forty 
Years of Jet Aviation, featuring many of the seminal contributors 
to the jet age — Sir Frank Whittle, Dr. Hans von Ohain, Brigadier 
General Charles Yeager, usaf (Ret.). In conjunction with this sym- 
posium, the museum published The Jet Age, edited by Walter J. 
Boyne and Donald S. Lopez, representing all of the symposium 
lecturers as well as supporting material. As an interesting side- 
light, one article from this book has been widely reprinted in the 
People's Republic of China in Chinese as a text for engineers. 

The museum has made a major effort to ensure that scientific 
research is integrated across the broad spectrum of museum pro- 
grams, and has sought to integrate the efforts of several depart- 
ments to achieve results in each of the major programs. As a single 
example, the museum plans an exhibition on energy from the sun. 
The creation of this exhibition will involve the Center for Earth and 
Planetary Studies (for over-all responsibility), the Department of 
Aeronautics (for structures, windmills, wave energy, and solar- 
powered aircraft), the Department of Space Science and Exploration 



94 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



(for energy in space, application in transportation), the Exhibits and 
Presentations Division and Production Operations Division (for 
design and construction of exhibits), the Education Services Divi- 
sion (for a briefing room presentation, curriculum materials on 
energy awareness, and tours centered on the exhibition) and Collec- 
tions Management (for selection, preservation, and exhibition of 
artifacts). 

From this joint effort multiple products will derive. We expect 
publications in the form of monographs, gallery guides, and other 
books, and a series of lectures by various members of the staff. 
We also expect that the public will be prompted to consider the full 
ramifications of the energy shortage and the opportunity cost of 
the various alternative approaches to solution of the crisis. 

The Education Services Division moved into new quarters di- 
rectly underneath the Milestones of Flight Gallery, and expanded 
its diverse public services program. "The Briefing Room," a spe- 
cialized area where interactive programs between staff and the 
public are conducted, was completed, as was the Teacher Resources 
Center, a facility for dispensing audiovisual and printed teaching 
material relating to air and space. A special advantage of this facil- 
ity is that teachers may, with the assistance of staff personnel, 
tailor their own courses with available material. 

nasm, one of the most accessible public buildings in the world 
for the handicapped, extended its range of services in preparation 
for the International Year of the Disabled Person. A complete 
series of thermoform raised-line models was made of major arti- 
facts. These serve as tactile demonstrations of objects whose size 
or position make them inaccessible to the blind. Complete scripts 
of audiovisual exhibits were prepared for the hearing impaired. 

Multicultural efforts were continued with publication of the 
proceedings of the 1979 nasm multicultural conference and the 
planning of the "Multicultural Heritage" night in 1980, an event 
illustrating the success women and minorities have had in the aero- 
space field. 

Air and Space magazine completed its third year of publication. 
While single-copy distribution is limited to 30,000 educators, studies 
indicate that pass-along readership approaches 500,000 per issue. 

The Education Services Division is engaged in numerous other 
programs — publication and distribution of museum-related film- 



Science / 95 



strips, assistance to other museums, and so on — but it makes its 
most direct contribution to the public in terms of the thousands 
of visitors who receive specially devised tours. 

Collections Management has become a focal point for every 
manager at nasm, and this was confirmed by the issuance of an 
over-all Museum Collections Management Plan covering the ac- 
quisition, disposal, storage, loan, inventory, and protection of arti- 
facts. The major collecting departments developed individual plans 
to review their existing collections and to determine what new ac- 
quisitions will be made. 

The importance of Collections Management was underlined this 
year by a number of events and new endeavors, perhaps the most 
notable being dedication of the Paul E. Garber Preservation, 
Restoration, and Storage Facility in Suitland, Maryland. Named 
for Mr. Paul E. Garber, Historian Emeritus of nasm, the facility 
was dedicated formally on the occasion of the distinguished his- 
torian's sixtieth anniversary with the Smithsonian Institution. 

The Garber Facility acquired a significant new capability with 
two large temperature- and humidity-controlled storage areas for 
space suits, pressure suits, works of art, and other items susceptible 
to damage from the ordinary environment. 

The loan program, a vital part of Collections Mangament, con- 
tinues at a high level of activity; 1,567 artifacts are on loan to 
185 museums in the United States and abroad. 

nasm received an award from the Atherton Seidell Foundation 
for a pilot program in archival storage which will involve the use 
of video disc technology. The results of this program will be used 
to determine nasm's further pursuit of this technology, which 
promises to enhance the retrieval and review of all types of infor- 
mation, and the preservation of some types that do not call for 
high resolution reproduction. 

The restoration program has continued in full operation, with 
the completion of the Bellanca CF, the Vought F4U-1 Corsair, the 
Langley Aerodrome (designed by the third Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution), and a whole series of aircraft engines. 

The Exhibits and Presentations Division continued its program 
of providing one new major gallery exhibition each year in addi- 
tion to several "mini-exhibits." This effort was complemented by 
an intensive renovation program for the existing exhibitions, many 



96 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



of which had begun to show signs of wear and tear after having 
been visited by some 40,000,000 visitors. 

A major exhibition on flight history opened in March, and re- 
created in the Early Flight Gallery the ambiance of a 1913 aero- 
nautical salon. The Northrop-Douglas Legacy in the Pioneers of 
Flight Gallery highlights the accomplishments of the pioneer air- 
craft designers John K. Northrop and Donald W. Douglas. A 
smaller exhibit, Flight Attendants, in the Hall of Air Transporta- 
tion, honored the services — over the course of fifty years — of flight 
attendants in commercial aircraft. Rowland Emett's S. S. Pussie- 
willow II was opened to the public on March 8, 1980. This whir- 
ring, spinning, flashing, and undulating machine was installed by 
the artist on the mezzanine of the Flight and the Arts Gallery. 
Emett describes the work as a "projected personal Air and Space 
Vehicle of an unusual stern-wheel configuration, with Flying car- 
pet overtones, to be equally at home this side of Heavyside Layers, 
and suchlike, as well as the upper planetary reaches." An exhibi- 
tion of paintings by the "old master of space art," Chesley Bone- 
stell, was opened in June in the Independence Avenue Lobby. 

New Eyes on the Universe is the third production of the Albert 
Einstein Spacearium. The show attempts to educate the public in 
an entertaining style about a fundamental principle of physics — 
the nature of light and the electromagnetic spectrum. The pro- 
duction illustrates how astronomers now utilize the entire electro- 
magnetic spectrum to help them discover new types of objects in 
space and understand the nature of others. Beginning with visual 
astronomy, the story traces the development of radio astronomy, 
and then presents a description of the electromagnetic spectrum. 
Examples of astronomical objects are then examined in different 
parts of the spectrum. The show ends with a film of the large Space 
Telescope, the first of a new generation of space observatories de- 
signed to explore those portions of the spectrum that are inacces- 
sible from earth. Combining movies, panoramas, and slides, along 
with the starfield of the Zeiss projector, New Eyes on the Universe 
was produced entirely by the Spacearium staff. 

The two feature films, To Fly and Living Planet, have been 
seen to date by 7,000,000 visitors, and continue to play to capacity 
audiences. 

The museum public services programs have featured a large 



Science I 97 




S.S. Pussiewillow II, designed by British sculptor Rowland Emett, was placed on 
exhibit in nasm's Flight and the Arts gallery in March. The imaginative craft is, in 
Emett's words, "a projected space vehicle on an interesting paddleboat configuration 
with flying-carpet overtones." Below. The famous Bleriot XI, shown here in nasm's 
new gallery on Early Flight, was the most popular pre-World War I airplane. 




variety of lectures, films, and tours. An attempt is made to appeal 
to a large cross-section of the public and to tie in themes related to 
either exhibits, anniversaries, or topical events. During the year 
there were such diverse after-hour activities as: the summarizing 
of new findings about Jupiter and Saturn by Dr. Edward C. Stone 
in the third annual Wernher von Braun lecture; a lecture by four 
women who have made significant contributions to aviation; a 
lecture by Dr. Paul McCready, the third annual Grierson Me- 
morial lecturer, discussing his design of the first human-powered 
aircraft to fly the English Channel, his Gossamer Albatross; two 
different series of lectures on astronomical subjects, one held at 
noon, the other in the evening; two different feature film series, 
one on aviation and the other on space science; and finally, in 
what has become a nasm tradition, the annual Frisbee Festival. 

The National Air and Space Museum received several important 
donations, including the Andrew G. Haley and Juan Terry Trippe 
collections. The library also provided editing and compilation serv- 
ices in completing the Aeronautics Department's Directory of 
Aerospace Resources. 

On May 7, 1980, Secretary Ripley presented the third annual 
Robert A. Brooks Award to Walter J. Boyne, Assistant Director for 
Resource Management and Operations. 



National Museum of Man, 
Center for the Study of Man 

NATIONAL ANTHROPOLOGICAL FILM CENTER 

The National Anthropological Film Center (nafc) was established 
to provide a means to develop, study, and preserve visual data 
resources on vanishing and changing ways of life and culture, of 
the world. The principal work of the Film Center is retrieval, prep- 
aration, analysis, and preservation of visual data, and the inter- 
nationally integrated collaborative effort that this work requires. 

At present the budget of the nafc is devoted almost entirely 
to Visual Data Resources Development. Insufficient funding and 
facilities have limited activity in film analysis, equipment and sys- 
tems design, and information/education as increasingly rapid dis- 
appearance of traditional lifeways in the world has made attention 
to gathering visual data more urgent. The current emphasis also 



Science I 99 



follows the recommendations of the Advisory Council to the nafc 
and responds to this council's concern that "the salvage situation 
is desperate and will become increasingly so." 

Although the nafc's mandate in the granting area is limited for 
reasons of practicality and economy, the Film Center seeks out and 
develops collaborative assistance projects with a variety of human 
studies experts and anthropologists throughout the world. Two 
major programs — the Collaborative Program Assisting Third 
World Nations and the Collaborative Program Assisting Ethno- 
filmers and Scholars — provide supplementary assistance to estab- 
lished research filming projects, including film stock, equipment, 
indexing and annotation aid, grant proposal assistance, and other 
services as possible. Even though the nafc has had only partial 
basic funding for three years, it has provided supplementary as- 
sistance to thirty-eight ethnofilmers and scholars. 

Guided by an outreach philosophy embracing the variety of 
schools of thought dealing with visual data retrieval and analysis, 
the nafc engages in collaborative Visual Data Resources Develop- 
ment with counterpart scholars and leaders in different institutions, 
disciplines, nations, and cultures. In doing so the nafc is governed 
by the belief that filming guided by the varied sense of problem 
and belief emerging from different scholarly and cultural ap- 
proaches will provide the broadest and richest range of visual data 
for future scholars. 

The Collaborative Program Assisting Third World Nations 
(patw) is binational and interinstitutional. In keeping with present 
world requirements, it touches on many cultures and incorporates 
the different approaches of different disciplines and different 
nations. To date it has assisted in the development of urgent visual 
data retrieval projects in India, Nepal, Papua New Guinea, Poly- 
nesia, Micronesia, Tibet, Afghanistan, and Brazil; and it has par- 
ticipated in planning surveys in Sudan and Pakistan. All patw 
projects are fully collaborative with counterparts from the human 
studies professions and from the host countries. As part of this 
program, individuals from the countries or cultures involved are 
located and trained to take part in the filming. 

In order to provide the broadest possible latitude for independent 
scholarly development of visual data resources on vanishing life- 
ways, the nafc has begun the Collaborative Program Assisting 



100 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Ethnofilmers and Scholars (paes) to experiment with various kinds 
and levels of support to ethnofilmers and scholars who have a 
clear interest in contributing to the National Anthropological Film 
Collection. We have found that support can require anything from 
consultation alone to intermediate forms of assistance such as pro- 
viding equipment, film stock, processing, logistic help, training, 
assembly and annotation services, grant application assistance, 
preservation service, and facilities for analysis. 

In implementing the paes program the nafc is also guided by the 
philosophy that many minds and many ways of doing things can 
contribute to an ultimately richer research resource. The nafc thus 
implements the paes very broadly. It is normally required, however, 
that projects be approved by the appropriate department in a 
recognized institution of higher learning and (when appropriate) 
have received review by a foundation employing a peer review 
system, paes support must also be approved by the Advisory 
Council to the nafc and the reviewing bodies of the host nations. 

Advice on potential collaborative situations comes through con- 
tacts of a variety of kinds: contact with professionals familiar with 
the scholarly human studies work going on in the different parts 
of the world; discussions at professional meetings; and contacts 
with responsible scholarly institutions in Third World nations. 

Visual data preparation and preservation lies at the base of all 
the efforts of the National Anthropological Film Center. Without 
working up the obtained visual data as an accessible and perma- 
nent scholarly resource, the research value of this data becomes 
minimal. 

The Program of Visual Data Preparation and Preservation is 
based on the generally accepted belief that the usefulness of visual 
data records increases with: (2) preserving the full footage; (2) pre- 
serving details of time and place, and maintaining the original time 
continuity; (3) knowledge of the purpose and guiding rationale 
behind the filming work; (4) knowledge of the filmer's professional 
and cultural orientation and personal predilections; (5) background 
information on the events, people, communities, and cultures 
filmed; (6) knowledge of circumstances not seen in the film which 
might have affected the events or activities that are seen; (7) ex- 
planations of the significance of the filmed events by members of 
the communities or cultures filmed and by trained experts; and (8) 



Science I 101 




Tibetan women irrigating a field in Mathoo Village, Ladakh, in western Tibet, are 
documented by Ragpa Dorjee Lama of the National Research Film Collection. Below. 
A Tibetan Opera Company performance is filmed in South India by Mr. Dorjee, 
nrfc research film specialist. (Photos by Dr. E. R. Sorenson.) 



jU J ' 

W*rwmrimrwm 




indexing and cataloguing. When the Film Center assists a filming 
project, it requires that a means be established by which the infor- 
mation listed above will be obtained and keyed to the film footage 
obtained. The ultimate objective is to preserve such information 
together with the visual record within the National Anthropo- 
logical Film Collection. 

RESEARCH INSTITUTE ON IMMIGRATION AND ETHNIC STUDIES 

The Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies (rues) 
has maintained its efforts to facilitate and promote the study of 
contemporary immigration in its effect upon the United States and 
the international community and its discernible implications for the 
future. With the publication of two volumes, Sourcebook on the 
New Immigration: Implications for the United States and the Inter- 
national Community and Supplement to the Sourcebook on the 
New Immigration (reflecting the proceedings and the preliminary 
deliberations for the nation's first and only major international con- 
ference on the new immigration, held at the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion November 15—17, 1976), the Research Institute is now bringing 
to an end the first phase of its program. In light of the power- 
ful effect riies has had in stimulating and directing academic re- 
searchers to study new immigration and new immigrants, it now 
will begin to focus on a more specialized program of studies and 
exhibits on the Caribbean region as both source and recipient of 
new immigration and immigrants and on the sociocultural proc- 
esses that accompany such movements. 

In the past year rues has been collecting and editing papers for 
publication of the following supplementary materials: Contem- 
porary Studies of the Black and Latin-American Female and the 
Migratory Experience in the United States, with selected bibliog- 
raphy, edited by Delores Mortimer and Roy Bryce-Laporte; The 
Urban Carnival: A Contribution of the Afro-Caribbean Immigrant 
to the United States Culture, edited by Roy Bryce-Laporte, Elliott 
Parris, and Katherine Williams; Historical and Contemporary 
Migrations from the Caribbean to the Latin-American Mainland, 
edited by Roy Bryce-Laporte. The supply of many of the Insti- 
tute's earlier publications has been exhausted by the demands of 
scholars, researchers, policymakers, and the interested public. 
These documents are undergoing revision for a second printing 
and in some cases expansion or supplementation. 

Science I 103 



In order to advance involvement of the new immigration intel- 
lectual community in educating the American public about ongoing 
cultural changes and contributions, the institute collaborated with 
the Afro-American Studies Program of Howard University in 
sponsoring a seminar on Carnival. This seminar took place on the 
Mall during the 1979 celebration of the Smithsonian's Folk Life 
Festival. As part of an outreach activity, three visiting scholars — 
Errol Hill (Dartmouth), Abidia Nascimento (SUNY-Buffalo), and 
Ronald Smith (Indiana) — gave presentations, including slide col- 
lections, at Howard University and at the Duke Ellington School 
of the Arts. A second aspect of the seminar on the Mall was the 
roundtable discussion for organizers of urban carnivals in the 
United States. The intricacies and exigencies of this cultural form 
new to American and Canadian urban life were clarified by Latin- 
American and West Indian immigrants. The Research Institute also 
participated in the opening of a photographic exhibition held at the 
Martin Luther King Library by Festivals Magazine on the Urban 
Carnival. All of these — the seminar, roundtable, and exhibition — ■ 
are RiiES-sponsored or associated innovations to the carnival tra- 
dition which are now being adopted by immigrant organizations in 
specific cities of North America. 

During the year, Dr. Roy Bryce-Laporte, director of the institute, 
participated in several meetings: the Second Congress of Black 
Culture held in Panama City, for which he was a member of the 
organizing committee and chairman of the panel on Race, Class, 
and Nationality; the Caribbean Studies Association meeting in 
Curacao, Netherlands Antilles, where he served as a discussant on 
the panel on the Adjustments among New Immigrants to the 
United States; the annual meeting of the Caribbean- American In- 
ternational Organization, Washington, D.C., where he served on a 
panel on Linkages in the Black World. Dr. Bryce-Laporte also ap- 
peared before the United States Select Committee on Immigration 
and Refuge Policy as coordinator and member of a panel on Carib- 
bean Immigration; served at the American Congressional Black 
Caucus as panelist on the Caribbean; attended two UNESCO con- 
ferences in Barbados, one on the Black African Presence in North, 
South, and Caribbean America, and the other on Planning for Ad- 
vancing Social Science Programs in the Caribbean; lectured at the 
Institute of International Relations, University of the West Indies, 



104 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



St. Augustine, Trinidad, on Caribbean Immigration and Its Inter- 
national Implications; attended a conference on Policy Implications 
at the University of Wisconsin at which he read a paper titled 
"The New Immigration: Its Origin, Visibility and Implications 
for Public Policy"; and collaborated on the paper "A Lesser Known 
Aspect of the African Diaspora: Jamaicans in Costa Rica," written 
with Trevor Purcell and originally presented at the Institute of 
Black Diaspora at Howard University. 



National Museum of Natural History 

Dr. Richard S. Fiske was named the director of the Smithsonian's 
National Museum of Natural History/National Museum of Man 
(mnh) in January 1980. Fiske is a geologist specializing in volcano- 
logical studies on the research staff of the museum's Department 
of Mineral Sciences. He is the fifth scientist on the museum's staff- 
to hold the museum's directorship since it was designated the 
National Museum of Natural History in 1958. 

EXHIBITS 

The museum is in the process of reorganizing and redesigning its 
old paleobiology exhibits. Opening in spring 1980 were The Con- 
quest of Land and The Flowering Plant Revolution, the first two 
highlights of a large new hall titled Fossils: The History of Life. 
The two highlights chronicle the momentous emergence of plant 
and animal life from the oceans about 400 million years ago and 
the later developments that gradually enabled this life to perfect 
the ability to live on land. 

To explain and illustrate these developments, hundreds of plant 
and animal fossils from the museum's study collections were inte- 
grated in context with their ancient environments. Among the 
spectacular fossils on display are Eryops, a 6-foot-long recon- 
structed fossil amphibian that lived 270 million years ago in what 
is now Texas, and Callixylon, a 15-foot-high fossilized segment of 
one of the world's earliest trees. 

The planning for the project was carried out by an mnh scien- 
tific committee composed of Dr. Ian Maclntyre, chairman; and Drs. 
Daniel Appleman, Robert Emry, Leo Hickey, Nicholas Hotton, 



Science I 105 



Kenneth Towe, and Thomas Waller, in coordination with Gene 
Behlen, mnh's Office of Exhibits chief, and William Haase, assistant 
chief. Planning for the new exhibit hall's other highlights is cur- 
rently in progress. 

Four crystallized gold pieces of extraordinary beauty recently 
acquired by the museum are the centerpieces for a permanent new 
display of gold that opened in the museum's mineral hall in De- 
cember 1979. The exhibit was organized by John Sampson White, 
associate curator in mnh's Department of Mineral Sciences. 

Every two months a special exhibition of photographs, paintings, 
drawings, or sculpture is installed on the museum's third-floor 
rotunda balcony. These shows — dealing with either natural history 
or anthropology — are selected by the museum's Exhibits Com- 
mittee from entries submitted by the public. During the 1979-80 
year this gallery featured: A Shell Game: Reconstructing Designs 
on Pre-Columbian Shells from Spiro; Oklahoma; Geological Art 
of William H. Holmes; Swedish Bronze-Age Rock Carvings; Afri- 
can Insights: Nature Photographs by Mignon Davis; Palms of the 
Lesser Antilles: Botanical Drawings by Alice R. Tangerini Based on 
the Research of Dr. Robert Read; and The Farallon Islands: A 
Conservation Success Story. 

Special exhibitions are also mounted periodically in the mu- 
seum's first-floor Learning Center Gallery. The 1979-80 attractions 
were Eskimo Narrative, Chinese Children's Art, Powhaten Tribal 
Artisans: Contemporary Indian Potters, and Japanese Toys Today. 

On view in 1980 in the National Anthropological Archives 
second-floor alcove photo gallery was a selection of Far Eastern 
Photographs, from the naa's holdings. 

A series of exhibits on staff research mounted in a display case 
in the museum's Constitution Avenue lobby continued in 1979-80 
with shows on Dr. David Pawson's studies of deep sea cucumbers 
and other echinoderms, Dr. Ronald Heyer's use of sound equip- 
ment to analyze frog calls, and Dr. James Mead's research on 
stranded whales and dolphins along the Atlantic coast. 

ANTHROPOLOGY 

Nineteen eighty marks the centennial of the beginning of the 
Smithsonian Bureau of American Ethnology's famous investigation 
of the prehistoric "Mound Builder" Indians. In the decade that 



106 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



followed, more than two thousand mounds were examined, a 
staggering effort, even in comparison to today's multi-million- 
dollar archeological research projects. 

Believing that an in-depth analysis of the Survey was long over- 
due, and that the approaching centennial was a timely occasion 
for it, mnh's Department of Anthropology in January 1980, in co- 
sponsorship with the Lower Mississippi Survey (lms), Peabody 
Museum, Harvard University, held a three-day conference for 
eighteen archeological scholars involved in studies of the prehis- 
toric cultures of the Southeast and Lower Mississippi Valley, mnh 
and lms anthropologists Dr. Bruce D. Smith and Dr. Stephen Wil- 
liams were the organizers. The project was funded by the Smith- 
sonian's Scholary Studies program. 

An Arctic Museum Training Workshop — the first ever held — 
brought to the museum in 1979 a group of Eskimos (Inuit), In- 
dians, and other northerners from Greenland to Alaska. The ten- 
day conference organized by mnh anthropologist William Fitzhugh 
was attended by officials of national museums in Canada and 
Greenland and by individuals representing a number of groups and 
local communities where museums and culture centers have been 
discussed or are in actual operation. 

Presentations included discussion of collection management, 
storage, security, documentation, and recordkeeping, by Vincent 
Wilcox, anthropology collection manager; an overview of common 
artifact deterioration problems and how they can be avoided, by 
Carolyn Rose, head of the museum's Anthropology Conservation 
Laboratory; introduction to the museum's Anthropological Ar- 
chives and its collections of documents, field notes, maps, and 
photographs, by Herman Viola and James Glenn, Archives ad- 
ministrators; a presentation of how museums can pass cultural in- 
formation on to school-age children, by Ruth Selig and Ann Bay, 
specialists in education; and a discussion of the steps involved in 
setting up an exhibit, by Eugene Behlen, head of the museum's 
Office of Exhibits. 

A significant event in 1979-80 was the inauguration of a re- 
print series titled "Smithsonian Classics in Anthropology." James 
Mooney's Kiowa study and John Swanton's encyclopedic account 
of the Indians of the southeastern United States were the first two 
works published in the series. 



Science I 107 



BOTANY 
Two botanical studies involving many years of Indian Ocean field 
work and research by mnh scientists appeared in 1980. The first 
volume in a projected six-volume work on Flora of Ceylon was 
published in February in India by the Smithsonian and the Na- 
tional Science Foundation. This project, directed by mnh Botanist 
Emeritus Dr. F. Raymond Fosberg, involves a family by family re- 
vision of the out-of-date Handbook to the Flora of Ceylon pub- 
lished in 1895 by Henry Trimen. Some fifty scientists throughout 
the world are contributors to the project, including mnh's Thomas 
Soderstrom, Robert Read, Joan Nowicke, Dan Nicholson, and 
Marie Helene Sachet. In April The Flora of Aldabra and Its Neigh- 
boring Islands was published by the Kew Royal Botanic Gardens. 
Fosberg was senior author of this work in collaboration with 
Stephen A. Renevoize of Kew. It is the first major botanical treat- 
ment of this group of islands in the western Indian Ocean, the last 
Old World refuge of the giant tortoises, and site of a Royal Society 
research station, now being maintained by the Seychelles Founda- 
tion in which the Smithsonian is involved. 

National Museum of Natural History botanists turn to the 
scientific literature for the answers to questions about the plants 
they are researching. Yet, often they must search many books and 
papers in scattered libraries before they find the information they 
are after. In 1979-80 two botanical reference works came out that 
bring together and make more accessible key botanical source 
material. Museum scientists played a key role in the production of 
both these works. The three-volume Index Nominum Cenericorum, 
an index of the generic names of all major plant groups, was pub- 
lished in November 1979 with the support of the Smithsonian, 
the International Association of Plant Taxonomists, and the 
National Science Foundation. The editors were Dutch botanists 
Jan A. Leussink and Frans A. Stafleu and mnh's Ellen R. Farr. Over 
one hundred scientific collaborators contributed to the text for the 
index, which covers about 63,500 generic names, mnh's Dr. Richard 
Cowan in collaboration with Frans A. Stafleu of the Netherlands 
was the coauthor in 1979 of volume 2 of the projected six-volume 
work Taxonomic Literature, 2d Edition, a selective guide to bo- 
tanical publications and collections (1753-1939). (Volume 1 was 
published in 1976). The work treats all book and booklike material 



108 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



of importance to the botanical taxonomist, including references to 
biographical details on the authors cited. 

ENTOMOLOGY 

Museum entomologist Dr. Don R. Davis is engaged in a long-term 
effort to reclassify the primitive micro-Lepidoptera, an order of 
insects that has survived on earth relatively unchanged for at least 
200 million years. Learning more about these bizarre "dinosaurs of 
the moth world" is crucial to clarifying the evolution and classifica- 
tion of the order Lepidoptera, the poorest known of all insect 
groups. 

Primitive moths live in the regions of the world that are the 
leftover fragments of Gondwanaland, the southern hemisphere 
supercontinent that was the ancestor of the modern continents. 
Davis has made field trips to three relict areas: South Africa 
(1978), Chile (1979), and Taiwan (1980), assembling one of the 
world's finest representative collections of these rare survivors of 
a bygone time. 

Development is rapidly changing or destroying many of the 
areas where the primitive moths live, and Davis regards it as a 
race against time to get the biological data that will provide a com- 
plete understanding of the primitive moths' four major growth 
forms. Questions such as how do larvae feed remain unanswered 
because of the difficulty in discovering the whereabouts of the im- 
mature forms. 

At the National Museum of Natural History, Davis carefully dis- 
sects the internal as well as the external portions of a specimen's 
anatomy so that it can be placed on slides and subjected to a critical 
study at magnifications as high as 30,000 power. Close attention 
is given to sensory structure found in the insect antennae and wing 
venation as well as to ultramicroscopic details in the scales that 
clothe the body. "We have more material to study than we've ever 
had before and we're beginning to put the pieces together that 
will enable us to make important studies in tracing moth evolution 
from primitive to advanced stages," Davis says. 

The three volumes of the 2,735-page Catalog of Hymenoptera in 
America North of Mexico was published in 1979-80 by the Smith- 
sonian Institution Press. This monumental reference work was 
prepared under the direction of mnh entomologists Karl Krombein 



Science I 109 




nmnh entomologists Dr. Paul Hurd (left) and Dr. Karl Krombein look at the final 
volume of their monumental 2,735-page Catalog of Hymenoptera in America North 
of Mexico, published this year by the Smithsonian Institution Press. 



and Paul Hurd and the United States Department of Agriculture's 
David Smith. The Catalog contains all the basic systematic and 
biological information on the continent's bees, wasps, and ants. Re- 
viewers have called it the finest catalog that has ever been pub- 
lished on a major group of insects for any major geographic region. 

While the format of the present catalog closely parallels that of 
its outdated predecessor, efforts were made to increase the informa- 
tion content to fulfill better the needs of the biological community. 
This has been accomplished by including more prose information 
at the family, subfamily, and generic levels. There is also specific 
information on animal and plant hosts, parasites and predators; a 
host-parasite index is included. 

The most revolutionary step undertaken was the decision to 
enter the entire catalog into the museum's specimen-based com- 
puter bank. Hurd, Krombein, Smith, and other members of the 
catalog Editorial Board worked closely with Dr. James Mello, now 
mnh's associate director, to develop a data storage bank that will 
permit users to ask sophisticated questions relating to systematics, 
biology, ecology, and distribution of Hymenoptera. With a com- 
puterized data base, much of the expense related to data prepara- 
tion and editing will be unnecessary for future catalog editions. 
New editions can be rapidly published as soon as justified by the 
volume of new entries. It is also possible to produce an interim 
catalog of a single family where the volume of new information 
justifies such a course. 

INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 

Dr. David Pawson, curator of echinoderms in the museum's De- 
partment of Invertebrate Zoology, in 1979-80 made some fifteen 
dives off the coast of Florida in the Johnson-Sea-Link sub- 
mersible — in collaboration with Dr. John E. Miller of the Harbor 
Branch Foundation — for the purpose of studying sea cucumbers 
and sea urchins. The common cucumbers and urchins Holothuria 
lentiginosa enodis and a subspecies of Centrostepbanks longispirus 
had not previously been reported from the western Atlantic but 
Pawson and Miller observed large populations of these animals on 
the sea bottom. 



Science I 111 



The echinoderms were living at depths of 250-300 feet along an 
ancient shoreline on the edge of the continental shelf that had not 
been closely explored by biologists before. Pavvson is interested in 
the distribution, reproductive biology, and growth of these animals 
and is using time-lapse photography to study their movement 
around the reef. Specimens were captured for study in a collection 
device attached to the submersible's mechanical arm. 

The ] ohnson-Sea-Link dives were an extension of earlier under- 
water research Pawson had carried out in the Alvin submersible in 
deeper water east of New York and in the Caribbean in 1975 and 
1977. Through such dives Pawson has been able to shed new light 
on the biology of echinoderms living on the outer edge of the 
continental shelf and in the deep sea. 

Dr. Mary E. Rice, a curator in the Department of Invertebrate 
Zoology, continued her studies of the life histories of sipunculan 
worms, examining and comparing development of several species 
spawned in the laboratory. One species, Golfingia pellucida, was 
reared from egg to juvenile worm. This is the first time that any 
sipunculan with a planktotropic larval stage has been successfully 
reared through metamorphosis. Dr. Rice documented develop- 
mental changes by scanning electron microscopy, focusing on 
metamorphosis of the planktonic larva to the juvenile stage. Be- 
havioral changes and factors inducing metamorphosis, including 
substratum preference and presence of adults, were investigated. (On 
this work, see also the report of the Fort Pierce Bureau, above.) 

MINERAL SCIENCES 

Pumice ejected during the 1980 eruptions of Mount Saint Helens 
is under study by mnh volcanologist Dr. William G. Melson in an 
effort to enlarge understanding of the phases of major eruptions 
and the mechanisms that lead to them. Melson's examination shows 
that magma (molten rock) transformed into pumice in the erup- 
tions had a very high content of dissolved waters — a critical state 
that is believed to precede intense eruptions. Electron microprobe 
and petrographic microscope analysis detected the dissolved water 
in the abundant quantities of glass encapsulated in crystals grow- 
ing in the magmas of May 18 and 25 and July 22. 

If magma is rich in dissolved water, Melson explains, it requires 
high confining pressures. Failing that, the dissolved gas explosively 



112 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



separates from the magma — forming the lighter-than-water vol- 
canic froth called pumice. 

Melson has also analyzed pumice from the catastrophic eruptions 
of Mount Saint Helens that took place 180, 460, and 4,500 years 
ago, finding that these specimens are quite similar in makeup to 
the 1980 eruption. The evidence suggests that after long periods of 
repose — in this latest case about 130 years — the magma beneath 
the volcano becomes increasingly rich in dissolved water and is 
replenished by new rising pulses of magma from depths probably 
as deep as 100 kilometers. Once a certain bulk composition is 
reached, the overpressures apparently become so great that the 
volcano begins to deform. Eventually, as it fractures, the water-rich 
liquid is tapped, and a violent explosion caused by the separation 
of water vapor from the liquid then ensues. 

The recent discovery of a large number of meteorites in Antarc- 
tica has excited the scientific world, mnh meteorite curator Dr. 
Brian Mason is the scientist designated by the National Science 
Foundation (nsf) to make the initial petrographic studies of the 
Antarctica finds. 

Dr. Mason and colleague Dr. Ursula B. Marvin of the Smith- 
sonian Astrophysical Observatory have now published through the 
Smithsonian Institution Press a fifty-page catalogue of the first 
large United States meteorite discovery in Antarctica — more than 
three hundred specimens collected in 1977-78 near the Allan Hills 
in Victoria Land by an NSF-funded expedition led by Professor 
William Cassidy of the University of Pittsburgh. 

Eighty-five specimens of the 1977-78 collection, including most 
of those weighing over one hundred grams, are characterized in 
this study. The book is designed as a basic source for scientists 
throughout the world interested in further analysis of this un- 
precedented windfall of extraterrestial material. 

The Old Woman Meteorite, a rare iron and nickle specimen dis- 
covered in 1976 in the Old Woman Mountains of San Bernardino 
County, California, was cut for scientific study by the museum in 
1980 in an exacting four-month operation. The cut section — 15 per- 
cent of the meteorite's 6,070-pound bulk — disclosed an internal 
structure transition between two well-known meteorite types 
(octahedrite and hexahedrite), which mnh meteorite curator Roy S. 
Clarke, Jr., believes to be the first of its kind ever recorded. 



Science I 113 




Final touches are made on the reconstruction of Eryops, an early amphibian, by 
Leroy Glenn of nmnh's Vertebrate Preparation Lab. (Photo by Chip Clarke ) Below 
Meteorite curator Dr. Roy S. Clarke and Fred Jones of nmnh's Mineral Sciences 
cutting lab position the 6,070-pound bulk of the Old Woman Meteorite before cutting 
a slice of it for study. (Photo by Vic Krantz.) 




Samples of the small cut piece along with mnh research findings 
will be shared with scientists around the world. A broad range 
of cooperative research planned by Smithsonian scientists over the 
next two to three years will include studies of the meteorite's 
morphology, chemical composition, mineral distribution, metal- 
lography, and rare gas content. 

The decision to cut the meteorite was made in 1979 based upon 
the recommendations of a scientific panel whose views were 
solicited by Smithsonian scientists. Following the cutting, the 
major portion of the meteorite was mounted and shipped to the 
United States Bureau of Land Management Office, at Barstow, 
California, for exhibition. 

PALEOBIOLOGY 

mnh paleontologist Dr. Nicholas Hotton III, in a paper published in 
1980 by the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 
disputes the controversial new theory that portrays dinosaurs as 
warm blooded like living mammals. He argues that the reason 
dinosaurs became so much bigger than living animals as a group 
was to maintain constant body temperature. They sustained a 
high level of activity, which functioned as source of body heat, and 
therefore required no special mechanism for internal heat pro- 
duction like mammals have. This alternative mode of thermal 
physiology would have made life-styles available to dinosaurs that 
may well have been as exotic as their body form, the like of which 
no man has ever seen. 

Hotton says that although the limb bones of dinosaurs are 
evidence that they lived an active life, it is wrong to interpret the 
structure of these limbs as an adaptation to a mammal-like running 
gait. In fact, there is evidence that dinosaur locomotion — shaped 
by the animal's exotic thermal physiology — was very different 
from that of mammals. Hotton's studies of the hip bone of the 
dinosaur show that it is not ball-jointed like a mammal's hip bone. 
This makes it impossible for dinosaurs to have been agile of foot 
like mountain goats or fast runners like horses or camels. Instead, 
Hotton says, the hip joint and other aspects of the limb structure 
of the dinosaur — along with the animal's thermal physiology — 
primarily fit it for walking "slowly and steadily" over long dis- 
tances. 



Science I 115 



To gather enough food to maintain their body temperature dino- 
saurs would have had to wander continuously, and to Hotton the 
evidence suggests that they made a leisurely seasonal migration 
northward every year, traversing a couple of thousand miles over 
a period of four to six months before turning south. Thus dino- 
saur fossil remains that have turned up in the far north do not 
indicate where dinosaurs lived year around — but where these 
"happy wanderers" summered. 

mnh's Dr. Leo Hickey made a study in 1979-80 of the exotic 
fossil flora of Ellesmere Island. The island's barren landscape high 
in the Canadian Arctic is rich in fossils dating back from forty to 
eighty million years ago when the earth's climate was warm and 
wet, and lush forests extended north into the Arctic zone. 

Dr. Robert M. West of the Milwaukee Public Museum and Dr. 
Mary Dawson of the Carnegie Museum of Natural History have 
been studying unusual vertebrate fossils unearthed in the island's 
Eureka Sound Formation. Eager to obtain more data about the 
total ecosystem in which these animals lived, Dawson and West 
invited Hickey, a paleobiologist and expert on reconstructing North 
American floral environments, to go with them to Ellesmere in 
1979. Although the Ellesmere plants and trees have been sketchily 
known for over a century and were a cause of wonder for the early 
Arctic explorers, Hickey is among the first to apply modern tech- 
niques to identify them and decipher their environment. 

Hickey found that Ellesmere's ancient fossil forests were totally 
dominated by deciduous forms (conifers like dawn redwood and 
hardwoods including birch, maple, sycamore and Mexican elm), 
temperate-climate trees that today one finds growing in regions 
that experience some frosts. This seemed to conflict with the fact 
that remains of giant tortoises, alligators, and flying lemurs were 
preserved with the trees. Modern species of these animals cannot 
survive hard frosts and, assuming this was true of their ancestors, 
it seemed likely that the ancient forests of Ellesmere should have 
been dominated not by deciduous trees, but by warm-climate ever- 
green trees like palms, persimmons, and avocado relatives — as were 
forests further south in the same period. 

Hickey's explanation for this is that although the temperature 
may have been warm enough to support trees with evergreen 



116 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



leaves, the four to six months of polar darkness at Ellesmere each 
year would have made it impossible for them to survive. 

VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 

Dr. Storrs Olson, a paleobiologist in the Museum of Natural 
History's Bird Division, has identified a previously unknown fossil 
group of giant flightless penguinlike birds. This discovery was 
reported in a November 1980 article in Science magazine, co- 
authored with Yoshikazu Hasegawa, a colleague at Tokyo's Science 
Museum. 

Fossil remains of the birds were found by various collectors in 
Japan in the early 1970s and turned over to Hasegawa, who con- 
sulted Olson about the material. Olson's diagnosis was that the 
fossils belonged to the family Plotopteridae, a group described in 
1969 by Hildegarde Howard on the basis of a single fossil bone 
found in southern California. The Japanese material and a partial 
skeleton recently collected in the state of Washington now makes 
available enough material to provide a knowledge of most of the 
bird's skeletal elements. 

The penguinlike bird — probably measuring more than two 
meters from bill tip to tail tip — lived about thirty million years ago 
in areas bordering the North Pacific. It belongs in the order Peli- 
caniformes (an order that includes pelicans and cormorants) and 
most of the skeleton resembles members of that group. The wings 
and scapula, however, are closer in appearance and structure to 
those of a penguin, which belongs to the order Sphenisciformes. 

Olson believes the discovery marks one of the more impressive 
instances of convergent evolution in the fossil record, suggesting 
that if a bird wants to use its wings to move underwater, it even- 
tually will become penguinlike in appearance. 

mnh's mammalogist Dr. Charles O. Handley, a long-time resi- 
dent of Virginia, has a concerned interest in the wildlife of his 
state. Last year he published a status report on the state's wild 
mammals that points out that their number and variety continues 
to decline. Handley cites twenty-seven currently troubled or poten- 
tially troubled species of Virginia mammals. These range from the 
tiny pygmy shrew — the smallest North American mammal, weigh- 
ing only a fraction of an ounce — whose decline may have begun 
before man settled Virginia, to the mountain lion, an animal long 



Science I 117 



believed extinct in Virgina. This cat is being seen again now, after 
a lapse of almost a century, but its numbers are so low that it must 
be considered endangered. 

The status report is based on field notes, research in the litera- 
ture, and communications with game managers and other scien- 
tists. Whenever possible Handley proposes steps to protect and 
revitalize troubled mammal populations, no matter how obscure. 
An exception is the black rat, an alien resident of Virginia since 
colonial times. It is now in decline and Handley says its loss 
"would be mourned by very few persons." 

OFFICE OF EDUCATION 

Docent-led tours were provided to more than 40,000 visitors in the 
museum this year. The Discovery Room and Naturalist Center 
attracted more than 100,000 persons, while about 15,000 came to 
lectures or saw films in weekly programs. 

The renovation of the Discovery Room, funded by two grants, 
was completed. A grand opening and sixth anniversary party was 
held on March 5. The see-through exhibit wall, new carpet and 
color scheme, and several additions to the touchable materials were 
highlights of the redecorated exhibit area. This innovative, par- 
ticipatory exhibit has often been used as a model for similar exhibit 
areas by other museums. 

The Year of the Coast was observed in the museum with a suc- 
cessful and well-attended series of lectures and films each Friday 
and Saturday, in Baird Auditorium. 

Several gifts to the Naturalist Center made possible further 
development of the laboratory/classroom and the audiovisual 
center. Desks, lights, stools, video equipment, and a camera lucida 
for scientific illustration have increased the variety of services 
offered to amateurs and scholars in the Naturalist Center. Attend- 
ance increased during the summer months as visitors discovered 
the center and the resources it offers. 

An Outreach Program, directed to special audiences unable to 
come to the museum, brought a variety of natural history programs 
to the elderly, hospitalized, and institutionalized. This program, 
funded for another year, will be expanded to include joint pro- 
grams with the National Zoo and the Museum of African Art in 
1980-81. 



118 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



PUBLIC SYMPOSIUMS 



Mount Saint Helens 



In response to the intense interest in the Mount Saint Helens 
eruption, mnh volcanologists on June 2, 1980 held two illustrated 
public briefings on the events at the volcano. Both sessions — noon 
and evening — drew near capacity crowds to the 500-seat Baird 
Auditorium. 

Chairing the proceedings was museum director and volcanologist 
Richard S. Fiske. He and colleagues William G. Melson, Tom Sim- 
kin, and Lindsay McLelland reviewed, interpreted, and answered 
questions about the eruptive activity taking place at Mount Saint 
Helens. At the evening session, Dr. Robert I. Tilling, Supervisor 
of the United States Geological Survey's volcanological efforts at 
Mount Saint Helens, joined Smithsonian scientists. 

Plains Indians 

Sixteen prominent American anthropologists and historians 
gathered at the museum's Baird Auditorium in April 1980 for a 
public symposium on the archeology and ethnology of the Plains 
Indians. The meeting honored John C. Ewers and Waldo R. Wedel, 
two distinguished pioneers in Plains studies. Both men are emeritus 
scholars in the museum's Department of Anthropology. 

The symposium was organized by Douglas H. Ubelaker and 
Herman J. Viola of the museum's Department of Anthropology. 
Among the participants were Mildred Wedel, Museum Research 
Associate; James Hanson, Native American Museum Training Co- 
ordinator with the Smithsonian's Office of Museum Programs; 
Dennis Stanford, Museum Archeologist; and George Frisson, 
Smithsonian Regents' Fellow and head of the Department of 
Anthropology at the University of Wyoming. 

Building Improvements 

Handicapped visitors to the museum now have better access 
through a series of ramps and automated doors installed in the 
spring of 1980 at the main Constitution Avenue entrance. The 
work, overseen by museum Building Manager Jerome Conlon, in- 
volved construction of one ramp leading to an automated outside 



Science I 119 



door and a second ramp leading to an automated inside door with 
access to the lobby. Changes were also made at the museum's Mall 
doors to improve general visitor access. Two new sets of doorways 
were cut — one set on each side of the existing doorway — to double 
the capacity of this heavily used entrance. 

HANDBOOK OF NORTH AMERICAN INDIANS 

The cultures and histories of the contemporary Pueblo peoples are 
the focus of Southwest, the third volume in the Smithsonian's 
encyclopedic Handbook of North American Indians, published in 
April 1980 (the first two volumes, California and Northeast were 
issued in 1978). Southwest includes a chapter on the history and 
unique character of each of the modern Pueblo settlements. 

Work continued during 1980 on Subarctic, the next volume in 
the series, scheduled for publication early in 1981. This volume 
focuses on the significance of the natural environment in affecting 
major aspects of the Indian culture of Canada and interior Alaska. 
The complete encyclopedia, published under the general editorship 
of mnh's Dr. William C. Sturtevant, will consist of twenty volumes. 

SMITHSONIAN OCEANOCRAPHIC SORTING CENTER 

The Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center received several 
important collections of marine biological specimens over the past 
year. Coastal zone plants and animals from northern Australia, 
New Guinea, the Moluccas, and the southern Philippines were 
collected aboard the research vessel Alpha Helix by staff members 
Frank Ferrari and Gordon Hendler with Dr. Bruce Collette, of the 
National Museum Fisheries Service Systematic Laboratory. Col- 
lections of marine fishes from Halmahera Island made for the 
Oceanographic Sorting Center by Yale University anthropologists, 
and marine algae from Palawan Island, Philippines, collected by 
Ernani Menez, complemented the Alpha Helix collection. 

Staff members Jerome Finan, Victor Haley, and Lang Ong were 
invited to participate in several cruises to the Bering Sea conducted 
by the Northwest Fisheries Laboratory in Seattle. Benthic marine 
invertebrates and fishes captured during the bottom trawling oper- 
ations were shipped to the Sorting Center for distribution and 
study. 

Neotropical collections were made from the Belize Barrier Reef 



120 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



by Gordon Hendler and Barbara Littman, and from the mouth of 
the Orinoco River, Venezuela, for the center by Drs. John Lund- 
berg and Jonathan Baskin aboard the research vessel Eastward. Dr. 
Lundberg and research associate Dr. Edith Marsh spent the sum- 
mer here working on the Orinocan fishes. 

SCIENTIFIC EVENT ALERT NETWORK 

The devastating eruption of Mount Saint Helens generated an un- 
precedented demand for information from the museum's Scientific 
Event Alert Network (sean), which publishes a monthly bulletin 
of geophysical and biological events for distribution to the world's 
scientific community. The interdisciplinary communication at the 
1979 SEAN-sponsored conference on the eruption of Soufriere of 
Saint Vincent contributed substantially to broadening the research 
effort on Mount Saint Helens, particularly in the use of satellites 
and high-altitude aircraft to monitor and sample the ash cloud. 

In 1980, sean began a cooperative program with the National 
Marine Fisheries Service to develop an extensive marine turtle 
salvage and reporting network for the United States Atlantic coast. 
Monitoring of strandings of marine mammals was substantially 
expanded and sean built an additional network of correspondents 
to report on deaths of the endangered sea otter, sean also reported 
the discovery of a giant squid on the beach at Plum Island, 
Massachusetts, in February 1980, only the fourth United States 
find of this little-known species. This rare specimen is now under 
study by mnh's Dr. Clyde Roper. 

CUBAN EXCHANGE 

The first three mnh scientists to begin research projects in Cuba 
following an April 1979 Smithsonian-Cuban Academy of Science 
cooperative exchange agreement were Drs. Robert Read, Storrs 
Olson, and Porter Kier. In an October 1979 visit to Cuba, Read 
collected palms at type localities in collaboration with Cuban 
botanists Onaney Muniz; Olson went into the field with the 
National Zoo's Dr. Eugene Morton to search for rare species of 
endemic birds; and Kier worked in Havana on a large collection of 
fossil sea urchins, one of the most important collections of its 
kind in the world. Reciprocal visits of Cuban scientists to mnh are 
scheduled. 



Science I YZ\ 



CHINA EXCHANGES 

mnh curators Drs. Thomas Soderstrom, Don R. Davis, William 
B. Trousdale, J. Laurence Barnard, and Richard E. Grant were 
members of a delegation from the Smithsonian that visited the 
People's Republic of China in November 1979 to see Chinese scien- 
tific institutes and museums and discuss exchanges and joint proj- 
ects in biology, archeology, and museology. All five scientists were 
able to contact specialists in their area and discuss possible future 
collaborative research projects. Reciprocal visits by Chinese dele- 
gations have followed. In May 1980 Dr. Yin Hongfu, a specialist 
on fossil mollusks, became the first distinguished scholar from 
the People's Republic of China to study at mnh for an extended 
period of time. He was selected for this honor by his colleagues 
in the Paleontological Society of China. His one-year United States 
study trip is sponsored by the Ministry of Education of the 
People's Republic of China. 

COLLECTION INVENTORY 

The collection inventory at the National Museum of Natural 
History is on schedule. Upwards of 400,000 records were compiled 
in 1979-80, representing a count of over a million items in 
storage. The total computerized data base will consist of nearly 
two million records by the end of the 1979—80 year and will con- 
tinue to grow by 400-600 thousand records per year thereafter. 
Completed or near completion are records for the archeology/ 
ethnology objects, certain families and orders of insects and marine 
invertebrates, the Cambrian and Ordovician stratigraphic series of 
fossils, the egg and nest collection, the fish tank collections, pri- 
mates, and the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center col- 
lection. All of these collections fall into a priority category because 
they are valuable specimens, types, or objects scheduled for trans- 
fer to the Museum Support Center. Steady progress is being made 
towards completing, not later than 1984, inventories on all col- 
lections that fall into these priority categories. 

National Zoological Park 

Fiscal year 1980 has seen the successful continuation of all pro- 
grams of exotic animal management, exhibition, breeding, research, 



122 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



conservation, and animal health. The construction and improve- 
ment programs continue apace. The support services strive actively 
to respond to all the National Zoo's needs. Proper care of the 
animals depends on many different talents working cooperatively 
together. 

ANIMAL COLLECTION AND EXHIBITS 

In exhibitry, the opening of the new North American Mammals 
Exhibit on May 4, 1980, represents the culmination of several 
years of planning and construction. It is also another milestone in 
the redevelopment and modernization program for the National 
Zoo. 

This North American Mammals Exhibit consists of a meander- 
ing walk through the woods, down the little valley (between the 
old bear exhibits and the police station) that connects the lower 
part of Beaver Valley and the new bear exhibits with the center 
part of the Zoo. Exhibited in the spacious, modern enclosures are 
pumas, jaguars, raccoons, bobcats, a hawk exhibit, kit foxes, 
martens, skunks, lesser pandas, and prairie dogs. The kit foxes 
showed their pleasure in their larger quarters by breeding and 
producing, as far as the staff now knows, the fourth litter of pups 
in captivity. 

Special labels have been made for the trees, wild animals, and 
birds that may be seen in the area. This exhibit emphasizes North 
American animals, the lesser panda being the exception. It is a low- 
key but very pleasant and interesting display. 

The almost completed new Ape House should be occupied and 
open in the early part of fiscal year 1981. The Small Mammal 
Building will be totally renovated over the next eighteen months. 
The animals from this building have all been sent to Front Royal 
or to the old mechanical shops holding area. The orangutans and 
gorillas are in the holding areas of the new Ape House pending 
decoration of their enclosures and the public opening. 

At a facility in Louisiana, in a cooperative breeding program 
with the New York Zoological Society, our National Zoo's over- 
forty-year-old female Chinese alligator bred and produced eighteen 
viable young. A narrow-nosed crocodile which Dr. Mann brought 
back from his 1940 Liberia expedition is on a cooperative breeding 
loan to the Miami Zoo. For her first time she has produced a clutch 



Science I \T2> 



of eggs; these have not yet hatched. The Masai giraffe group 
which came to the National Zoo in 1961 produced in August 1980 
its nineteenth giraffe colt. The colt, a male, was named David after 
Dr. David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science. This is the 
thirty-second birth among the giraffes since the National Zoo 
first exhibited this species in 1937. 

There have been a gratifying number of hoofstock babies born 
throughout the year. At Front Royal the bactrian camel herd was 
blessed with five foals. The Pere David deer and scimitar-horned 
oryx at Front Royal continue to produce well. Also, the National 
Zoo's cooperative program for the Przewalski horses with the 
Minnesota State Zoo resulted in foals. 

On the day before the move to the new Ape House, Pensi, the 
female orangutan, gave birth to a female baby. This is a second 
baby born to the Zoo's captive-born-and-reared male and female 
orangutans. The Zoo staff is very proud to have another true 
second-generation-captive-born orangutan. The baby, named 
Indah, has been removed from her mother for handrearing. Indah 
is now at the San Diego Zoo to be reared with other young 
orangutans. She and the first second-generation baby now in New 
Mexico will be returned to the National Zoo when the youngsters 
are old enough to integrate socially with the group and when the 
building is able to be fully occupied. 

All animals in the Reptile House have been moved to the old 
mechanical shops building while their house undergoes complete 
renovation. We hope for public opening of the renovated Reptile 
House in the third quarter of fiscal year 1981. For the third year 
the Emerald Tree boa has been successfully bred and the young 
reared. 

The birds continue to breed well although the duck-rearing pro- 
gram has been slow this year because the renovation and improve- 
ments to the duck ponds interfered with the breeding season. 
There have been many birds hatched at both Rock Creek and 
Front Royal. The most interesting gain was the hatching and 
rearing of two satin bowerbird chicks. As far as the Zoo staff has 
been able to determine, this is the first captive breeding outside of 
Australia. 

The breeding and rearing of the short-tailed bat — first started 
several years ago in the zoological research laboratories — continues 



124 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



on exhibition and is now well into the fourth generation. Twenty- 
two batlings have been born this year. 

At Front Royal there were two parent-raised litters of bush dogs. 
The male bush dog participates in the rearing. 

This year saw the completion of a three-year project of erecting 
15 V2 miles of perimeter fence. 

The golden marmoset breeding and study programs (mentioned 
in previous reports) continue to progress well. During the past 
decade, the National Zoo has had over 170 marmoset babies born. 
They have been shipped to many zoos in this country and over- 
seas. At the present time our Zoo has golden marmoset cooperative 
breeding programs with fourteen zoos. This year we were fortunate 
to receive five new golden marmosets from the Biological Bank, 
Tijuca Park, Rio de Janeiro. This addition of new blood will be very 
beneficial to the breeding program and is a continuation of close 
cooperation with Brazilian colleagues. 

The breeding program of the lesser panda continues to progress 
successfully with eight litters and twelve babies this year. There 
have been over fifty lesser pandas born here and at the eight zoos 
in the United States and overseas where our Zoo has cooperative 
breeding programs. 

The National Zoo is committed to cooperative breeding pro- 
grams with other zoos. The National Zoo has over two-hundred 
animals loaned out for breeding purposes and about an equal 
number of animals have come to the National Zoo from other zoos. 
The animals we are privileged to have in the National Zoo must be 
considered as part of the national and international collection of 
captive animals. To sustain captive breeding in zoos, every effort is 
made to cooperate with colleagues in breeding and rearing exotic 
animals. 

Ham, the astronaut chimpanzee, in September 1980 left Wash- 
ington on a long-term loan to the North Carolina Zoological Park, 
Asheboro, North Carolina. The National Zoo's breeding and ex- 
hibition program does not include plans for the chimpanzee. It is 
best for Ham to be introduced to a group of his fellow chimps since 
they are social animals. The facilities at Asheboro are excellent and 
Ham will have the best opportunity there for becoming a socially 
integrated chimpanzee. 

Because of kidney degeneration, the euthanasia of Matilda, 



Science I 125 



matriarch of the National Zoo's breeding group of pygmy hippo- 
potamuses, took place this year. Matilda had originally come to the 
Zoo from Dr. Mann's 1940 Liberia expedition. The last of her 
nine babies was born in 1965. 

Another sad loss occurring in 1980 was the death of Raji, the 
seventeen-year-old female rhinoceros, from pyloric occlusion re- 
sulting in impaction and bloat. She was the mother of the first 
Indian rhinoceros born in the Western Hemisphere; her son is now 
on cooperative breeding loan to the New York Zoological Society. 
Postmortem examination revealed a large (about the size of a 
soccer ball) ovarian cyst, explaining why she herself never bred 
again. 

As for the giant pandas, the continuing saga of attempted mating 
goes on. This year the approach has been different. When the fe- 
male, Ling-Ling, came into estrus, on May 15, 1980, she and her 
would-be mate, Hsing-Hsing, were placed together for two days. 
Their performance was a repeat of previous years' vocalization, 
unsuccessful mountings, and the usual amount of fighting. Having 
predicted that this year's breeding attempt would be a repeat of 
past performances, Zoo staff proceeded with a new plan. 

Hsing-Hsing was immobilized on Saturday, May 17, and electro- 
ejaculated. The semen collected was not as good as the collection 
made in January 1979. After Hsing-Hsing woke up, in about 
twenty minutes (it being the practice of the Zoo not to have two 
animals immobilized at the same time), Ling-Ling was then im- 
mobilized and inseminated with half of the semen. The next day 
the procedure was repeated. Ling-Ling evidenced no adverse or 
unusual reactions to her experiences and she went out of heat on 
schedule. 

Chinese colleagues had provided information on their techniques 
used in two out of five successful artificial inseminations of the 
giant panda. These techniques had been slightly modified for par- 
ticular time and circumstances at the National Zoo. However, the 
possibilities and probabilities of a successful pregnancy are un- 
known because of the many unknown variables when breeding a 
new species for the first time. Details of the male and female anat- 
omy are not well understood. The hormonal levels of both ani- 
mals, the production of semen and the ova, are also not known. 

Despite the low probability of having a successful birth, every 



126 / Smithsonian Year 1980 





In continuing attempts to produce giant panda offspring at the National Zoo, Ling- 
Ling was artificially inseminated in May, though by October it became evident to 
television audience and Zoo staff that there would be no baby panda in 1980. On the 
brighter side, the ruffed lemur (right) was successfully bred at the Zoo and is grow- 
ing rapidly. Below. The inviting trail through the North American Mammals Exhibit 
is representative of modernization under way at the Zoo. This is the only area where 
vegetation is labeled. 










\ , 



■" -d 



<■•**. 



- . - ?9v»4.* 






',^'- " 



effort was made to prepare for the birth. A cubbing den was 
specially equipped. The exercise room for Ling-Ling was pre- 
pared. Remote control television cameras with recording monitors 
were set up. A monitor was put in the Education/Administration 
building lobby so the public could see the female panda off of 
exhibit. If there were a birth the public would be able to see the 
baby. 

Starting on September 20, round-the-clock television watches 
were instituted and carried on until October 1 — when it became 
clear that this was not to be the year of the panda and that the 
nation was not to be blessed with a baby panda in 1980 despite all 
dedicated efforts! 

This year, nonetheless, ruffed lemur babies were born to a pair 
we received from the San Diego Zoo. This is the first time this 
beautiful lemur has been exhibited or born at the National Zoo. It 
is interesting to watch the very rapid growth and development of 
the offspring as compared to some of the more advanced primates 
such as the macques or gibbons. 

CONSTRUCTION 

Three necessary but unspectacular construction projects were com- 
pleted this year. First, new water and sewer lines were added to 
the bird ponds below the restaurant. Since construction of these 
ponds during wpa days there had been one water inlet at the upper 
end and one drain at the lower end. There are now water inlets 
and drains to each pond. New plantings were also added to the 
area. The cement and rock work were pointed up and restored to 
improved condition — although to the general public things may 
look exactly as they did before. 

The second project was construction of a new public toilet 
facility at the head of Beaver Valley. This building is necessary be- 
cause of the increased visitor use of this area with the opening of 
the seals and sea lions exhibition. In the third project, the analyti- 
cal nutritional laboratory was constructed and furnished for the 
staff nutritionist in the old shops building. 

PERSONNEL 

Mr. Gaetano G. Calise, Jr., an engineer with long experience in con- 
struction, planning, and facilities management, was hired October 



128 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



1979 as assistant director for support services. Dr. Edwin Gould, 
zoologist, was hired September 1980 as curator of the Department 
of Mammalogy. He will have under his direction and charge all 
the mammals on exhibition. In June 1980 Dr. Donald L. Janssen 
entered on duty as assistant veterinarian. Dr. John Seidensticker, 
who has been associated with National Zoo on the Nepal tiger proj- 
ect, was hired as staff ecologist. 

The administrative office of the National Zoo developed a year- 
long orientation program for new employees. There is intensive 
involvement in orienting and training new staff members when 
they first arrive; then, throughout the year, there is continual con- 
tact with the new employee to assure a thorough understanding of 
the job, the federal personnel system, and the organizational sys- 
tem at the National Zoo. This new program benefits the employees 
and the Zoo although it will be several years before the results are 
evident. 

RESEARCH 

The programs in scientific research and conservation areas proceed, 
as reported above. The tiger study in Nepal is phasing out. Results 
from the first six years are in the process of write-up. The Vene- 
zuelan field study continues, as do studies on the giant Sulawesi 
civet in Indonesia. In September 1980, three staff members from 
the Department of Conservation, Front Royal, Virginia, traveled 
to Sulawesi for longer field studies, trapping, and observations. 

A new research project started this year by the staff ecologist 
is a several-year ecological survey of the flora and fauna at the 
conservation and research center, Front Royal, Virginia. Tagging, 
radio collaring, repeated trapping, and observations will be used 
to assess the wild animal population densities of the area. The 
relationships of the native animals to each other and the flora, as 
well as their relationship to the exotic animals, will be studied. 
John Seidensticker is the principal investigator. 

Two books were published by the Smithsonian Institution Press 
with financial assistance from the Friends of the National Zoo. 
First was Migrant Birds in the Neotropics, edited by Allen Keast 
and Eugene Morton. This book is based on the seminar held 
October 1977 at Front Royal. The second book published was 
Vertebrate Ecology in the Northern Neotropics, edited by John 



Science I 129 



Eisenberg. In the popular vein, Smithsonian Exposition Books pub- 
lished A Zoo for All Seasons. This is a factual but popularly 
written account of the present National Zoological Park. 

In August 1980 the National Zoo sponsored a symposium on 
"Current Trends in the Study of Mammalian Behavior." Twenty- 
five invited participants came not only from the United States but 
also Canada, Australia, Great Britain, Germany, and France. The 
results will be published in the future. 

The director of the National Zoo, Dr. T. H. Reed, traveled to the 
People's Republic of China in November 1979 to participate in 
the Smithsonian Institution conferences on cooperative scientific 
programs. Dr. Katherine Ralls's study in inbreeding, as mentioned 
last year, was published in Science, and continues to have an ex- 
tremely provocative effect throughout scientific circles and the 
zoo world. She continues her research into this important aspect 
of animal life. 

FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO 

The Friends of the National Zoo (fonz) have continued with their 
programs of support in education and science. The guide program 
for school children continues to provide a worthwhile service to 
younger visitors. The fourth-grade school programs, which have 
been developed jointly with the Office of Education, National Zoo- 
logical Park, continue to be an exciting experience for children. 
The busing program goes well and is ever more popular with the 
children and school systems. 

This year the Friends of the National Zoo negotiated a renewal 
of the contracts with the Smithsonian Institution for operation of 
the gift and food concessions as well as operation for the Institu- 
tion of the parking concession located at the Zoo. 

The National Zoological Park staff appreciates very much the 
support of the Friends of the National Zoo in the intern and post- 
doctoral programs as well as support of the Zoo's various scientific 
programs both here and overseas. Many of these projects would not 
have been possible without this monetary support. The contribu- 
tions and support provided by the Friends of the National Zoo to 
the National Zoological Park's programs and projects benefit the 
Zoo not only in a monetary way but also in the way of time pro- 
vided by a group of well-trained, dedicated, and talented volunteers. 



130 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Most of the FONZ-generated revenues were derived from sales of 
food and merchandise and from public parking services. Financial 
information for calendar year 1979 is provided in detail below. In 
addition, a percentage of the restaurant and parking concessions is 
available directly to the Smithsonian for the benefit of the National 
Zoo and is reported as income in the Financial Report of the 
Smithsonian Institution. 



FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO 

Financial Report for the Period 
January 1— December 31, 1979 

[In $l,000s] 







Net increase/ 


Net 




(decrease) to 


revenue 


Expense 


fund balance 



FUND BALANCE @ 1/1/79 .... 
SERVICES 

Membership $ 173 

Publications 50 

Education 1 28 

Zoo Services 2 2,177 

Totals $2,428 

FUND BALANCE (a) 12/31/79 . . 



$2,421 



$ 717 



154 


$ 19 


68 


(18) 


337 


(309) 


1,862 3 


315 



$ 



$ 724 4 



1 Excludes services worth an estimated $140,839 contributed by volunteers to FONZ. 

2 Includes gift shop, parking services, and food services. 

3 Includes $147,152 paid during this period to the Smithsonian under contractual 
arrangement. 

* Net worth, including fixed assets, to be used for the benefit of educational and 
scientific work at the National Zoological Park. 



Science I 131 



Office of Biological Conservation 

The Office of Biological Conservation (obc) has continued to serve 
as the focal point in formulating many of the Institution's re- 
sponses to requests for scientific information and advice on aspects 
of biological and environmental conservation in the United States 
and abroad. 

In the interest of developing environmental consciousness 
among students and the general public, the director of obc pre- 
sented an illustrated lecture on "The Plight of the World's Van- 
ishing Flora" at the thirty-fourth annual Williamsburg Symposium, 
and the coordinator lectured to the Smithsonian's Ecology Docents 
on the subject of "Endangered Plant Species and Habitat Destruc- 
tion in the United States." The office has surveyed the status of 
existing environmental education programs within the Smithsonian 
bureaux, and is now considering methods of increasing coverage 
to the public. For the scholarly community, the director presented 
a lecture on "Assessment of Threatened Plant Species in the United 
States" at the Symposium on Biological Aspects of Rare Plant Con- 
servation held in Cambridge, England, which included recom- 
mendations for standardized national assessment criteria used to 
determine the endangered or threatened status of plant popula- 
tions. 

A listing of the recommended endangered and threatened plant 
species of the United States that are currently being cultivated in 
United States botanic gardens and arboreta was produced by the 
obc and submitted to the Botanic Gardens Conservation Co- 
ordinating Body of the Threatened Plants Committee (iucn) as 
part of a worldwide effort to inventory the material of these 
species available for research on breeding mechanisms, pollinators, 
and other factors. The obc also participated in the United States 
Interagency Task Force on Tropical Forests, which produced a 
report on "The World's Tropical Forests: A Policy, Strategy, and 
Program for the United States." A united federal program to com- 
bat tropical deforestation is now being planned under the aegis of 
the newly created Presidential Task Force on Global Resources and 
Environment. 

The director presented testimony before the Senate Subcom- 
mittee on Resource Protection, Committee on Environment and 



132 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Public Works, in support of the International Wildlife Resource 
Conservation Act of 1980, proposed by Senator Chaffee, which 
confronts the need to integrate wildlife conservation activities with 
the socioeconomic conditions of underdeveloped countries in order 
to ensure a balanced development of resources for human needs. 
The devastating deforestation sweeping through Southeast Asia 
prompted the obc's preparation of a situation report describing the 
exploitation of tropical forests and associated threats to the environ- 
ment in Sabah (North Borneo). The state of Gujarat, India, has also 
been the subject of a report concerning the conservation of natural 
resources and the alleviation of food and fuel problems in this 
semiarid region. The office has been involved in planning a co- 
operative project between the Smithsonian Institution and the 
government of India concerning conservation of gene pools of 
endangered Indian plant species, particularly those of potential 
economic and medicinal importance. The obc is similarly engaged 
in activities concerning the role of conservation in the develop- 
ment of the Sinai Peninsula. 

The Smithsonian Institution Threatened Plants Committee (iucn) 
Latin America Program will ultimately provide data on the status of 
endangered, vulnerable, and rare plant species in Mexico and Cen- 
tral and South America. A bibliography of Central American taxo- 
nomic studies, and lists of candidate species for all Central American 
countries, have been completed by the office to date. 

The obc has continued its support for the Charles Darwin 
Foundation for the Galapagos Isles and has assumed responsibility 
for assisting the newly formed Seychelles Islands Foundation in 
supporting conservation and science efforts on Aldabra. As in the 
past, the office has assisted in selection of the annual recipient 
of the Edward W. Browning Award for conserving the environ- 
ment. 



Office of Fellowships and Grants 

The Office of Fellowships and Grants (ofg) acts as an Institution 
center to facilitate and encourage scholarship at the Smithsonian 
in fields of art, history, and science. It serves as a focus for Smith- 



Science I 133 



sonian staff and the public regarding academic activities both 
within and outside the Institution. At present the Office of Fellow- 
ships and Grants concentrates on the development and manage- 
ment of two major activities: Academic Programs and the Smith- 
sonian Foreign Currency Program. 

The Academic Programs at the Smithsonian Institution support 
visiting students and scholars. They provide opportunities for 
research to be conducted at a Smithsonian facility or under the 
auspices of a Smithsonian staff member. Awards are offered at the 
undergraduate, graduate, and professional levels. 

The Smithsonian also reinforces the quality of its research and 
extends the reach of its scholarly concerns through the Smith- 
sonian Foreign Currency Program (sfcp), which supports grants to 
the Smithsonian and outside institutions for research in a limited 
number of foreign countries. It is particularly responsible for 
strengthening the international scholarly network of which the 
Institution is a part. 

ACADEMIC PROGRAMS 

Academic programs at the Smithsonian complement those at uni- 
versities because of the unusual nature of the Institution. The 
national collections and the curators who study them are un- 
paralleled resources, not available at universities and essential to 
much scholarly research. In fact, university education is based 
primarily on the printed word or the study of artifact reproductions. 
At the Smithsonian historical and anthropological objects, original 
works of art, natural history specimens, living animals, plants, and 
entire ecosystems are directly available for study. The combination 
of class study and field work significantly enhances the educational 
experience in scholarly training — and the breadth of field op- 
portunities at the Smithsonian is unmatched. 

The Office of Fellowships and Grants responds to the Smith- 
sonian's needs for participation in academic activities. The office is 
also responsible to the student for providing that he or she will 
benefit to the greatest extent possible from a fellowship or intern- 
ship experience. This year the ofg, cognizant of these responsibili- 
ties, has undertaken special efforts to fulfill them. 

The Office of Fellowships and Grants administered a variety of 
academic appointments in 1980. The program of Smithsonian pre-. 



134 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



and postdoctoral fellowships, begun in 1965, continued this year 
and sixty-five fellowships were awarded during 1979-80. These 
appointees pursue a program of advanced research training at the 
Institution's bureaux for six months to one year. Research topics for 
this year's Smithsonian Fellows included studies on domestic views 
of rural America, 1865-1920; archeology of lower Cheyenne River 
sites; scent mark communication in golden lion tamarins; struc- 
tural study of new vestimentiferan from the geothermal vents of 
the Galapagos Rift region; and Anglo-American artists in 
Worcestershire, England, 1885-92. 

The visiting graduate student program had ten participants for 
ten-week tenures during the summer of 1980. Graduate students 
studied subjects ranging from the images of the goddess Hsi Wang 
Mu in medieval Chinese art to Theodore Roosevelt's Smithsonian 
African Expedition. In addition, support of short-term visitors was 
continued by the office. Thirty-one visitors spent from one week 
to one month at the Institution during the past year studying col- 
lections or conducting research. 

The new Regents Fellowship Program had its first Fellows at 
the Smithsonian in 1979-80. At the Smithsonian Astrophysical 
Observatory, Dr. Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, the world's lead- 
ing mathematical astrophysicist, worked on a new book on general 
relativity. Dr. George Frison, a Paleo-Indian specialist and a leading 
practitioner of experimental archeology, analyzed, with anthro- 
pologists of the National Museum of Natural History, materials 
from the important Agate Basin site in Wyoming. Collaborating 
with specialists at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 
evolutionary biologist Dr. Robert Trivers was summarizing ten 
years' work on social evolution to present a single general system of 
social theory with which to view patterns across many species. One 
of the most distinguished scholars in the field of Indian Mughal 
painting, Dr. Milo Cleveland Beach, studied the outstanding col- 
lection of Indian Mughal paintings held by the Freer Gallery of Art. 
An exhibition of these works is planned for 1981. 

In May 1980, Drs. Chandrasekhar, Frison, and Trivers partici- 
pated in the first Regents Fellows Colloquium, The Pursuit of 
Knowledge, and presented a discussion of their life in research. 

In 1980 several new appointments for visiting scientists and 
scholars were made by various Smithsonian bureaux in cooperation 



Science I 135 



with the Office of Fellowships and Grants. The Harold P. Stern 
Memorial Fund of the Freer Gallery of Art supported two visiting 
Japanese scholars for the study of Japanese collections at the gallery. 
The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (sao) made an ap- 
pointment for a visiting scientist to study stellar spectroscopy at its 
Cambridge, Massachusetts, facility. The Radiation Biology Lab- 
oratory (rbl) appointed a visiting scholar from Israel to conduct a 
one-year research project on the involvement of plant hormones in 
the flowering process. Similar awards to other scientists will con- 
tinue to be made by rbl and sao. This year the Conservation 
Analytical Laboratory (cal) established a new fellowship offering 
for a visiting scientist to pursue a problem in the conservation of 
artifacts with the assistance of the cal staff. The first such appoint- 
ment was made in 1980 for a scientist to study the effect of alkaline 
rinse on cellulosic textile materials. 

Several Smithsonian bureaux also provided direct continued sup- 
port for fellowship offerings established in earlier years. In 1979- 
80 the National Air and Space Museum, National Collection of 
Fine Arts, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Radiation 
Biology Laboratory, Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental 
Studies, Fort Pierce Bureau, Conservation Analytical Laboratory, 
National Zoological Park, and International Environmental Science 
Program offered additional support for fellowship appointments. 

Activities in the Smithsonian Fellowship Program this year in- 
cluded a survey of past predoctoral and postdoctoral fellows and 
the first survey taken of past Smithsonian visiting graduate stu- 
dents and interns. The information from these surveys will be 
compiled into a report in 1981. Included in the surveys was an 
invitation from the National Associate Program for past fellows to 
participate in the regional Associates' programs presented by Smith- 
sonian staff members throughout the United States. Four past 
Smithsonian Fellows will be featured speakers for these Associate 
programs during the next year. 

The Office of Fellowships and Grants has made a concerted effort 
this year to work with individual museums and bureaux to 
strengthen the fellowship program within the host organizations. 
The National Museum of History and Technology (mht) has already 
begun an orientation and seminar program for incoming 1980—81 
Smithsonian Fellows. In addition, mht and the Tropical Research 



136 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Institute have appointed staff members to act as academic liaison 
with the ofg. 

A joint program in American Studies was initiated with Smith 
College for a trial period of two years. Beginning in the fall seven 
senior-year students from Smith College will spend a semester in 
residence at the Smithsonian. They will conduct research projects 
in American cultural history, art history, and the history of science 
and technology, under the supervision of Institution staff members. 
In addition, the students will attend two seminar courses taught by 
Smithsonian staff. The topics for 1980 are American material cul- 
ture, 1775-1825, and twentieth-century American biography. 

ofg assisted in developing two additional internship opportuni- 
ties in 1980. A one-time internship appointment was made for an 
undergraduate student to study decorative arts at the Cooper- 
Hewitt Museum. The student's work revolved around the Cooper- 
Hewitt portion of the development of a Smithsonian finders' guide 
to the decorative arts. Also, in response to the increasing interest 
in internships by staff members, the National Air and Space 
Museum (nasm) began a program of internships with two under- 
graduate and one postgraduate summer appointments. These interns 
were placed in the Education Services Division and the Department 
of Space Sciences and Exploration, respectively, nasm will continue 
to provide support for such internships in 1981 and expects to 
accept interns for academic quarter and summer projects. 

The National Collection of Fine Arts and the Hirshhorn Museum 
and Sculpture Garden provided support for the continuation of 
their summer undergraduate internship programs. The Cooper- 
Hewitt Museum also appointed students for internships under the 
Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellowship Program, and the Division of 
Performing Arts supported a visiting summer student. The Smith- 
sonian Archives again appointed a student from Gallaudet College 
to study archival management for the summer. The Office of Fellow- 
ships and Grants itself placed twenty-two students under the Open 
Study Program in 1979-80. Their projects included studies in 
mammalogy, registration and cataloguing, American brass and 
copperware, museum accessioning, scientific writing, grasses, 
museum security, anthropological and folklife photographic ar- 
chives, museum access for the handicapped, and production methods 
and technical operations for performing arts events. 



Science I 137 



Another important step in the area of internships was taken by 
the office during the summer of 1980 when it conducted an exten- 
sive survey of the Smithsonian's wide range of internship activities. 
Interns come to the Institution through a number of arrangements 
which vary greatly. It was apparent that information was needed 
about the scale and range of these appointments in order to take 
stock of the current situation and begin to develop uniform Smith- 
sonian policy. 

SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM 

The Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program (sfcp) awards grants 
to support the research interests of American institutions, includ- 
ing the Smithsonian, in those countries in which the United States 
holds special blocked currencies derived largely from past sales of 
surplus agricultural commodities under Public Law 480. The pro- 
gram is active in countries in which the Treasury Department de- 
clares United States holdings of these currencies to be in excess of 
normal federal requirements, including, in 1980, Burma, Egypt, 
Guinea, India, and Pakistan. Research projects are moving toward 
conclusion under program support in the former excess-currency 
countries of Poland, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, and Yugoslavia. 

This year projects ranged through many disciplines, including 
archeological mapping of a Theban necropolis; operation of satellite 
tracking stations in India and Egypt; paleontological investigations 
in Egypt, Pakistan, and Burma; behavioral observation of langurs 
in India; and study of puppetry traditions in Egypt and India, sfcp 
awards enabled scholars to observe phenomenal occasions such as 
a solar eclipse or centuries-old continuing traditions of performance 
rituals. 

In 1980, preparation continued for the termination, at the end of 
fiscal year 1981, of excess-currency funds in Egypt. The Smith- 
sonian Foreign Currency Program has been the principal supporter 
of American archaeological and historical research in Egypt and of 
the Cairo Center of the American Research Center in Egypt, a 
consortium of American institutions with research interests in 
Egypt. The contribution of United States scholars has been highly 
significant and therefore the Smithsonian continues to urge govern- 
ment and university officials to plan for replacement funding for 
the future. 



138 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



The Smithsonian initiated in 1980 a forward-funded reserve for 
the American Institute of Indian Studies to be used at the time 
surplus currencies are no longer available in India. The aiis, a con- 
sortium of thirty-two United States institutions, is the most success- 
ful United States scholarly presence in India, bringing more than 
one hundred fellows to that country yearly, operating an archeo- 
logical documentation center at Benares, and conducting language, 
translation, and publication programs. The aiis has received pro- 
gram funding for the past thirteen years. Through incremental 
appropriations, the Smithsonian hopes to establish a fund of up to 
$20 million equivalent in Indian rupees for future aiis activities. 

The Smithsonian received a fiscal year 1980 appropriation of 
$3.7 million in "excess" currencies to support projects in an- 
thropology and archeology, systematic and environmental biology, 
astrophysics and earth sciences, and museum professional fields, 
and $500,000 to initiate the aiis forward-funded reserve. From its 
inception in fiscal year 1966 through fiscal year 1980, the sfcp has 
awarded about $42.5 million in foreign currency grants to 221 in- 
stitutions in forty states and the District of Columbia. 



Radiation Biology Laboratory 

One of the most challenging quests of biological research is to dis- 
cover the mechanism for the regulation of growth and develop- 
ment. This field of science is still in an early stage of development. 
No general underlying theory exists in developmental biology. To 
be sure, great advances have been made in genetics and molecular 
biology, and scientists know a great deal about the way in which 
information is stored in organisms. In a few organisms, research 
scientists know how this information is read to provide the instruc- 
tions for the metabolism and synthesis of materials needed for 
growth. Nevertheless, little is known of the subsequent steps of 
development. 

Developmental processes are extremely complex. Causal chains 
of events are difficult to determine. In addition, development and 
growth are both remarkably resistant to environmental change 
and at the same time remarkably sensitive to environmental change. 



Science I 139 



For example, a potato left in storage in a dark place develops a 
shoot that is white and elongated. It is clear that it is a potato shoot, 
but its growth pattern is completely different from a shoot that has 
developed in the light. Thus, all the necessary information for being 
a potato plant exists in both shoots, but this information is read 
differently in the light and the dark. 

Although many environmental factors influence growth and de- 
velopment, the Radiation Biology Laboratory (rbl) has emphasized 
the study of light as a controlling factor. Light produces distinc- 
tive changes in developmental patterns of plants. Light is also an 
advantageous experimental probe by which to study growth and 
development because it can be applied quantitatively in well- 
defined amounts and because the colors of light which are effective 
give information about the chemicals that regulate development. 

The energy for all growth and development is provided ultimately 
by synthetic processes driven primarily by sunlight in the process 
of photosynthesis. Once a source of energy is available, develop- 
ment occurs in response to the environmental factors that regulate 
the rate of utilization of this energy. The research areas of the 
Radiation Biology Laboratory this past year have continued to 
measure these environmental factors and how they regulate de- 
velopment. Specifically, these areas are: (2) regulatory processes 
of plants, such as membrane synthesis and pigment synthesis; (2) 
environmental processes and energy flow in biological systems, such 
as photosynthesis and carbon metabolism; (3) measurement of the 
amount, duration, and color quality of sunlight present in the en- 
vironment; and (4) age estimation of biological artifacts based 
upon their radiocarbon content. 

REGULATORY BIOLOGY 

In order for light to affect a biological system it must be absorbed 
by a pigment. Carotenoid pigments and their oxygenated deriva- 
tives, the xanthophylls, are widely distributed in nature. These 
pigments are responsible for many of the yellow, orange, and red 
colors observed in both plants and animals. The carotenoid beta- 
carotene is important in the diet of many animals because it is a 
precursor of vitamin A. In many organisms, the carotenoids have 
been shown to protect against adverse effects of intense visible 
light. 



140 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



The biosynthesis of carotenoid pigments is regulated by blue light 
and/or red light in a wide range of organisms including many 
bacteria, fungi, algae, and higher plants. In the fungus Neurospora, 
blue light induces carotenoid production. The nature of this blue- 
light photoreceptor is unknown, although flavins and carotenes 
themselves are suspected. 

Phytoene, a forty-carbon colorless compound, is a precursor of 
the carotenoid pigments. Phytoene is synthesized from a five-carbon 
compound, isopentenyl-pyrophosphate (ipp), by a series of re- 
actions. The amount of phytoene synthesized from ipp in cell ex- 
tracts of Neurospora is increased by giving light to the initial 
intact cells from which extracts are prepared. The conversion of ipp 
to phytoene by Neurospora extracts requires both a soluble and a 
particulate enzyme fraction. Soluble and particulate fractions from 
dark-grown and light-treated wild-type and three mutant strains, 
albino-1, albino-2, and albino-3, have been prepared. All possible 
combinations of soluble plus particulate fractions were made and 
assayed for enzyme activity for conversion of ipp to phytoene. 
From these experiments it was concluded: albino-3 is blocked in 
the soluble phase; albino-2 is blocked in the particulate phase; in 
vivo light treatment increases the enzyme activity in the particulate 
fraction in wild-type, albino-1, and albino-3 strains, but not in 
albino-2. Thus, light regulates carotenoid synthesis in part by 
regulating some component of the particulate cell fraction needed 
for conversion of ipp to phytoene. 

These albino mutants can show where in carotenoid synthesis 
light regulates but cannot show the path between photoreceptor 
and carotenoid product. Another type of albino (orginally isolated 
by Dr. David Perkins at Stanford), designated wc (white collar), 
may be useful for this purpose. This mutant produces normal levels 
of carotenoid pigment in the spore-bearing conidia, but not in the 
vegetative mycelia. In albino-1, albino-2, and albino-3 strains, both 
the conidia and the mycelia show a defect in carotenogenesis. The 
conidia in wild-type strains of Neurospora are known to produce 
pigment in the dark, whereas light is required for carotenoid 
production in the mycelia. Somehow, conidia are able to bypass the 
light regulation process. Therefore, wc albinos, i.e., strains showing 
normal pigment in the conidia, but not in the mycelia, are probably 
regulatory mutants that are blocked in some part of the initial 



Science I 141 



light-induction process. In such a mutant, the conidia can still make 
normal levels of pigment, since the mutation is not in any genes 
which code for enzymes in the carotenoid pathway (structural 
genes). The other albino strains are mutated in structural genes, and 
thus in these strains, carotenoid biosynthesis is blocked in both 
conidia and mycelia. 

The mixing experiments already described were extended to 
include the wc mutant. The level of particulate enzyme activity in 
this strain is not increased by an in vivo light treatment. These 
results support the hypothesis that this mutant is blocked in the 
photoinduction process. 

The isolation of such wc mutants may lead to identification of the 
photoreceptor pigment. Identification of the photoreceptor would 
be of fundamental importance because of the distinct possibility 
that this compound is also involved in blue-light effects in higher 
plants. 

Blue light also induces beta-carotene synthesis in the mycelia of 
the fungus Phycomyces. The same blue-light photoreceptor is be- 
lieved to control this process in both Neurospora and Phycomyces. 
In Phycomyces, carotenoid synthesis is a biphasic function of the 
amount of blue light given. Some beta-carotene is formed in the 
dark, but small doses of blue light increase the level of beta-caro- 
tene synthesized. Further, small increments in blue light do not 
increase carotenoid synthesis; however, if additional large amounts 
of blue light are given, more beta-carotene is synthesized. The 
additional beta-carotene is believed to protect the cells against 
photooxidative damage from the high intensity light. Measurements 
of carotenoid synthesized in response to increasing light doses of 
three wavelengths of light — 365, 405, and 455 nm — show that the 
relative effectiveness of 365 nm light, as compared to 455 nm, in- 
creases for large doses. A comparison of the relative effectiveness at 
these three wavelengths supports the hypothesis that both flavin 
and carotenoid pigments are involved in the regulation, with caro- 
tenoids implicated for small doses and flavins for large doses. 

Pigment complexes occur in algae in which accessory pigments 
are utilized to funnel light energy into the photosynthetic apparatus 
in environments that are rich in light not readily absorbed by 
chlorophyll, the usual pigment photoreceptor. These pigment com- 
plexes in algae (phycobilisomes) occur on membranes. Studies 



142 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



have continued on the phycobilisome structure exploring (1) the 
nature of the phycobiliprotein linking components within the phy- 
cobilisomes, and (2) the components of the phycobilisome core, 
which acts as an energy sink and funnel to the photosynthetic 
membranes. In phycobilisomes of several species about seven to 
ten possible linker proteins have been identified. They constitute a 
small percentage (10-15 percent) of the total protein content and 
do not contain pigment chromophores. One of the polypeptides, 
which constitutes about 5 percent of a recombinable phycoerythrin- 
phycocyanin complex, has been purified for preparation of antisera. 
Production of antisera will aid in the exploration of the recom- 
bination process and enable testing of the species-specificity of the 
linking components. 

Four allophycocyanin pigments, representing the core of the phy- 
cobilisome, were isolated and characterized. The role of two of 
the forms is light gathering, while the other two forms by virtue 
of their long wavelength absorbing and emission properties are 
considered to be probable bridging pigments to chlorophyll. Spectra 
at low temperature and by circular dichroism provided evidence in 
the latter for exciton interactions. Previously it had been assumed 
that energy transfer in phycobiliproteins was by a much slower 
resonance type transfer. Excitation interaction implies a unique 
structural feature requiring that the pigment chromophores are 

o 

within 11 A of one another and probably occur near the surface of 
the subunits. 

Chloroplasts in higher plants contain membrane sacks called 
thylakoids. The thylakoids contain proteins. Some of the protein 
polypeptides of the thylakoids are made in the chloroplast on 
chloroplast ribosomes. Ribosomes that synthesize protein are at- 
tached to the surfaces of some thylakoids. It is suggested that these 
ribosomes specifically synthesize some thylakoid polypeptides as 
part of thylakoid growth. To determine if this hypothesis is correct, 
rna has been isolated from thylakoids, and the messenger-RNA 
(m-RNA) in it has been translated in a wheat germ extract. The 
thylakoid-bound rna that stimulates protein synthesis in wheat 
germ extract is not polyadenylated. Ninety-five percent of m-RNA 
activity was recovered in the nonpolyadenylated fraction after 
chromatography on oligo-d(T)-cellulose. Cytoplasm m-RNA's are 
largely polyadenylated. The chloroplast m-RNA's which have been 



Science I 143 



studied are not polyadenylated. Thus, the finding that thylakoid- 
bound m-RNA, which is translated in wheat germ extract, is not 
polyadenylated suggests that what is translated is indeed chloroplast 
m-RNA, and not the cytoplasm m-RNA's that contaminate the thy- 
lakoid preparations. However, which thylakoid polypeptides are 
coded for by the thylakoid-bound m-RNA has not been determined. 

Red light is known to regulate plant growth through the pigment 
phytochrome. Phytochrome, containing a light-absorbing chro- 
mophore, is a protein that can be isolated and purified for laboratory 
study. An active area of research on phytochrome is the photo- 
induction of in vitro binding of phytochrome to membrane frac- 
tions in the plant cell. The goal of these experiments has been to 
establish the primary action of phytochrome by identifying a 
specific interaction with another cell component. Light has been 
found to induce a self aggregation of pea phytochrome in the 
presence of divalent cations. This aggregation effect makes the 
quantitation of membrane binding very difficult. It is concluded that 
light-dependent aggregation could have interfered in most of the 
studies published to date where it was assumed that phytochrome 
was binding to membranes. 

Alkyl- and omega-amino alkyl agaroses were used as probes of 
light-induced changes in phytochrome from pea seedlings. It was 
observed that the surface of the phytochrome molecule becomes 
more hydrophobic on photoconversion from its biologically in- 
active form to its biologically active form. 

The red-light-induced photostationary state of phytochrome rep- 
resents the maximum concentration of biologically active phyto- 
chrome that can be obtained. A value was obtained of the mole 
fraction of biologically active rye phytochrome under red light of 
0.84. Published values from other laboratories range from 0.75 to 
0.81. The calculation and measurement of the mole fraction of active 
phytochrome is based on the assumption that solutions of phyto- 
chrome contain only two components, the active and inactive forms 
of the protein. However, when only two components are demon- 
strated to be present, the value is 0.84. 

Last year a highly specific binding of the dye Cibacron blue F3GA 
to phytochrome was reported. The preferential binding to the 
biologically active form of the protein makes it a probe for an 
"active site" on the protein. This phenomenon has been used to 



144 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



develop a purification procedure that yields large amounts of homo- 
geneous phytochrome. Many physical and chemical studies of this 
protein are now possible using this procedure. 

The presence of the green pigment chlorophyll often interferes 
with the determination of the activity of phytochrome. Herbicides 
can be added in low concentrations that selectively inhibit the 
accumulation of chlorophyll. With such plants, the influence of 
phytochrome can be determined more easily. If duckweed (Lemna 
gibba) is grown in the presence of the herbicide Sandoz under con- 
tinuous white light of about 600 foot-candles, the chlorophyll 
content is decreased so that in a concentration of 1 micromolar 
(//.m) Sandoz there is virtually no chlorophyll present. Unfor- 
tunately, growth and flowering are also inhibited so that it is not 
possible to obtain bleached material that will flower under in- 
ductive conditions. However, under intermittent red light (30 /aw 
cm -2 ), 10 /aM Sandoz produces completely bleached plants and 
stimulates both growth and flowering. Salicylic acid inhibits 
growth (as it does under white light), but stimulates even more 
flowering. With 10 /aM Sandoz and 10 /aM salicylic acid, it is pos- 
sible to obtain completely bleached plants with more than 50 percent 
flowering. As the frequency of the exposure to red light is de- 
creased, the flowering response to salicylic acid treatment also 
decreases. A "daylength dependence" develops that is analogous 
to the daylength dependence under white light for the salicylic in- 
duction of flowering in green Lemna. 

When the long-day plant Lemna gibba G3 is grown under con- 
tinuous light in half-strength Hutner's medium, flowering is com- 
pletely inhibited. Ammonium ion is present in this medium, which 
is known to inhibit flowering in Lemna, but flowering is still in- 
hibited in ammonium-free half-strength Hutner's medium. This 
inhibition can be largely (but not completely) overcome if the 
phosphate concentration is increased, and if the concentration of 
the chelator, ethylene diaminetetracetic acid, is decreased. 

ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY 

Solar spectral quality and quantity affect not only the vegetative 
productivity and growth of plants through photosynthesis but 
also, in a much more subtle manner, their reproductive behavior. 



Science I 145 



It has been known since the 1920s that many plants reproduce in 
response to changes in the relative length of the day throughout 
the year. This phenomenon is known as photoperiodism. Photo- 
periodism depends on the presence in the environment of a suitable 
light signal to tell the plant, with some precision, how long the 
daylength is, and depends also on an internal detector mechanism 
required to perceive such a signal. 

It has been known for some time that the ubiquitous plant pig- 
ment phytochrome is the probable detector molecule or photo- 
receptor. Phytochrome exists as two interconvertible forms. It was 
thought that the perception of daylength was related to the time 
required for one form to revert to the other. Critical measurements 
of the rates of this interconversion have shown this not to be the 
case. For at least one economically important group of plants (long- 
day plants), the reproductive response appears to be mediated by 
the relative levels of the two forms of the pigment that coexist in 
specific ratios depending on the quality of the light. It does not 
seem to depend on reversion of one form to another. This periodic 
response requires very high energies of light with an optimal spec- 
tral composition. As the spectral composition changes from this 
optimum, the amount of energy required increases. 

Laboratory measurements of the spectral composition of solar 
daylight indicate that, throughout most of the day, the relative 
energies are suboptimal. At twilight, however, as the total energy 
decreases, the relative energy shifts toward more optimal ratios. 
This shift was also found to occur with increasing shade when the 
light is passed through a series of leaves, as might occur under a 
forest canopy. Thus, it appears that this shift in relative energy 
might be the environmental light signal for photoperiodism. 

The sensitivity of the plant itself to optimal spectral ratios also 
changes dramatically during the course of the day. Therefore, 
even when all of the proper light signals are present, the plant will 
only respond when they occur at the proper time. This internal 
regulation appears to be a function of the biological clock of the 
plant and as such is coupled to numerous other biochemical and 
physiological events. The mechanism of how optimal ratios of the 
phytochrome pigment interact with this internal clock and the 
nature of the clock itself are still unknown. 

The water flea Daphnia responds to daily stimuli at twilight by 



146 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



undergoing vertical migrations in its aqueous environment. The 
stimuli are rapid changes in light intensity, and the strength of the 
response is controlled in part by the spectral quality of under- 
water light. Narrow band action spectra of phototaxis (directional 
movement toward or away from light after a change in intensity) 
and photokinesis (swimming speed) of Daphnia magna were 
measured in a specially designed chamber that simulates the 
angular light distribution in a clear underwater environment. The 
phototactic response of Daphnia has a wavelength of maximum 
response at 570 nm (yellow-green) when the adaptation intensity 
(intensity prior to a stimulus) is 1.6 ^w cm" 2 . This peak shifts to 
440 nm when the adaptation intensity is an order of magnitude 
lower. When intensities are two decades lower or four times 
higher, Daphnia shows no phototactic responses to light stimuli 
at any wavelength. The photokinetic response in a constant light 
intensity is strongest at relatively low intensities and may have 
slight activity peaks at about 370 nm (ultraviolet) and 685 nm 
(red). At higher intensities, the peaks are more distinct but are 
shifted to 570 nm (yellow-green) and 440 nm (blue), which were 
the peaks observed for the phototactic response. 

Light is also the energy source for photosynthesis, and through 
the photosynthetic process plants provide the energy for the earth's 
ecosystem. The efficiency of light usage in photosynthesis is very 
low, around 2 percent. The use of light from electrical conversion 
to accelerate plant growth has increased in the past decade with the 
increase in demand for prime horticulture and floriculture products. 
The electrical energy used is mostly produced from fossil fuels and 
thereby depletes a nonrenewable resource. 

The mode of light applied for plant growth has traditionally 
been continuous. However, early work on plants under flashing 
light indicated an increased efficiency in the photosynthetic utiliza- 
tion of light energy by applying the light in a flashing mode, rather 
than continuously. The increased utilization of flashing light does 
not affect the molecular conversion of light energy in the photosyn- 
thetic process, but depends on the penetration of the light within a 
multi-leaf layer plant canopy. The penetration of very short flashes 
(less than 100 milliseconds) is dependent on the morphology of the 
plant, and the spectral quality and irradiance level of the light. 

The photosynthetic efficiency of tomato and lettuce as measured 



Science I 147 



by the "net assimilating rate" was about 36 percent greater for 
plants grown under intermittent or continuous red light compared 
to plants grown under white light of equal irradiance. Lettuce ir- 
radiated with intermittent white light gave a 5 to 6 percent in- 
crease in the assimilation rate compared to continuous white light. 

Environmental factors other than light and COj are important 
limitations on the photosynthetic capacity of higher plants. In 
several years of measurements of photosynthesis in communities 
of salt marsh vegetation at the Chesapeake Bay Center for En- 
vironmental Studies (cbces), a seasonal decline in photosynthetic 
capacity occurs that is correlated with a seasonal decline in soil and 
plant water potential. 

During the day, leaf water potential of salt marsh species de- 
creases from about — 5 bars in early morning to about — 35 bars by 
afternoon, even though soil water potentials within the root zone 
remain near — 3 bars throughout the day. A gradient develops in 
the plant during the daytime when evaporation of water from the 
leaf through the stomatal openings reduces leaf water content. 
Photosynthesis increases the concentration of simple carbohydrates 
and other small molecules, which further reduces the water 
potential. 

Salt marsh soils are very wet and anaerobic. This condition, 
along with the presence of salt, can produce a very high resistance 
to water flow through the roots. Salt, brought into the marsh on 
normal tidal cycles, is concentrated in the soil when water is lost 
by evapotranspiration through the plant community. When the 
water supply from the roots is insufficient to keep pace with de- 
mand by the leaf, the plant must close its stomatal openings, thus 
restricting both water and COl- exchange, or wilt. When leaf water 
stress is sufficient for this to happen, photosynthesis declines. This 
inhibition occurs during midday when leaf water potentials are 
low, beginning about two hours before noon, even though solar 
radiation continues to increase. 

The major effort in the rbl radiation monitoring program during 
the past year has been to develop a stable and highly accurate 
ultraviolet B (uvb) instrument. This has been accomplished to a 
degree that permits us to monitor the uvb spectral quality and also 
determine small variations in total atmospheric ozone. At present, 
the Radiation Biology Laboratory has a data bank of daily values 
of uvb that can answer some of the questions concerning the ozone 



148 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



depletion of the atmosphere and the possible increase in the harm- 
ful effects of the uvb. 

From a comparison between a Berger-Robertson dosimeter (an 
instrument commonly used in uvb studies) and the rbl scanning 
radiometer, it appears that the uv dosimeter is too sensitive to the 
longer wavelengths of uvb and, therefore, does not track detri- 
mental uv (duv) energy very well. The dosimeter also appears to 
have a sensitivity that is dependent on solar elevations. The major 
problems encountered using the dosimeter, i.e., the fixed sensitivity 
curve and temperature dependence, are due to the construction of 
the instrument. This sensitivity curve is not a true duv curve, and 
the variation between the two curves starts to become very large 
(greater than 3x) at 305 nm. Finally, the variation at 320 nm is 
over lOOx and since the 320 nm band has approximately twenty 
times more energy than the 305 nm band, the weighted variation 
between the two curves will be greater than 30:1. The investiga- 
tion also indicates that the dosimeter would deviate further from 
the true duv energy in northern latitudes than in southern latitudes 
and, therefore, cannot track ozone variations or yield biologically 
significant data better than ±25 percent. For these reasons, the 
rbl scanning radiometer has been developed to provide accurate 
radiometric monitoring of uvb. 

A program was initiated in 1979 to study the spectral quality of 
light underwater. The site chosen for the study is an estuary at 
cbces. Three systems units have been constructed for this purpose: 
two stationary monitoring units and one portable measuring unit. 
The portable unit is presently in operation. The two monitoring 
units were put in place in summer 1980. One of the monitoring 
units is located underwater about 400 feet from the shore where 
the terrestrial unit is mounted. Total power for operating these 
systems is coming from photovoltaic solar panels. Storage of 
electrical power from the panels is accomplished with ordinary 
lead-acid batteries. 

The work over the past year has yielded new information on 
silicon detectors and possibly some new information on the degra- 
dation of terrestrial solar panels. It was found that blue-sensitive 
silicon becomes less responsive to the blue portion of the solar 
spectrum as the cell ages in a terrestrial environment. This could 
explain, in part, why unencapsulated photovoltaic solar panels 
made of silicon degrade rapidly under these conditions. 

Science I 149 



CARBON DATING LABORATORY 

The laboratory provides analytical service for the research interests 
of the Institution staff in providing radiocarbon chronologies for 
samples of archeological and geological interest. Additionally, a 
major portion of laboratory research continues to focus upon the 
early occupations of the Americas and upon the investigation of 
relationships between changing environment and changing cul- 
tures. Geologic, cultural, and climatic chronologies are being de- 
veloped for a number of Early Man sites in Brazil and Chile, as 
well as Alaska, Washington, Colorado, and Wyoming, many of 
them in association with now-extinct megafauna. Continued re- 
finement of cultural developments at two sites in southeastern 
Alaska now provide very strong circumstantial evidence of the use 
of water transport there as early as 10,000 years ago and warrant 
reconsideration of the mode of the early migrations from the north. 

Fossil fresh-water algae recovered from melt-water deltas in the 
Lake Vida region of Antarctica have been dated to determine times 
of major warming trends there. Initial results correlate well with 
the Two Creeks event in Wisconsin and with dates obtained from 
samples in Allerod-age deposits along the coast of Norway. To 
the north, dated shells from raised beach deposits on Spitzbergen 
suggest warming and glacial melting there at about the same time. 
This project continues in an effort to correlate worldwide sealevel 
changes and short-term climate changes with major events taking 
place in the Antarctic ice sheet. 

Sediments cored from the Sea of Marmara and the Hellenic 
Trench in the eastern Mediterranean have been dated to determine 
the extent of correlation with late Pleistocene/early Holocene cur- 
rent reversals discovered earlier in a dating project at the Strait of 
Gibraltar. Additional mercury shielding for the counting apparatus 
has been devised in an effort to decrease counting time and to in- 
crease precision in the dating of very small samples. 



Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 

As the new decade commences, two major observing tools — both 
conceived and designed by Smithsonian astronomers in collabora- 
tion with colleagues at other institutions — have now enjoyed a full 



150 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



year of operation. And, as it was hoped, the x-ray telescope (Ein- 
stein Observatory) flown onboard the High Energy Astronomy 
Observatory (heao 2) satellite and the Multiple Mirror Telescope 
(mmt), a joint project of the Smithsonian Institution and the Uni- 
versity of Arizona, have fulfilled the promise of introducing new 
eras in astronomical research. 

Since their respective moments of "first light," these innovative 
instruments have provided the international scientific community 
with an abundance of new data. For example, as a member of the 
Smithsonian's Einstein team has remarked, "In only one series of 
observations of the Andromeda Galaxy (M 31), Einstein essentially 
doubled the x-ray information acquired in ten years of previous 
observations." 

The record for the mmt is equally impressive. Early observations 
with this unusual instrument resulted in the discovery of a new 
class of pulsating white dwarf stars and helped confirm one of the 
most exciting developments in recent astrophysics — the observation 
of the gravitational lens effect. More important, the performance 
of the Multiple Mirror Telescope has led to its being hailed as 
the prototype for a future generation of large telescopes by the 
participants in the workshop sponsored by Kitt Peak National 
Observatory. 

Similarly, early this year, results from the Einstein Observatory 
dominated the agenda at the meeting of the High Energy Astro- 
physics Division of the American Astronomical Society in Cam- 
bridge. As pointed out by Riccardo Giacconi, principal investigator 
of the Einstein (heao 2) program, the x-ray telescope aboard the 
satellite provided researchers with one thousand times greater 
sensitivity than previous detectors and, thus, has the potential for 
producing much new information on extremely faint x-ray objects 
and objects at great cosmological distances. 

Among the results reported at the meeting sponsored by the 
Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics was an unexpected 
finding: Virtually all stars emit x-rays! In an early observation, a 
cluster of O stars seen in the gaseous nebula Eta Carinae appeared, 
in x-rays, more than one million times brighter than the sun. Sub- 
sequent observations, on other classes of stars, supported the view 
that faint optical objects were emitting as much as or more x- 
radiation than our sun. It was also found that many so-called nor- 



Science I 151 



mal stars of the same size and spectral character as the sun were 
as much as five hundred times brighter in x-rays. These studies, it 
is hoped, will lead to the description of a new method to account 
for the prevalence of x-ray emission from diverse classes of stars 
and an explanation for the wide range of x-ray luminosities seen 
within each stellar class. 

The Einstein has also made a unique contribution to the study of 
bright extragalactic objects at very great distances. Because the 
Einstein is capable of "finding" objects such as quasars at distances 
corresponding to the very earliest age of the universe, and since the 
Einstein "deep" surveys have so far shown that the explanation 
for extragalactic x-ray background is in good agreement with the 
suspected contribution from quasars, some preliminary conclusions 
concerning the question of an open or closed universe are implied. 
It is suggested that the missing mass of the universe, once assumed 
to be produced by an x-ray-emitting hot gas, is not present and, 
therefore, that the universe could continue expanding indefinitely. 

For those astronomers who use ground-based instruments to 
carry out their observation programs, the mmt has provided many 
new opportunities for research and demonstrates the potential for 
considerable future advances. For example, the telescope has 
proved to be receptive to the adaptation of existing instrumenta- 
tion; an echelle spectrograph and a Fourier transform spectrometer 
developed in Cambridge have both been successfully operated in 
conjunction with the mmt in Arizona. Already, observing time has 
increased to 70 percent, with the remaining time allotted to engi- 
neering tests and adjustment. Indeed, in its first operating year, 
astronomers are becoming increasingly aware of the high-quality 
"seeing" afforded by the Arizona mountaintop location, and ex- 
pect that resolution to one-half arcsecond can be achieved. Future 
improvements, including the completion of the active optics sys- 
tem, will allow resolution that approaches one-tenth arcsecond. 

In recent observations, the mmt captured a second example of 
the gravitational lens effect. Earlier observations with the tele- 
scope indicated that the spectra and redshifts of "twin quasars" 
discovered optically by an instrument at Kitt Peak were nearly 
identical. The new discovery involved the University of Arizona's 
90-inch telescope, which supplied the optical data, and spectro- 
scopic observations by the mmt, which confirmed that the "triple 



152 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



quasar" was, in fact, a single, distant quasar distorted by some un- 
seen object, most likely a galaxy, between it and observers. 

Instruments, no matter how innovative and advanced, are still 
merely tools to be used in the pursuit of information. Data must be 
analyzed and interpreted to explain and describe the observed 
richness of the universe. This interpretation remains the task of 
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (sao) scientific staff, 
and, thus, it was with great pride that the observatory received 
the news that Harvard Physics Professor and sao staff member 
Steven Weinberg had been awarded the 1979 Nobel Prize in 
Physics for his contributions to the understanding of the funda- 
mental forces of nature. He and other investigators worked both 
separately and in collaboration to develop mathematical theories 
that suggested that two of the four basic forces in nature — the 
electromagnetic and the so-called weak — may be different mani- 
festations of the same phenomena. The combining of the two 
forces is considered a major step toward the long-sought Grand 
Unification Theory, a single formula that would explain the four 
forces (i.e., weak, strong, electromagnetic, and gravitational) con- 
trolling the physics of all matter in the universe. 

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory is a member, with 
Harvard College Observatory (hco), of the Center for Astrophysics 
headquartered in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The facilities and 
resources of each observatory are combined in this joint enterprise, 
with research interests organized by divisional programs. 

ATOMIC AND MOLECULAR PHYSICS 

The major objective of the Atomic and Molecular Physics Divi- 
sion's research is to increase knowledge of the processes and param- 
eters of atomic and molecular physics that are fundamental to all 
branches of astronomy. 

In the laboratory, measurements are carried out of the cross- 
sections for electron excitation, autoionization, and photoionization 
of atoms and of gf-values of allowed and forbidden radiation tran- 
sitions in atoms and molecules. The Ion Beam Facility is now fully 
operational and calibrated and an inclined beams arrangement has 
provided the means to measure the absolute cross section for 
electron excitation of the 2s - 2p transition in C IV at 155 nano- 
meters. Experiments are also under way with the Ion Beam Facility 



Science I 153 



to determine basic properties of multiply charged ions found in 
high-temperature astrophysical plasmas and in laboratory plasmas 
being developed by the Department of Energy. 

During the last two years, collaborative investigations of the 
ultraviolet spectra of binary x-ray sources, globular clusters, and 
supernova remnants have been carried out with the International 
Ultraviolet Explorer (iue) satellite telescope. Contributions to the 
iue studies have been most substantial in work on interstellar ab- 
sorption lines and on the behavior of the massive binary system 
VV Cephei during eclipse. A current observing program with iue 
concerns the study of interstellar lines in regions near x-ray 
sources. Analysis of lines of highly ionized species is revealing 
directly the effects of x-ray sources upon the ionization balance of 
surrounding interstellar matter. 

iue was also used during the latest rare eclipse of VV Cephei 
(period =20 years) to watch the OB secondary emerge gradually 
from behind the extended atmosphere of the M2lab primary. A 
striking fluorescence spectrum was seen in the ultraviolet while 
there was a very large optical depth through the cool atmosphere to 
the hot star, but as the eclipse progressed, this was replaced by a 
low-excitation absorption spectrum. Spectra continue to be ob- 
tained of this and related binary systems in the hope that a de- 
tailed model of the structure of the cool atmosphere can be con- 
structed from these data. 

Research on the application of atomic and molecular processes 
to the study of comets and the terrestrial atmosphere continues. 
In particular, attention was focused on the response of the earth's 
atmosphere and cometary coma to the substantial ultraviolet flux 
increase occurring during the present solar cycle in conjunction 
with the Atmospheric Explorer Satellite program. A continuing 
joint program with Lick Observatory for the study and interpreta- 
tion of the Lick comet plate collection yielded valuable data on the 
composition of the comet nucleus. 

It has been pointed out earlier that double photoionization is an 
important source of doubly charged ions in the thermospheres of the 
terrestrial planets. Studies of the photochemistry of ++ are 
showing significant effects in the densities of minor ions in the 
upper atmospheres of the Earth, Mars, and Venus, and possibly on 
the nonthermal escape of nitrogen from Mars. 



154 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



HIGH ENERGY ASTROPHYSICS 
The activities of the High Energy Astrophysics Division are con- 
centrated in three main areas: the acquisition and analysis of data 
obtained by the heao-2 (Einstein) satellite; the acquisition and 
analysis of data from other satellite, rocket, and ground-based ob- 
servations; and the development of new instrumentation for future 
missions. In general, however, the division's effort has been domi- 
nated by the successful operation of the Einstein satellite, for this 
spacecraft carries the first x-ray telescopes capable of providing 
focused images of x-ray objects in space. 

For example, the deep x-ray survey utilized the ultimate capa- 
bilities of the Einstein Observatory to study the nature of the 
extragalactic x-ray background, contributing much to the study 
of distant quasars, the study of x-ray sources in the galaxy M31, 
and the study of the x-ray emission from radio galaxies Cen A and 
Cyg A and also from clusters of galaxies. 

The studies of clusters of galaxies at cosmological distances 
included the discovery of apparent evolution in the temperature 
of these clusters as well as placing quantitative limits on their 
luminosity evolution. Nearby rich clusters of galaxies were ob- 
served with the Einstein, and the x-ray observations were com- 
pared with optical studies to produce a new, albeit tentative, classi- 
fication system for defining clusters as those dominated by a single 
central galaxy and those lacking any central condensation. 

The study of clusters of galaxies and galactic halos also included 
the measurement of the mass of M87's halo from the distribution 
of the x-ray emitting gas, and the analysis of Perseus cluster x-ray 
data. In a related study, an extended x-ray source centered on the 
elliptical galaxy M86 was found to be the result of ram pressure 
stripping of the galactic gas by the gas pervading the Virgo cluster. 
The galaxy itself could retain its internally generated gas during 
the period it spends far from the dense cluster core. 

Other x-ray astronomy studies conducted with the Einstein 
Observatory included the precise location and, thus, determination 
of masses of sources within globular clusters; the first x-ray 
imaging and time-resolved spectral studies of an x-ray burst (from 
the globular cluster Terzan 2); time resolution studies of a gamma- 
ray burst; imaging and spectral studies of the unusual optical 
object known as 5S433; a study of emission from flare stars; the 



Science I 155 



analysis of x-ray emission from supernova remnants and from 
radio pulsars; and a study of the Crab Nebula and associated pul- 
sar that has led to the first measurement of the "off" state flux 
from the Crab. 

One of the most productive areas of research with the Einstein 
Observatory has been the study of the x-ray properties of quasars. 
Emphasis has been on finding correlations between x-ray lumi- 
nosity and optical luminosity, between x-ray luminosity and radio 
luminosity, and between x-ray luminosity and redshift. Observa- 
tions have been interpreted as requiring two mechanisms for x-ray 
production in quasars. Calculations of the contribution of quasars 
to the diffuse x-ray background have been refined with the con- 
clusion that quasars are a major contributor to the x-ray back- 
ground. Furthermore, the limit set by the diffuse x-ray background 
constrains the number of optically faint quasars and provides 
support for models in which quasar evolution is predominantly 
luminosity evolution and not pure density evolution. 

Optical astronomy research carried out with the 4-meter telescope 
at Cerro Tololo InterAmerican Observatory led to the discovery 
of six x-ray-selected quasars and of new correlations between 
optical emission lines and x-ray luminosity in quasars. Additional 
observations of these quasars were conducted with the mmt at Mt. 
Hopkins. Infrared observations of Einstein x-ray sources were con- 
ducted with the 3-meter telescope at Mauna Kea Observatory, 
Hawaii. 

Observations of extragalactic x-ray sources with the SAS-3 
satellite continued. And, on March 22, a sounding rocket was 
launched successfully from White Sands, New Mexico. On board 
was a solid-state spectrometer used to measure the line strengths 
of C V, VI and O VII, VIII, which are emitted from the hot com- 
ponent of the interstellar medium. Preliminary results confirm the 
presence of the hot component at a temperature of approximately 
1.1 X 10° K. 

Among the major space instruments planned for the future, and 
now being studied within this division, is the 1.2-meter x-ray 
telescope and the Advanced X-ray Astrophysics Facility (axaf). In 
addition, the division is also engaged in the development of de- 
tectors such as a Charge Coupled Device (ccd) x-ray camera and a 



156 / Smithsonian Year 1980 




To test light-sensitive silicon chip cameras for astronomical telescopes, sao scientists 
take a series of photos measuring response to brightness. In this image of a human 
eye, an electronic cursor draws a line across the pupil while changing intensity of 
light is plotted at left. The gleam in Peter C's eye shows surface brightness twice 
that of the white of his eye. Below. The new air exhaust system installed on the Mt. 
Hopkins Multiple Mirror Telescope allows venting of warm air from the observing 
chamber. Reduction of the rising warm air current here will improve the "seeing" of 
the telescope, already cited as one of the world's best. 




Scintillating Imaging Proportional Counter for use in the focal 
plane of imaging x-ray telescopes. These detectors will combine 
moderate energy resolution and high quantum efficiency with high 
spatial resolution and moderate spatial resolution, respectively. 
Other instrumentation developments include Negative Electron 
Affinity Devices, as well as improvements in existing detectors 
such as the High Resolution Imaging Detector in use on the Ein- 
stein Observatory. 

OPTICAL AND INFRARED ASTRONOMY 

The Optical and Infrared Astronomy Division is involved in pro- 
grams of new facility and instrumentation development, space 
astronomy, and extragalactic and stellar astronomy. 

The Multiple Mirror Telescope (mmt), which is rapidly ap- 
proaching full operation status, is a joint project of the University 
of Arizona and the Smithsonian Institution located at the Mt. 
Hopkins Observatory in Arizona. During the past year, use of the 
telescope for scientific observing has increased from 50 percent to 
70 percent of the nights. 

Two new detectors were brought into operation on the mmt: a 
photon-counting Reticon for spectroscopic applications and an rca 
ccd camera for direct imaging. The spectroscopic detector was 
used with great success on the mmt in May and June. These instru- 
ment developments culminated in the confirmation of the second 
example of a multiple quasar produced by a gravitational lens. 
In addition, the mmt was utilized in a program of high-resolution 
(25 kilometers per second) measurements of emission lines from 
the nuclei of Seyfert galaxies with the Fourier transform spec- 
trometer. 

Observations of several emission lines in the visible part of the 
spectrum of NGC 4151, which used the echelle spectrograph on 
the Mt. Hopkins 60-inch telescope with the intensified Reticon 
detector, have also been made. Comparison of these line profiles 
with the Ne II line and with each other should show how gas 
clouds moving at various velocities compare in degree of excitation 
and in the amount of obscuration by dust (through which the 12.8- 
micron radiation will penetrate). 

A small helium-cooled infrared telescope is being prepared for 
space flight aboard the Shuttle-borne Spacelab 2 in partnership 



158 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



with the Steward Observatory of the University of Arizona and 
the Space Science Lab at nasa's Marshall Space Flight Center. The 
slow scanning telescope will provide data for mapping of diffuse 
infrared radiation and for studies of Shuttle-induced contamina- 
tion in a near-earth orbit. The superfluid helium refrigerant, one 
of the largest volumes of this substance to be flown in space, will 
provide a test and demonstration of helium management tech- 
niques. 

In October 1979, the balloon flight of the 102-centimeter tele- 
scope carried the high-resolution, far-infrared Fourier transform 
spectrometer (firs) to an altitude of 95,000 feet. At this altitude, it 
spent about ten hours measuring the far-infrared spectra of the 
Orion nebula, the Ml7 molecular cloud, and the terrestrial strato- 
sphere. Preliminary results include the first detection of a large 
number of spectral lines from shock-wave excited carbon monoxide 
in Orion, as well as the first far-infrared measurement of strato- 
spheric HC1, and the first detection of stratospheric peroxide, the 
latter two being important with regard to the chemistry of the 
ozone layer. 

Reduction of data from earlier flights of the balloon-borne tele- 
scope continues. The first far-infrared map of a giant molecular 
cloud and the follow-on observations of radio continuum and 
molecular line observations have shown that star formation is oc- 
curring throughout the cloud, not just at the end of the cloud 
containing the bright H II region, as previously thought. It is now 
important to understand what mechanism could have triggered the 
star formation simultaneously over such an extended region. Also, 
the first far-infrared map of the highly evolved H II region, M 16, 
was produced. This study of M 16 is important in understanding 
the later stages of evolution of star-forming regions. The first 
measurement of the far-infrared size of the extended dust cloud 
surrounding the carbon star, IRC+10216, was acquired, and it was 
determined that the mass loss from the star had to be considerably 
larger only two thousand years ago. 

A survey of the redshifts of galaxies tom = 14.5 in the northern 
hemisphere is now 99 percent complete. The Mt. Hopkins 60-inch 
telescope has been used in the mapping of the density and velocity 
field around the Virgo cluster. As a result, the measurement of 
the cosmological density parameter has been determined to be 



Science I 159 



n = 0.4. Systematic studies of mass-to-light ratio of elliptical 
galaxies are now possible with this large data set. 

Other ground-based studies include an extragalactic photog- 
raphy and photometry program using the new rca ccd camera, 
which this year concentrated on the newly discovered binary 
quasar and cD galaxies. New images were taken of cD galaxies in 
both poor clusters and rich clusters in an attempt to determine 
several structural parameters (size, absolute magnitude, occurrence 
of multiple nuclei, for example) as a function of cluster richness. 
An additional cD galaxy study is under way to obtain ccd images 
and Z-machine spectra of galaxies with multiple nuclei for a com- 
parison with x-ray images. 

Other programs included the extension of studies on the extra- 
galactic distance scale and determination of the Hubble ratio out 
to the Hercules cluster at v = 10,500 kilometers per second. 

PLANETARY SCIENCES 

The Planetary Sciences Division continued its investigations of 
solar system topics, particularly those relating to the smaller bodies 
and to the origin and early history of the solar system. 

For example, the century-old problem of the variable nongravita- 
tional motion of Comet Encke has been solved. It was found that 
the effect arises from the precession of the polar axis of the oblate 
nucleus induced by the jet action of sublimating ices. Because of the 
upcoming 1985 apparition, Comet Halley has come under special 
investigation. An activity map of the surface based on its period of 
rotation, 10 h 19 m , is planned. The rotation periods of some eighty 
other comets are also under study in an attempt to ascertain whether 
spin-up by sublimation occurs systematically with comet age. 

Other comet studies included an investigation of the asymmetric 
emission of four short-period comets. These studies used methods 
based on two models in which the observed peak activity was as- 
sumed to be, respectively, controlled by the surface insolation 
pattern and dominated by outgassing from a single active area on 
the rotating nucleus. Research by one division member on the dust 
tail of Comet Halley in 1910 and 1835 led to a dust production 
model for large particles. This work was extended to serve as the 
basis for a preliminary design concept of the dust-hazard shield 
for the proposed Halley fly-through spacecraft. 



160 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



A photograph obtained during the March 1979 encounter with 
Jupiter by Voyager I has showed a bright fireball on the jovian 
nightside. The phenomenon, believed to have been produced by an 
infalling meteoroid of mass 11 kilograms, is approximately ten 
times more likely to occur on Jupiter than on earth, based on a 
comparison of elapsed time of the observation (20 minutes) with 
the total time spent searching for fireballs. 

An examination of the evolution and stability of certain orbits 
in the lunar saturnian system has indicated that the two satellites 
recently discovered this year move in essentially the same orbit but 
180° apart and, at the same time, are in resonance with the well- 
known satellites, SII and SIV. 

A variety of programs ranging from attempts to detect extra- 
terrestrial neutrinos to the study of polar ice has been carried out 
by a division scientist. A by-product of the research on extra- 
terrestrial neutrinos is an interesting limit on the lifetime against 
decay of neutrons and protons. The studies on polar ice have led 
to detections of time variations in the carbon dioxide content of the 
atmosphere over the past few thousand years and have resulted in 
the development of a radon counting technique for the determi- 
nation of the ages of ice samples. 

Research on the early history of the solar system continues with 
the development of a model for the origin of the earth via accretion 
from a heliocentric planetesimal swarm, with the distribution of 
eccentricities of planetesimals a variable input. In this model, net 
angular momenta of materials captured by the earth and (via dis- 
integrative capture) by the terrestrial protolunar swarm are as- 
sessed, as well as amounts of crustal, mantle, and core material 
from the disrupted planetesimals. The rationalization of the angu- 
lar momentum of the earth-moon system and the composition of 
the moon is anticipated. 

Other studies of the early history of the solar system include 
the computation of evolutionary model sequences of giant gaseous 
protoplanets subject to imposed surface boundary conditions in- 
tended to represent embedding in the primitive solar nebula. Con- 
ditions were found in which the evolution of the protoplanets 
could be accelerated or retarded and in which the envelope could 
be evaporated away. 

A consortium to carry out a detailed study of the petrology, 



Science / 161 



chemical composition, and age dating of rock Apollo 16 Breccia 
67015 will be led by a division geologist. Preliminary to this ap- 
pointment was the examination and preparation of maps and 
descriptions of this breccia for a guidebook, published and dis- 
tributed by the Curator's Office, Lunar Science Institute, Houston, 
Texas. 

The International Astronomical Union's Central Bureau for 
Astronomical Telegrams, located at the Center for Astrophysics, 
continued under the direction of a division member. This year, 
some 115 IAU Circulars and some 30 telegram books were issued; 
the IAU's Minor Planet Center, also located on the premises and 
directed by the same staff member, issued some 650 Minor Planet 
Circulars during the year. Much progress was made in the im- 
provement of the Minor Planet Center's data base in machine- 
readable form. Work is also nearing completion on the compre- 
hensive catalogue of orbital elements of unnumbered minor 
planets, which will contain about 1900 orbits and extensively 
revises and corrects an earlier source. 

RADIO AND GEOASTRONOMY 

The combined research of the Radio and Geoastronomy Division 
concentrates on related programs in Very Long Baseline Inter- 
ferometry (vlbi), atmospheric research, and maser clock develop- 
ment and relativity. The division also administers sao's Satellite- 
Tracking Program. 

By use of an intercontinental array of vlbi antennas, the radio 
astronomy group has developed a new technique for estimating 
astronomical distances. The new method, similar to the statistical 
parallax method used by optical astronomers, involves the deter- 
mination of the relative position of the spots in maser sources by 
vlbi measurements and a comparison of the spectral components of 
the source's spectrum to a bright spot on the sky having a diameter 
of ~1 astronomical unit. The group now reports an accuracy 
approaching 50 microarcseconds in the measurement of the rela- 
tive positions of the spots in several maser sources. 

The study of the proper motion of thirty-five maser sources in 
the Orion Nebula resulted in the determination of a pattern that 
can be explained by a large-scale outflow of material from a central 
infrared emission object that is optically obscured. The group sug- 



162 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



gests that this object is a newly formed massive star with a strong 
stellar wind. By comparing the transverse and radial motions of 
the spots, they estimate the distance to the maser at 480 ± 80 
parsec. With this new method, attempts are planned to measure 
the distance to star-forming regions throughout the galaxy and in 
nearby galaxies with detectable masers. 

The vlbi group has also used the array in the continental United 
States to make an aperture synthesis image of the OH maser 
emission in the galactic H II region W75N. The maser spot distri- 
bution suggests that the stellar envelope is rotating at 10 kilo- 
meters per second. Using the vla, compact H II regions in the 
vicinities of OH and Hi-O masers have been mapped. The H II 
regions found are usually smaller than 1 second of arc and are 
probably caused by the ionizing radiation from newly formed stars 
of spectral type as late as B3-4. 

Radiofrequency studies of the hot ionized central regions of 
the Milky Way Galaxy have resulted in the identification of the 
following: a ring of hot, dense nebulae, intermixed with molecular 
clouds, orbiting about and expanding from the center; a region of 
warm, tenuous gas spread throughout the thousand-light-year 
extent inside the ring; and a unique region of hot, dense, swirling 
gas at the very center of the galaxy. 

In geophysical research, observational data from several satellite 
experiments (the mass-spectrometer measurements of ESR04, 
Atmospheric Explorer C, and the Air Force's S3-1 satellite, in par- 
ticular) have provided the base for the development of an im- 
proved model of the earth's thermosphere and exosphere. While 
the work encompasses all aspects of the neutral upper atmosphere, 
the main emphasis is on the geomagnetic variation and the diurnal 
variation, the two areas most in need of improvement in present 
models. The work has concentrated on the geomagnetic variation 
with the objectives of improving the modeling of the latitudinal 
profiles of exospheric temperature increase with respect to the 
level of geomagnetic disturbance and including variations in the 
profile with local time. Concurrently, a study of the time delay 
between a geomagnetic disturbance and its atmospheric effect and 
of the persistence of the atmospheric effect is also in progress, and 
an attempt to model the transition from a mainly diurnal model of 
temperature and composition variation in the region above 300 



Science I 163 



kilometers to a predominantly semidiurnal mode in the lower 
thermosphere. 

A member of the division has continued his research on the 
technical aspects of the use of long orbiting tethers. The Skyhook 
concept has been modified to test the theoretically more energy- 
efficient use of a tether for payload orbital transfer rather than the 
use of chemical rockets. 

Research on relativity carried out by members of the division 
includes an investigation of a new concept of time synchroniza- 
tion and frequency comparison by using a hydrogen maser clock 
in an earth-orbiting satellite. This frequency comparison accuracy 
is at the 10 -14 level and timing accuracy is at the subnanosecond 
level for any station on earth. 

The use of maser clocks, which have been demonstrated to have 
fractional frequency stabilities at the 10~ 10 level in spacecraft, has 
led to new concepts for testing relativistic gravitation and, in par- 
ticular, for detecting gravitational radiation. Also under study is 
the use of a time-correlated multiple-link doppler system for detect- 
ing very low frequency (10 -3 Hertz) pulses of gravitational radia- 
tion and for improving the precision of doppler tracking for a close 
approach solar probe mission to measure the mass distribution 
of the sun. 

The successful operation of a cryogenically cooled hydrogen 
maser at temperatures as low as 26 K has been achieved. A pro- 
gram of development and testing is now under way using two 
separate, newly constructed cryogenic masers. Demonstration ex- 
periments of relative stability data below the 1 X 10~ lfi level for 
time intervals of 600 seconds are in progress. 

The final results of the 1976 rocket probe redshift experiment 
were reported; and predictions of General Relativity were found 
to be valid at the 70 X 10"° level. 

As in the past, the sao Satellite-Tracking Network provided 
laser tracking coverage for geophysical research at sao and other 
organizations in the United States and abroad. This year, tracking 
focused on the high-orbiting lageos satellite as well as others in 
near-earth orbits. A total of five thousand passes of decimeter 
accuracy data will be acquired before the year is finished. 

The satellite data acquired were used in investigations of polar 
motion, earth and ocean tides, crustal motion and deformation, and 
in the determination of the gravity field and its temporal varia- 

164 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



tions. sao continued in its role as coordinator and United States 
interface for overseas laser tracking participants and, in particular, 
acted as a coordinator and computations center for the merit Cam- 
paign, an International Astronomical Union/International Union 
of Geodesy and Geophysics program to monitor polar motion and 
earth rotation. 

The accumulation of six years of laser ranging data on three 
satellites was used to measure global ocean tides by means of 
satellite perturbation analysis. This same study also provided 
measurement of earth body tides, and the determination of the 
near diurnal core mantle resonance and the semiannual tide for the 
first time. 

Routine calculations of the earth's polar motion with laser range 
measurements by lageos are under way, and pole positions are 
provided to the Bureau International de 1'Heure every five days. A 
successful combination of satellite-to-sea-surface altimetry data, 
oceanic hydrographic data, and surface-gravity data led to the 
calculation of a model of ocean circulation in the North Atlantic. 

SOLAR AND STELLAR PHYSICS 

Research activities in the Solar and Stellar Physics Division focus 
on understanding the physical processes in the sun and the stars. 
Major analysis programs center on data returned by Skylab with 
both the extreme ultraviolet spectrometer (euv) and the Apollo 
telescope mount (atm), by the heao 2 (Einstein Observatory), and 
the flight of the Lyman Alpha white light coronagraph. 

Skylab studies concentrated on magnetically confined plasma 
structure in the corona — for example, bright points, active region 
loops, sunspot loops and prominences. 

The analysis of Skylab's euv data on bright points showed 
quantitatively for the first time that bright points evolve and 
change in brightness over time scales as short as 5.5 minutes, the 
shortest time scale available from the data. This discovery suggests 
that the coronal heating in bright points is due to an intermittent 
impulsive heating mechanism, most likely one that releases energy 
stored in the coronal magnetic field. 

The investigation of temporal variations in coronal heating has 
been extended to a study of heating in active regions and polar 
plumes. The latter features are of particular interest because of 

Science I 165 



the suggestion that they are a source of coronal mass loss in cor- 
onal holes (which are a major source of high-speed solar wind 
streams). Thus far, no significant evidence for temporal variations 
in the brightness of polar plumes or the bright points that under- 
lay them has been found. 

A major accomplishment during this year was the completion 
of the preliminary Einstein Observatory stellar survey, which re- 
vealed that stars of virtually all types are x-ray emitters. Of partic- 
ular importance is the fact that both very early (hot) and very late 
(cool) stars have x-ray emission substantially greater than pre- 
dicted by "standard" theories of shock-heated stellar coronas. 
These new observations, combined with previous (Skylab) solar 
x-ray and euv observations, have led to theoretical studies of cor- 
onas heated by dynamo-generated magnetic fields. 

A vigorous program of the International Ultraviolet Explorer 
(iue) studies continued. Ultraviolet observations of Cyg X-l were 
analyzed in order to produce tighter constraints on the inclination 
of the system and the mass of the compact object. Observations of 
cataclysmic variables led to the conclusion that nuclear burning 
is the most plausible explanation for the 10—40 eV "blackbody" 
continuum emission components. Study of the Hyades giants 
showed a surprisingly large difference in transition-region emission 
for stars of the same age. The presence of high temperature species 
(C IV and Si IV) have been found to occur mainly but not neces- 
sarily around hot early-type stars and, it is thought, may result 
from photoionization of an H II region close by the star. And, 
surface activity on stars of the RS CVn type have been studied by 
using both iue and ground-based high-dispersion observations 
from the Mt. Hopkins Observatory. 

The Lyman Alpha white light coronagraph, flown aboard a 
rocket for the second time in February 1980, produced high-resolu- 
tion profiles of the Lyman Alpha profile scattered by coronal hydro- 
gen. Data are being analyzed, but initial results have shown, for 
the first time, the temperature in the high solar corona between 1.5 
and 3.0 solar radii. Results of a detailed definition study, per- 
formed to investigate the use of an improved version of the 
instrument on a seven- to fourteen-day Spacelab mission, indicated 
that the experiment has, potentially, the capability to obtain unique 
spectroscopic information. 



166 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Under the Smithsonian-supported Langley-Abbot Program of 
Solar Research, a study of the solar flare of September 7, 1973, has 
been completed. It was determined that the flare exemplifies a class 
of transient events that are characterized by the disruption of the 
magnetic configuration, by continuous energy deposition, and by 
prolonged injection of mass possibly from the associated promi- 
nence. 

The joint Harvard-Smithsonian Speckle Image Reconstruction 
Program saw valuable progress made during the past year. Impor- 
tant technical developments include completion of the video data- 
recording and digitization system, development of a photon noise 
bias compensation procedure, and the testing of both the camera 
and processing procedure at very low photon levels and the ex- 
tensive testing with real and laboratory-produced data. Full image 
reconstruction of the 0'.'05 separation binary star Capella from 
fewer than 25 speckle images taken at the 5-meter telescope indi- 
cated that diffraction-limited image recovery is possible at even the 
largest telescopes. 

THEORETICAL ASTROPHYSICS 

The Theoretical Astrophysics Division carries out research on a 
diverse range of astrophysical phenomena, with theoretical studies 
often applied to the support and interpretation of observational 
data. This year, valuable progress was made in the understanding 
of magnetic fields, photodissociation processes, interstellar clouds, 
globular clusters, accretion flows and mass outflows, galactic struc- 
ture and formation, radiation processes, and the effects of x-rays. 

For example, analysis of x-ray data from the Einstein Observa- 
tory on M87, an elliptical galaxy in the center for the Virgo cluster 
of galaxies, led to the discovery that M87 had a massive halo equal 
to about 10 13 solar masses. Satellite data have also been used by 
another member of the division in a study of large-scale structures 
in the universe, in which cross-correlation techniques are used to 
set interesting upper limits on the contribution of various types 
of discrete sources to the background. So far, uhuru data have been 
examined; future plans include application of the techniques to the 
heao 2 returns. 

Another program based on satellite data involves the use of the 
iue to monitor the ultraviolet variability of Type I Seyfert galaxies. 



Science I 167 



Simultaneous observations were made in the II radii, infrared, 
optical, and x-ray spectra of III Zwicky 2 and Markarian 509, to 
date. In spite of the similarity of their optical properties and over- 
all energy distributions from the infrared to the x-ray, the vari- 
ability observations indicate that the physical conditions in these 
objects differ significantly. 

On the theoretical side, work on possible modes of baryon and 
lepton nonconservation, and the implications for cosmology, con- 
tinues. In other studies, a calculation of the behavior of adiabatic 
perturbations during the era of recombination showed, contrary 
to previous belief, that the Zel'dovich pancake model of galaxy 
formation could not be viable. Another effort saw the nature of 
perturbations larger than the horizon clarified. 

The theoretical modeling of the effect of x-rays on the normal 
component of x-ray binary systems continues. Models for the struc- 
ture of x-ray-illuminated stellar atmospheres are complete; and a 
model for optical and ultraviolet light curves of the illuminated 
atmospheres for use in the interpretation of observations of several 
sources has been developed. 

A division member has developed a modification to the Kolmo- 
gorov-Smirnov likelihood test that allows incorporation of measure- 
ment errors and applied it to the determination of masses of x-ray 
sources in globular clusters. Another study of globular clusters in- 
volves age determination by means of a nonlinear statistical fitting 
procedure. This process simultaneously determines the several 
parameters necessary to describe a cluster color magnitude diagram; 
preliminary results for NGC 6752 suggest that an age less than ten 
billion years is consistent with observations. 

In an attempt to explain the spectra of x-ray bursters, model 
atmospheres of neutron stars have been examined. In addition, the 
escape probability methods for predicting spectra from rapidly 
expanding or contracting media have been the subjects of investiga- 
tion, as has the theory of alpha-omega dynamos, i.e., the implica- 
tions of the theory for the creation of twisted magnetic fields. 

Other areas of division research include the development and 
application of the methods of quantum mechanics to atomic and 
molecular processes with emphasis on energy-related problems and 
studies of the role of atomic and molecular processes in astro- 
physical and atmospheric phenomena. 



168 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute 

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (stri) is devoted to 
basic research on tropical plants and animals, including human 
beings. Students, staff, and visiting scientists at stri study the ways 
in which tropical organisms find food, reproduce, and avoid being 
eaten, how they cooperate and compete, and how the communities 
of these plants and animals are organized. The stunning variety of 
ways in which tropical species cope with the various problems in- 
volved in staying alive and perpetuating their kind provides an 
essential perspective on the more familiar forms of life in the tem- 
perate zone. The tropics abound with some of the most spectacular 
instances of specialization, and relationships between different 
species are most complex there. A student can learn how evolution 
works from examples of adaptation at its most precise, as well as 
from the wealth of possible comparisons. Finally, we may learn 
something of how human populations might live in better balance 
with the environment by studying how the "balance of nature" is 
maintained in natural communities. At stri, the process of testing 
and improving our understanding of tropical life has gained strength 
through over half a century of descriptive, experimental, and 
theoretical work on Barro Colorado Island and in other terrestrial 
and marine communities, both in Panama and in other parts of the 
tropics. 

To facilitate tropical research, stri administers the Barro Colorado 
Nature Monument, and maintains a large research library, marine 
laboratories on both coasts, a research vessel, a field station in the 
San Bias Islands off the Caribbean coast of Panama, and a support 
staff to assist both visitors and resident scientists with the tasks 
associated with living and doing research in a foreign country. 

A new system of large tanks supplied with running seawater has 
been installed at the Pacific marine laboratory on Naos Island, 
permitting a much greater variety of experimental work with marine 
organisms. This system was formally opened July 10, and the 
President of the Republic of Panama and the Archbishop of Panama 
attended the opening ceremonies. 

The Barro Colorado Nature Monument now includes not only 
the 1,500 hectares of Barro Colorado Island, but 3,900 hectares of 
mainland areas adjacent to the island. These include areas of mature 



Science I 169 



moist forest and some habitats not available on Barro Colorado 
Island, such as swamp-forest. Through joint agreement of the 
governments of the United States and Panama, this area enjoys 
strict protection. In 1980, Dr. Gilberto Ocana (former Dean of the 
Faculty of Agronomy at the University of Panama) was appointed 
to stri as the superintendent of this rich and varied area. 

The National Directorate of Renewable Resources (renare) of the 
Republic of Panama has set aside 22,000 hectares of forest in the 
former Canal Zone as the Parque Nacional Soberania, or Sover- 
eignty National Park. This park includes Summit Gardens and the 
Pipeline Road area, and borders the Barro Colorado Nature 
Monument to the north and west. The park represents a major com- 
mitment by the Panamanian government to the cause of conserva- 
tion and will greatly enhance the value of the monument. Members 
of the Panamanian National Guard have been seconded on a 
temporary basis to assist stri game wardens, and thereby gain 
experience in the protection of forest reserves. Dr. N. Smythe, head 
of stri's Office of Conservation and Environmental Education, is 
facilitating the development of educational programs and a policy 
for scientific research in the new park. 

The harvest to be reaped from tropical biology is immense, and 
the laborers are few. To help remedy this situation, educational 
opportunities in tropical biology are offered at stri through 
predoctoral and postdoctoral short-term fellowships and assistant- 
ships. Funding is provided through the Scholarly Studies Program 
of the Smithsonian Institution, the Edward John Noble Founda- 
tion, and the Educational Outreach Program of stri. Fellowships 
for students from outside the United States are also given through 
the Exxon Corporation. Georgina de Alba has been appointed 
Educational Coordinator to handle fellowship applications and 
arrange for their disposition. 

During this year, thirty-five pre- and postdoctoral students par- 
ticipated in research of their own design or that of staff members. 
The results of their efforts, as well as studies made by visiting 
scientists, were presented in seventy-five seminars given at stri. 

A backbone of the scientific effort at stri continues to be the in- 
dividual research project in Panama. Harilaos Lessios is continuing 
to study the reproductive biology and ecology of sea urchins. He 
has shown that Diadema antillarum is a major element of erosion 



170 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



in the massive coral Colpophyllia nutans. Dr. Lessios has also shown 
that the reproductive isolation of geminate species of sea urchins 
from the two coasts of Panama arise in allopatry. This has not been 
found for other populations which were split by the formation of the 
Isthmus of Panama some three million years ago. During the year, 
Dr. Lessios gave papers at the American Society of Zoologists' 
meeting in Tampa, Florida, the meeting of the Association of Island 
Marine Laboratories of the Caribbean in Jamaica, and the Benthic 
Ecology Meetings in Williamsburg, Virginia. 

In an attempt to learn why they migrate, sometimes in spectacular 
numbers, Neal Smith has been studying the host plant Omphalea 
diandra of the migratory day-flying moth Urania. It appears that 
after three successive defoliations by Urania larvae, Omphalea puts 
out leaves which are far more toxic. The moths may migrate in 
search of edible food plants. Dr. Smith was one of several stri 
scientists to work with the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory and the 
Hydroelectric Resources Institute (irhe) of Panama in a survey of 
plants and animals near the Changuinola River in the Bocas del 
Toro province of Panama. He is also collaborating with Dr. Robert 
Ridgely in expanding and revising the Field Guide to the Birds of 
Panama. Dr. Smith gave seminars at several universities in the 
northeastern United States, stressing the frequently complex and 
unusual interactions between plants and animals in the tropics, and 
participated in the Educators Conference at Washington, D.C. 

Hindrik Wolda has continued his studies on seasonal rhythms 
and longer-term fluctuations of insect populations on Barro Colo- 
rado Island, and has completed a one-year study of seasonal 
rhythms in the catches of insects at light traps in a moderately non- 
seasonal forest in Bocas del Toro. Dr. Wolda also served as the stri 
coordinator of surveys financed by irhe in this area. He collaborated 
with a group from the University of Leeds in England studying 
insect populations in forested areas on Panama's Caribbean coast. 
Dr. Wolda participated in the International Congress for Systematic 
and Evolutionary Biology in Vancouver, and he has recently been 
appointed to the Royal Dutch Academy of Sciences. 

Robert Silberglied completed a series of experiments on the role 
of multiple mating in the butterfly Anartia. Silberglied and co- 
workers have continued to study genetic incompatibility between 
Anartia amathea and A. fatima in laboratories on Barro Colorado 



Science I 171 



Island and at Harvard University. These populations are in what 
could be called the final stage of speciation, partial reproductive 
isolation. Dr. Silberglied presented two invited papers at the Sym- 
posium on Neotropical Lepidoptera and the American Lepidop- 
terists' Society. He also taught classes in arthropod biology and in 
the evolutionary biology of Lepidoptera at Harvard University. 

Predoctoral and postdoctoral fellows have pursued diverse 
studies with the financial aid of stri. Francis Putz, a graduate stu- 
dent at Cornell University, is finishing a study on the ecology of 
lianas, focusing on the different modes by which they grow, and 
their ecological significance, and on the factors limiting their 
abundance and growth rate. He has also collaborated with Annette 
Aiello and others in the study of the causes of death in tropical 
trees, and how it is related to site, strength of wood, and other 
factors. Phyllis Coley, a graduate student at the University of 
Chicago, has just completed a study comparing the rates at which 
insects eat young leaves and mature ones, and the rate at which 
insects eat the leaves of pioneer saplings which can only establish 
and grow in large clearings, compared to the leaves of saplings of 
mature forest. She finds that young leaves, and leaves of pioneer 
saplings, are indeed eaten more readily. Further, the primary pro- 
tection of a mature leaf lies not in its chemical defenses, but in its 
toughness and lack of protein. 

Michael Ryan, another graduate student at Cornell University, is 
studying sexual selection in a frog, Physalaemus. Females apparently 
prefer to mate with larger males, and they can be shown experi- 
mentally to be attracted to males with deeper calls, which tend to 
be the larger males. He has collaborated in a study of how the 
nature of the frog's call is related to the presence of predatory 
bats: the most attractive call is also the one whose source the bats 
can locate most easily. Ryan's study is unusual in that it permits 
one to document quite precisely the role of female choice in a male's 
mating success. Raymond Highsmith, a postdoctoral fellow, is 
studying the effect that boring organisms have on the shapes and 
distributions of corals; he finds that corals of more productive 
habitats suffer more from the activities of boring organisms. He 
also finds that some corals have taken advantage of their sus- 
ceptibility by acquiring the ability to regenerate from dispersed 
fragments. Steven Hoffman, a postdoctoral fellow, is studying the 



172 / Smithsonian Year 1980 










stri biologist and orchid specialist Dr. Robert Dressier discusses reproductive ecology 
of high-elevation plants with students at the Instituto Nacional in Xalapa, Veracruz, 
Mexico. (Photo by Kerry Ann Dressier.) Below. Within a split second of catching a 
frog is the fringe-lipped bat, Trachops cirrhosus. The relationship of the frog's call 
and the presence of predatory bats is the subject of an unusual research study sup- 
ported by stri. (Photo by Marlin D. Tuttle.) 




effect of artificially increased food supply on the behavior of 
territory-holding male coral reef fish in the San Bias Islands: will 
increasing food supply cause them to grow faster or seek more 
matings or both? James Ackermann, a graduate student from Florida 
State University, and Arlee Montalvo continued a long-term study 
on the pollination ecology of Spathiphyllum, a plant that flowers 
year round and receives visits from different species of bees at 
different times of the year. They also continued the first long-term 
study of the abundance and phenology of bees that pollinate 
orchids. 

Barbara Thorne, predoctoral fellow from Harvard University, 
made intensive studies of the arboreal termite, Nasutitermes corni- 
ger. She found that young colonies are very susceptible to preda- 
tion. Possibly as a means of escape from the precarious status of a 
small colony, colonies often contained multiple egg-laying queens, 
a feature scarcely known for termites. 

Studies have been pursued not only by fellows visiting for a year 
or more, but also by short-term fellows visiting for three months 
or less. Carol Todzia studied the distribution of different kinds of 
hemiepiphytes, plants, such as strangler figs, which start as epi- 
phytes but later drop roots to the ground, on Barro Colorado Island. 
She showed that different species of hemiepiphytes tended to be 
found on different kinds of host plant; this appeared related to 
how the seeds of the different hemiepiphytes were dispersed. 
Gayle Vande Kerckhove has been studying the distribution of 
lichens on tree trunks, finding that light conditions, competitive 
relationships, and susceptibility to grazing animals such as land 
snails are all important. 

Some short-term studies have long-lasting results. Patricia Parker 
came from the University of North Carolina for three months to 
study the social dynamics of a roost of black vultures, a group 
which returned to sleep together every night. She trained two 
Panamanian volunteers to trap, tag, age, and sex these vultures. 
One volunteer, Carlos Ayarza, has been studying the interactions 
between populations of black vultures based on Flamenco Island 
and on Ancon Hill, and the other, Guillermo Garcia de Paredes, ha^s 
been studying the development of vultures by following marked 
vultures of known age. Both studies will lead to undergraduate 
theses at the University of Panama. 



174 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Other students from Panama and elsewhere have been learning 
techniques of research at stri. Victoria Batista, from the Universi- 
dad de Bogota, has been studying the community of plants and 
animals inhabiting the arching roots of the red mangrove at stri's 
Caribbean marine station, mastering the taxonomy and natural 
history of a great variety of organisms in the process. Rene 
Mariscal has been studying the feeding habits and territorial be- 
havior of the crab Pachygrapsus transversus, and assessing its role 
in the rocky intertidal community of the Pacific coast of Panama. 

Some members of the stri staff are participating in larger-scale 
research projects. Supported by a Scholarly Studies grant, David 
Roubik and twelve collaborators completed studies on the pollina- 
tion ecology of various trees and shrubs in central Panama. Dr. 
Roubik also showed that nectar-robbing social bees affect the 
reproductive ecology of the forest shrub Pavonia dasypetala by 
aggressive competition with the hummingbird pollinator of the 
plant. Working with Juan Barria, Luis Porras, Karen Clary, and 
Anne Cully, he has started a pollen reference collection to study 
the pollination ecology of Panamanian plants. Dr. Roubik, with 
James Ackerman and others, has been monitoring the population 
dynamics of solitary euglossine bees and highly social stingless bees 
as preparation for a study of the ecological impact of Africanized 
honeybees, which are expected to invade in a few years. Dr. Roubik 
participated in the Smithsonian Interscience Conference at Front 
Royal, Virginia, and was invited speaker on the biology of the 
Africanized honeybee at the Gobernacion del Valle in Cali, 
Colombia. 

One way to learn how tropical communities are organized is to 
study how different kinds of plants and animals respond to sea- 
sonal and longer-term changes in their physical environment, and 
in the abundance of food or predators. The Environmental Sciences 
Program has accordingly instituted monitoring of selected features 
of climate and the physical environment, and of the responses of 
selected biological populations. During the past year, Dr. Donald 
Windsor has assumed responsibility for coordinating the various 
projects funded by the Smithsonian's Environmental Sciences Pro- 
gram. He is also continuing his comparative studies of cassidine 
beetles (tortoise beetles), seeking to understand the varied life his- 
tories, ranging from solitary to presocial, displayed within this group. 



Science I 175 



On Barro Colorado Island, the monitoring program keeps record 
of rainfall into the runoff from a 10-hectare catchment, the mois- 
ture content of the top 5 cm of soil, temperature, humidity, and 
wind; it also keeps records on the times of leaf production, leaf 
fall, fruiting, and flowering in several hundred trees, and the catches 
of insects at light traps. Under Dr. Windsor's direction, it is focus- 
ing on how fruit production in selected species of trees varies from 
year to year. Many species under study flower in response to the 
onset of the rainy season and will not flower or fruit if the preced- 
ing dry season is not sufficiently intense. The monitoring program 
is used to document more precisely the relation between climate 
and fruit production in these trees. Several scientists, financed from 
other sources, are studying the impact of variation in the fruit 
production of these trees on selected animal populations. 

Egbert Leigh, Jr., Donald Windsor, and Stanley Rand have 
finished their editing of a collection of papers by many authors on 
various aspects of the ecology of Barro Colorado Island. Much of 
this work was financed by the Environmental Sciences Program. 
Many of the authors in this book are reporting on work they did 
on Barro Colorado Island as graduate students or postdoctoral 
fellows. The book is intended to report on the extent to which we 
understand the ecology of Barro Colorado Island. 

At stri's Caribbean marine laboratory, on Galeta Point, John 
Cubit runs a monitoring program on the reef flat. With Ricardo 
Thompson, John Kilar, and Mark Hay, Dr. Cubit followed monthly 
changes in biomass, population density, and growth rates of the 
predominant plant and animal species living on the reef in relation 
to weather and tidal fluctuations. They have also studied factors 
limiting the distribution on the reef flat of individual species of 
plants. 

Work performed by stri staff in other parts of the world provides 
often essential perspective on studies here in Panama. Dr. Ross 
Robertson stayed for four months at Palau in the western Pacific, 
studying the relationship of population density to social behavior 
and sexual dimorphism in size among surgeonfishes. While in the 
western Pacific, he documented the first case of coprophagy by 
reef fishes (a process common among mammalian folivores), and 
also showed that the spawning migrations of reef fishes from the 
cover of reefs to more open areas were strongly influenced by preda- 
tion on the fish. 



176 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Michael Robinson and Barbara Robinson returned from Wau, 
Papua New Guinea, where they led a team of American and New 
Guinean researchers in diverse studies of ecology and behavior of 
spiders and insects. With support from a Scholarly Studies grant, 
Yael Lubin and H. W. Levi joined the Robinsons for studies on 
arachnid biology. Dr. Robinson returned to Panama to take the 
responsibilities of acting director of stri. The Robinsons presented 
papers at the International Congress of Arachnology in Vienna, and 
Dr. Robinson also gave a seminar on predatory behavior during a 
symposium at Glasgow, Scotland. This year saw completion and 
publication of the Robinson's five-year study on courtship and mat- 
ing behavior of tropical araneid spiders, a study involving fifty 
species of orb-web spiders occurring throughout the tropical world. 

Alan Smith completed the fourth year of a study on convergent 
evolution of tropical plants growing about the tree line, such as 
the giant Senecio of Mount Kenya, Puya and Espeletia of the 
Andes, Echium of the Canary Islands, and Argyroxiphium growing 
on Hawaiian volcanoes. Dr. Smith is pursuing comparative studies 
on the physiology, ecology, and reproductive biology of these 
genera to account for some of their striking similarities. He recently 
demonstrated the considerable "cost of reproduction" to Senecio 
keniodendron, which experiences significant mortality following 
reproduction. Dr. Smith is currently exploring the costs and benefits 
of the deciduous and evergreen characteristics of different species 
of Calathea in Panama. 

With aid from a Scholarly Studies grant, G. Gene Montgomery 
collaborated with the Instituto Nacional da Pesquisas de Amazonia 
in Manaus, Brazil, on the biology and conservation of the manatee, 
a large aquatic mammalian herbivore that inhabits the shallow 
waters of tropical estuaries and rivers. Dr. Montgomery also con- 
tinued studies on the giant anteaters of the Amazon Basin. While 
engaged in studies of the distribution and abundance of manatees 
in the Panama Canal area, Dr. Montgomery began editing a forth- 
coming volume on edentate biology, to follow a large collection of 
papers that he edited, recently published by the Smithsonian In- 
stitution Press: The Ecology of Arboreal Folivores. 

Egbert Leigh continued a joint study with R. T. Paine, of the 
University of Washington, on the causes of zonation among in- 
tertidal organisms on the rocky shores of Tatoosh, just off the north- 
west tip of the Olympic Peninsula in Washington. This community 



Science I 177 



is far more susceptible to the effects of manipulating the abundance 
of a single species, such as starfish, sea urchins, or seagulls, than is 
the forest community of Barro Colorado. When not occupied with 
editing the book on Barro Colorado, Dr. Leigh also worked on 
various mathematical theories relating to ecology and evolution, 
such as the average lifetime of a population in a varying environ- 
ment. 

During travel abroad this year, stri staff shared their scientific 
experience by attending thirty-five scientific meetings and present- 
ing more than thirty-eight seminars as invited lecturers. Peter 
Glynn spent much of the year on sabbatical at Stanford University, 
and while working with the population biology group of that in- 
stitution gave several seminars on coral reef ecology. In collabora- 
tion with E. Druffel and R. Dunbar, Scripps Institute of Oceanog- 
raphy, Dr. Glynn was able to show that the "Little Ice Age" of 
approximately three hundred years ago adversely affected coral 
reefs on the Pacific coast of Central America because of a lowering 
of seawater temperature brought about by northern hemispheric 
cooling. Jerry Wellington and Peter Glynn have completed a book 
on the corals and coral reefs of the Galapagos Islands. 

Olga Linares also profited from an invited fellowship at Stanford 
University, at the Center for Advanced Studies in the Behavioral 
Sciences. Continuing preparation of a book on the Diola peoples of 
southern Senegal, Dr. Linares lectured at the Anthropology De- 
partment of ucla and at Stanford, while taking advantage of the 
unique opportunity for discussion of African social anthropology 
with a distinguished group of Center fellows. 

Robert Dressier was resident lecturer on the reproductive ecology 
of seed plants at the Instituto Nacional para la Investigacion de 
Recursos Bioticos in Xalapa, Mexico, and also gave seminars on 
orchid biology at other Mexican institutions. Dr. Dressier spoke at 
the Second International Congress on Systematic and Evolutionary 
Biology in Vancouver, then traveled to Cambridge, Massachusetts, 
to consult with the Harvard University Press on the coming publica- 
tion of a book prepared during the past two years: The Orchids: 
Natural History and Classification. 

William Eberhard and Mary Jane West-Eberhard were workshop 
lecturers on sociobiology during part of the year at the Indian 
Institute of Science and Tata Institute in Mahableshwar. Bill pre- 



178 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



sented an invited paper at a congress on the evolutionary origin of 
eukaryotic organelles, sponsored by the New York Academy of 
Sciences. Dr. Eberhard teaches evolutionary biology at the Uni- 
versidad de Costa Rica in San Jose and continues research on the 
behavior and ecology of orb-weaving spiders. Mary Jane is be- 
ginning long-term studies of Costa Rican social wasps, including 
behavioral studies of an unusual species in which the males use 
glandular secretions to mark mating trails which they patrol. The 
trails appear to be maintained over successive years by males from 
different colonies. Dr. West-Eberhard was visiting lecturer at the 
University of Texas, but declined invitations to lecture at univer- 
sities in Berlin and Japan. 

Martin Moynihan traveled to the People's Republic of China 
with the Smithsonian Institution delegation, exploring future pos- 
sibilities of collaboration between stri scientists and the scientists 
of that nation. While in India, as delegate to the Indo-United States 
Commission on Science and Technology meeting in New Delhi, Dr. 
Moynihan continued his studies on the coraciiforme birds of 
southern India. The fourth book published by Dr. Moynihan, en- 
titled Geographic Variations in Social Behavior and in Adaptations 
to Competition among Andean Birds, appeared through the ornith- 
ological publications of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, 
Harvard University. In addition, with Arcadio Rodinache, Dr. 
Moynihan completed a book on comparative studies of cephalopod 
behavior. 

Stan Rand and Gordon Burghardt co-edited a volume now in 
press on Iguanas of the World: Behavior, Ecology and Conservation. 
Dr. Rand also attended a conference on crocodilian biology in 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where he presented a paper with K. Troyer 
on parental care. At a meeting of the Man and the Biosphere Direc- 
torate for Tropical Forests, at the State Department in Washington, 
D.C., he reported on ecosystem research on Barro Colorado Island. 
Dr. Rand collaborated on the iRHE-sponsored inventory of amphi- 
bians in Bocas del Toro Province, Panama. 



Science I 179 




Recent gifts to the Museum of African Art are these deble (so-called rhythm 
pounders), representing ancestors or deities. The male figure, with his titulary crest, 
is uncommon. The existence of such a pair of fertility figures — these are from Senufo, 
of the Ivory Coast — is extremely rare. 



Smithsonian Year - 1980 
HISTORY AND ART 



CHARLES BLITZER, 
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR HISTORY AND ART 



Archives of American Art 

In fiscal year 1980, the Archives of American Art celebrated its 
twenty-fifth year of service to scholarship in American art history. 
The year 1980 also marked the tenth anniversary of the Archives' 
Smithsonian affiliation. The events and achievements of the year 
are evidence of the continuing growth implied by these chrono- 
logical milestones. 

Acquisitions in 1980 followed a pattern set many years ago: a 
fairly equal representation of the papers of artists and the papers 
of individuals active in other aspects of the art world. A strong 
presence of museum and other institutional records is also a regular 
feature. One of the larger collections received, the Gertrude Vander- 
bilt Whitney Papers, cuts across all lines. As artist, collector, patron, 
and museum founder, Mrs. Whitney was a major force in American 
art during the first half of the twentieth century; her correspond- 
ence, diaries, unpublished manuscripts, and photographs reveal 
these activities in voluminous detail. They are a valuable source for 
social history as well, the photographs alone providing a graphic 
record of New York society in its most opulent phase. 

The most notable nineteenth-century acquisition is the papers 
of the marine and landscape painter William Trost Richards (1833- 
1905), whose correspondence with his own family and with such 
major figures as Samuel Putnam Avery and Thomas Eakins offers 
important documentation on Richards's career. An unusual element 
in these papers consists of twenty-eight volumes of manuscript 
magazines written by and for members of the Richards family and 
illustrated profusely by the artist. 



181 



The late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries are reflected in 
the H. Siddons Mowbray Papers, which include diaries, autobio- 
graphical writings, photographs, and letters from J. Carroll Beck- 
with, Edwin Blashfield, Charles McKim, Augustus Saint Gaudens, 
and Booker T. Washington. Also represented is another turn-of-the- 
century painter, Otto Bacher, a close friend of William Merritt 
Chase, John Singer Sargent, and Robert Blum. Among the Otto 
Bacher papers is a series of photographs that show these and other 
artists at what appear to be bacchanalian revelries, while a sub- 
stantial group of letters from Blum, many of them charmingly 
illustrated, provide useful information on Blum's life and work. 

Twentieth-century artists whose papers were received this year 
include Thomas Hart Benton, Hugh Breckenridge, James Brooks, 
Raphael Soyer, and Denys Wortman. There are also additions to 
the records of two other painters and graphic artists, Rockwell Kent 
and Louis Lozowick. In the case of the former, there are several 
hundred letters exchanged between Kent and his friend and admirer 
Dan Burne Jones dealing chiefly with Kent's work as illustrator and 
printmaker. The supplement to Lozowick's papers throws new light 
on artists' organizations of the 1930s, particularly on that well- 
known but sparsely documented group, the John Reed Club of 
New York. 

In its pursuit of documentation on the arts in America, the 
Archives finds some of its best material in the papers of dealers, 
critics, collectors, and museums. Acquisitions made in 1980 were 
especially rich in such records. A diary kept by the Boston patron 
and collector Desmond Fitzgerald from the 1870s to the 1920s 
describes his growing involvement in the building of a major art 
collection as well as his active role in the Boston art world. Another 
substantial Boston acquisition is a large group of business records 
and correspondence of the Vose Galleries, probably the oldest art 
dealership in the country. The archives of the Museum of Fine Arts 
in Houston are now available on microfilm and a long-term project 
to film the records of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, was com- 
pleted. 

The papers of Leonard Clayton, a New York dealer for nearly 
fifty years, provide excellent material on Childe Hassam, Augustus 
Vincent Tack, and others. This collection includes two unrelated but 
informative sets of papers — records of the Marie Sterner Gallery in 



182 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



the early 1920s; and reminiscences of the sculptor James E. Kelly, 
which offer vivid glimpses of the late nineteenth-century artists 
Winslow Homer, Albert Pinkham Ryder, William Harnett, and 
Napoleon Sarony. 

Two of the most significant collections of the year are the papers 
of the scholars and curators A. Hyatt Mayor and Alfred Barr. 
Mayor, a prominent authority on prints and curator of prints at the 
Metropolitan Museum, is represented by manuscripts of articles 
and speeches and by correspondence with artists, art historians, 
dealers, and collectors. Alfred Barr's records fully reflect his leader- 
ship at the Museum of Modern Art over nearly forty years and his 
influential role as a vigorous partisan of contemporary art. 

The papers of the late Bernard Reis, accountant, collector, and 
financial adviser to artists, contain an extremely lengthy corre- 
spondence with Peggy Guggenheim and useful if less numerous 
letters from Philip Guston, Jacques Lipchitz, Edward Albee, Sir 
Herbert Read, Marc Chagall, and Larry Rivers. A portion of the 
material touches on the celebrated Mark Rothko estate case, in 
which Reis played a major role. 

Photographs of artists, particularly in a studio setting, are al- 
ways of interest and often useful as a form of documentation. An 
unusually fine group of photographs of forty-two American artists 
in the early 1950s includes revealing portraits of such well-known 
figures as Milton Avery, Isabel Bishop, Edwin Dickinson, Edward 
Hopper, Jack Levine, Raphael Soyer, and William Zorach. 

The Archives made a special effort this year to gather the records 
of the womens' art movement of the past two decades. Valuable 
information on this still-growing development appears in the files 
of three cooperative feminist galleries and three womens' art 
organizations. 

The Archives Oral History Program continued its campaign to 
create an alternative form of documentation of twentieth-century 
American art. A two-year, $30,000 West Coast project supported 
by foundation grants began a systematic attempt to cover both 
northern and southern California in fiscal year 1980. The Midwest 
regional office extended its preliminary exploration of videotaped 
interviews with a highly productive session with the photographer 
Barbara Morgan. The Archives centers in Boston and New York 
captured the reminiscences and observations of several figures of 



History and Art I 183 



prominence in the art world, most notably Allan Rohan Crite, John 
Davis Hatch, Nathan Halper, and Mrs. Walter Gropius. 

Use of the Archives is measured by the number of research visits 
to its study centers; 2,710 visits, chiefly by graduate students, 
curators, and faculty members, represent a 10 percent increase over 
the previous year. Books, articles, lectures, exhibition catalogues, 
and dissertations based on Archives resources are the concrete 
results of research. An unusually high number of such publications 
appeared in fiscal year 1980, including a volume of the Metro- 
politan Museum collection catalogue, a French scholar's survey of 
American art, a biography of Rockwell Kent, an interpretation of 
American landscape painting, and exhibition catalogues on Lumin- 
ism, Treasury Department murals of the 1930s, Farm Security 
Administration photographs in Ohio, the New York World's Fair 
of 1939-40, and the students of Howard Pyle. Among exhibition 
catalogues of the work of individual artists, those on Oscar 
Bluemner, Marsden Hartley, Edward Hopper, Thomas Moran, John 
Singer Sargent, and Marguerite Wildenhain were particularly note- 
worthy. 

The Archives' own publication program rests primarily on its 
quarterly Archives of American Art Journal, whose pages regularly 
report on Archives' recent acquisitions and regional activities, and 
on the results of research by historians of American art. Two 
additional undertakings in 1980 were a catalogue of the documents 
displayed with a John Singer Sargent exhibition in Detroit, and 
guidelines for the handling of museum records. The crowning 
achievement of the Archives' publication program, however, was 
the appearance of the long-awaited Arts in America: A Bibli- 
ography, a four-volume, comprehensive guide to the literature on 
American art, a work described by one reviewer as "magisterial." 

In January the Archives organized a three-day national con- 
ference on the administration of art museum records. Attended by 
museum and other archivists, librarians, and registrars, the con- 
ference addressed itself to questions of evaluation, preservation, and 
access, and drew up a detailed set of guidelines that has elicited an 
extraordinary response from museums here and abroad. 

A scholarly contribution of another kind was the Archives' 
cosponsorship of three well-attended and well-received symposia: 
on Washington Allston, on Boston and the Avant Garde, and on 



184 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Michigan's cultural heritage. The Archives lent artists' letters and 
photographs to serve as documentary sections in several museum 
exhibitions, most notably the major John Singer Sargent show 
held at the Detroit Institute of Arts from October to December. 
Archives staff members delivered eighteen lectures during the year, 
published four articles and a catalogue essay, and gave papers at 
the American Historical Association annual meeting and at the 
Ninth International Sculpture Conference held in Washington, D.C. 
These examples of educational service and contributions to 
scholarship represent a growing phase of the Archives' program. 
They are an appropriate expression of the maturity gained during 
twenty-five years of existence. 



Cooper-Hewitt Museum 

An active program at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum continued in 
fiscal year 1980 to attract the interest and acclaim of the public, 
professionals, and critics alike. During the course of the year, the 
museum mounted thirteen new exhibitions, published five new 
catalogues to accompany exhibitions and five new books, and 
produced numerous varied and well-attended education programs. 

EXHIBITIONS 

The major fall exhibition, Smithsonian, filled the entire museum 
with eight hundred objects borrowed from all branches of the 
Institution, ranging in size from coins to cars. 

A very popular show, The Oceanliner: Speed, Style, Symbol, 
opened on the second-floor galleries in January. In exploring the 
three themes, the museum assembled plans, cutaways, furnishings, 
paper memorabilia, and the ubiquitous souvenir. For the audience, 
it provided a nostalgic view of an era that had passed. According 
to New York Times critic Ada Louise Huxtable, "the show was a 
thoughtful analysis of the design aspect of the oceanliner." 

A Century of Ceramics in the United States, 1878-1978 came to 
the Cooper-Hewitt as a traveling show organized by the Everson 
Museum of Art in Syracuse. The 250 objects offered a compre- 
hensive view of American ceramics. 



History and Art I 185 



Collections exhibitions have been an important focus in 1980. 
Shows on Glass and Furniture provided excellent opportunities to 
display these important collections, while Tiles, with examples 
dating back to the sixteenth century, offered an unusual visual 
experience. 

Spectacular Spaces, exhibited as part of a larger show in Cologne, 
Germany, was a selection of Cooper-Hewitt architectural drawings 
from the sixteenth to the twentieth centuries. Shown in the Design 
Gallery, it created that perfect balance between art and architecture. 

Close Observation: Selected Oil Sketches by Frederic E. Church 
opened in April on its final stop of an extensive national tour 
organized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition 
Service from the Cooper-Hewitt collection. Seven of Church's 
finished oil paintings which related to sketches shown — and a 
selection of artifacts from Olana, Church's home on the Hudson — 
were borrowed for the New York showing. 

Wallpaper became the focus for a comprehensive study in- 
stalled throughout the second-floor galleries during the summer. 
Entirely taken from the museum's extensive collection, the fine 
selection provided an ideal subject for this major exhibition docu- 
menting wallcovering samples from the United States, China, and 
Europe from the late 1600s to the present. 

Hair, an exhibition conceived and organized by the museum, 
examined hairstyles and hair decoration throughout history. A 
delightful summer show, Hair contained some 350 objects and ex- 
plored numerous categories dealing with ornaments for the hair; 
jewelry made of hair; wigs; and objects for the car? of hair. 

Two loan shows scheduled for the fall were Beach, Boardwalk, 
Boulevard, a study of the past, present, and future of Atlantic City 
as projected in the architecture, design, and artifacts of the famed 
seaside resort city, and The Colman Collection of Silver Mustard 
Pots from England. 

Arriving in September, Electroworks traced the development of 
copy machine art created by artists and designers. This exhibition 
consisted of over 250 works including prints, limited edition books, 
graphics, textiles, animation, and three-dimensional objects. A 
particular highlight was the Xerox 6500 color copier staffed by 
trained operators and artists who gave demonstrations. 

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service con- 



186 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



■ M 




Exhibitions at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York City continue to attract the 
attention of the public as well as museum professionals and reviewers. The unusual 
summer show on Hair comprised sculpture, paintings, prints, drawings, photographs, 
and decorative arts highlighting hairstyles through the ages. 

Below. The elaborate hair wreath and the engravings displayed here were among 
the 350 objects shown, including hair ornaments, jewelry, wigs and other objects 
made of hair, as well as objects for the care of hair. 







i 


& , 








*t 












tinued to circulate Cooper-Hewitt exhibitions. Urban Open Spaces 
and an expanded version of The Shopping Bag exhibition joined 
Crosscurrents: French and Italian Neoclassical Drawings and Prints; 
Close Observation: Selected Oil Sketches by Frederic E. Church; 
and the Subways exhibition. 

PUBLICATIONS 

Continuing the twelve-part series, The Smithsonian Illustrated 
Library of Antiques prepared by the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, 
three more books were published in cooperation with the Book-of- 
the-Month Club: Prints, Furniture 2, and Clocks. In connection 
with the collections exhibitions, the museum published two new 
catalogues, Furniture and Tiles. Catalogues also accompanied The 
Oceanliner; Spectacular Spaces; Close Observations: Selected Oil 
Sketches by Frederic E. Church; and Hair. Urban Open Spaces, the 
special tabloid catalogue for the 1979 exhibition in the "Immovable 
Objects" exhibition series was published as a book by Rizzoli. With 
the assistance of the Barra Foundation, Wallpaper in America, a 
book based on the Cooper-Hewitt collection of wallpapers, was also 
published. 

PROGRAMS AND MEMBERSHIP 

During the four semesters beginning in the fall of 1979, over 4,000 
students participated in the education programs of the Cooper- 
Hewitt. In addition, more than 2,000 attended tours and special 
events in 1980. 

Concurrent with several of the exhibitions, the department 
organized special courses and events relating to design, archi- 
tecture, and the decorative arts. One example during The Oceanliner 
exhibition was the delightful lecture prepared by John Maxtone- 
Graham, author of the Only Way to Cross. In addition to the 
lectures, there were numerous tours including ones of Charleston, 
South Carolina; Williamstown, Massachusetts; and the Catskill 
Mountains in New York. A two-part series of performing arts 
events were held in the Mansion Garden during the summer. The 
concerts included an early American opera, a jazz concert by David 
Amram, and a classical chamber ensemble, in addition to perform- 
ances by two modern dance companies. 

In conjunction with the Bank Street College of Education, the 



188 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



museum developed a children's program specially designed by a 
visiting graduate student. After three months of operation, the 
program had hosted more than 1,250 students from sixty groups 
with enthusiastic response from all involved. The museum also 
benefited from the invaluable service of one hundred volunteers 
and twenty-five interns who gave much of their time during the 
year. The Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellowship Program provided 
stipends for three students. 

Membership support in the form both of renewals and new ap- 
plicants has continued to increase. In September the total topped 
6,700 showing a 20 percent increase in new members since last 
year. 

Christie's president David Bathurst presided as auctioneer for 
the Seventh Annual Benefit Auction. It was the first time Christie's 
handled the event and, as in past years, it continues to be a 
successful source of revenue. 

COLLECTIONS MANAGEMENT 
Some 92 donors contributed 3,295 works of art to the museum, and 
the collections were further enhanced by nine purchases made 
with restricted acquisitions funds. The museum borrowed 3,756 
items from 180 museums and private collections for special ex- 
hibitions, and lent 324 objects for exhibitions to 26 museums and 
other institutions. 

An inventory of the collections begun in 1979 with an ap- 
propriation from Congress continues. Over 70,000 objects have 
been inventoried and most of these have been recorded on computer. 

Several physical changes occurred in the mansion. The Design 
Gallery was redesigned and enlarged. The textile collection is in 
the process of being moved from storage following completion of 
the new Textile Department quarters. The Paper Conservation 
Laboratory was also completed, and immediately put to use. 

AWARDS 

The museum received several awards. At its annual awards cere- 
mony, the Municipal Art Society presented the Cooper-Hewitt 
Museum with a Certificate of Merit for the conception of "Museum 
Mile." Official certification as a National Historic Landmark was 
granted to the Andrew Carnegie Mansion by the United States 



History and Art I 189 



Department of the Interior at the members' annual garden party. 
Last summer's Urban Open Spaces exhibition was cited by Urban 
Design Newsletter in its fourth annual Urban Design Awards for 
significant contributions in the field. In addition, the Urban Open 
Spaces and Class catalogues received awards from the printing 
industry. 



Freer Gallery of Art 

Expansion dominated most of the programs of the Freer Gallery 
of Art in fiscal year 1980. Expanded programs came in response to 
the growing numbers of visitors as well as the increasing flow of 
requests for information about the collections. Both developments 
appear to reflect renewed interest in the Asian scene, and there is 
every indication that the numbers of visitors and of requests for 
information about the culture of the Near and Far East will continue 
to expand during the 1980s. The gallery's multifaceted programs 
have been instituted to help meet those demands. 

One aspect of the expansion program involves the proposed new 
center for Eastern art in the Smithsonian's South Quadrangle. The 
gallery's activities during the past year have been, and in coming 
years will be, directed toward this expansion. With space for 
traveling exhibitions in the proposed center, the opportunities for 
the Smithsonian to host national and international exhibitions will 
mark a totally new era in public understanding and awareness of 
Oriental art. By preparing well in advance for those changes, the 
Freer should be able to meet the challenges without difficulty. 

For the growing number of visitors, the Freer Gallery initiated 
an illustrated pamphlet introducing the gallery and its history. The 
public reaction to this free statement has been extremely favorable. 
The initial printing of 20,000 copies was exhausted within six 
weeks, and a second printing is being distributed. 

Single-page illustrated leaflets that introduce the art objects dis- 
played permanently in the galleries have also been popular. A 
variant of this free leaflet is the more detailed statement available 
to visitors of the special exhibitions. Staff members are preparing 
additional leaflets in an expanded program for the coming year. 



190 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Special exhibitions that highlight specific aspects of the col- 
lections are being presented more frequently. There were two major 
exhibitions during fiscal year 1980. The first, entitled A Decade of 
Discovery, opened on November 8, 1979. The 114 objects in the 
exhibition were selected from among the pieces added to the col- 
lections during the period 1970 to 1980. Spanning a period from 
the third and second millennia b.c. to the nineteenth century a.d., 
the items included religious images, ritual objects, secular paintings, 
personal ornaments, and household furnishings, representing cul- 
tures as far apart geographically as the shores of the Mediterranean, 
the subcontinent of India, and the islands of Japan. A fully illus- 
trated catalogue was prepared for this exhibition. 

The second major offering during the past year was a display of 
Chinese calligraphy that opened on May 9, 1980. The exhibition 
provided the first opportunity for the general public to view 
twelve masterpieces of Chinese calligraphy that were purchased 
by the gallery through the Smithsonian's Collections Acquisition 
Program. 

Among the smaller exhibitions organized by members of the 
curatorial staff was the Art of the Court of Shah Tahmasp. During 
his reign in the sixteenth century, Shah Tahmasp assembled a 
group of artists who produced some of the finest illustrated manu- 
scripts in the history of Persian painting. The Freer's collection of 
manuscripts from those imperial workshops is especially note- 
worthy. 

To mark 1980 as the Year of the Monkey, the gallery organized 
a small display of Chinese and Japanese paintings depicting 
monkeys. Mounted in conjunction with that exhibition was one of 
equal size that featured a group of Japanese fan paintings. Some 
examples of Japanese ceramics and lacquer in which the fan format 
played an important role were also included. 

The Freer's American collection continues to attract visitors 
from all over the world. To demonstrate the rich holdings assembled 
by Charles Lang Freer, the gallery presented a special exhibition 
of paintings and drawings by Thomas Wilmer Dewing (1851— 
1938). An unusual aspect of the exhibition was the handsome 
framing for the oil paintings, many of these frames having been 
specifically designed for the paintings by the noted architect 
Stanford White. 



History and Art I 191 



i /t 



r#^ 



fc 

V 



U 



T 




?qn # 



^1 



^ 




This masterpiece of Chinese calligraphy 
(Ming dyn.) is in the Freer collection. 



Drawing upon the gallery's large holdings of Chinese jade carv- 
ing, a representative group of pieces dating from the late Neolithic 
period to the Han dynasty (third millennium b.c to third century 
a.d.) was shown at the end of the year. That was the first time the 
gallery had ever mounted a special display of its Chinese jade. 

The Freer Gallery has always been active in cooperating with 
counterpart institutions and colleagues abroad. This effort expanded 
in the past year, particularly with the People's Republic of China. 
Three groups of distinguished scholars and officials from China 
visited the gallery for working sessions with the gallery's Technical 
Laboratory and curatorial staff. These included Mr. Ch'i Chuang, 
vice-minister of culture; Mr. Hsia Nai, head of the National 
Academy of Sciences; and Mr. Ma Ch'eng-yuan, curator of the 
Shanghai Museum. Ambassador Chai Zemin visited the gallery in 
January and again in May for the opening of the Chinese Callig- 
raphy exhibition. Earlier in the year, Mrs. Joan Mondale, wife of 
the Smithsonian Regent and vice-president of the United States, 
prepared for her trip to China with a visit to the gallery. The Freer 
director, as a member of the Smithsonian delegation to China, 
lectured at the Shanghai Museum on "The Exhibition, Conservation 
and Storage of Chinese Art at the Freer Gallery of Art." 

An unusually large number of additions were made to the col- 
lections during the year, reflecting the expanded role of donors of 
objects and financial support in the life of the gallery. Of the 197 
objects, 77 were Chinese paintings presented to the Freer by the 
United States Department of the Treasury, Bureau of Customs. The 
James Smithson Society generously purchased a Turkish candle- 
stick, dated ca. 1500, and presented it to the gallery. A growing 
number of private individuals contributed to the gallery. Of par- 
ticular importance were three Korean ceramics presented in memory 
of Ambassador Samuel D. Berger. The twelfth-century celadon 
bowl and two eighteenth-nineteenth century porcelain jars comple- 
ment the gallery's Korean ceramic collection. The Freer Library 
benefited particularly from donors, including the Japan Foundation, 
the Metropolitan Center for Far Eastern Art Studies, and the Ellen 
Bayard Weedon Foundation. 

The first award from the Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund 
enabled the gallery to invite Profesor Eiichi Taguchi of the Tokyo 
University of Fine Arts to spend three months at the Freer doing 



History and Art I 193 



research on the Japanese Buddhist paintings in the collection. The 
second recipient of an award from the Stern Memorial Fund, Pro- 
fessor Koji Nakamura of Nara Women's College, will visit the 
gallery early in the coming fiscal year. 

Dr. Milo C. Beach of Williams College was appointed a Smith- 
sonian Regents Fellow to study the Freer's outstanding collection 
of Indian Mughal paintings. 

The Freer Gallery sponsored the twenty-seventh annual series of 
"Illustrated Lectures on Oriental Art." One of the six lectures, by 
Professor Henry D. Smith II, of the University of California, was 
sponsored jointly with the Embassy of Japan. The Rutherford J. 
Gettens Memorial Lecture, "East Asian Paintings and the Scientist: 
A Materialistic Look at Works of Art," was delivered by Dr. John 
Winter of the Freer staff. 



Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden 

As one of the major museums of contemporary art in the country, 
the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden maintains an 
active exhibition schedule and acquisitions program. In support 
of these are related programs of lectures, films, concerts, and edu- 
cational activities involving audiences of all ages. Technical and 
support units include offices of conservation, registration, photog- 
raphy, and a reference library. 

Acquisitions are vital to any museum but especially to a con- 
temporary art museum. During 1980 the museum acquired eighty- 
one works of art, including forty-one gifts from Joseph H. Hirsh- 
horn. Two major works were acquired with nonappropriated trust 
funds made available by the Smithsonian Board of Regents and 
partially matched by funds raised by the Hirshhorn Museum 
and Sculpture Garden Board of Trustees. The first was a cast of 
Gaston Lachaise's Standing Woman (1932), and the second a 
painting by Joan Miro, Woman before an Eclipse with Her Hair 
Disheveled by the Wind. Other important purchases included 
works by Tony Smith, Joseph Cornell, Arthur Dove, and Honore 
Daumier. 

Major exhibitions that opened during the last year included 



194 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Murals Without Walls: Arshile Gorky's Aviation Murals Redis- 
covered (October 4-November 25, 1979), which was shown in con- 
junction with the museum's collection of twenty-nine works by 
the same artist. The murals, which were painted by Gorky in the 
late 1930s for the airport administration building at Newark, New 
Jersey, had been painted over and hence "lost." Subsequently, two 
of these murals were able to be removed from the walls and re- 
stored for exhibition. This display was organized by the American 
Federation of Arts. 

The exhibition Fernando Botero (December 20, 1979-February 
10, 1980) opened with the artist attending the preview. Including 
sixty-six paintings, drawings, and sculptures spanning thirty years 
of this Colombian artist's career, the show was Botero's first mu- 
seum retrospective in the United States. The exhibition traveled to 
the Art Museum of South Texas at Corpus Christi. 

Miro: Selected Paintings (March 20-June 8, 1980), with forty- 
five works from American collections, was a major exhibition. 
Accompanied by a catalogue fully illustrated in color, it was 
also exhibited at the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, New 
York. 

The Fifties: Aspects of Painting in New York (May 22-Septem- 
ber 21, 1980) was exhibited on most of the third floor of the 
museum. This exhibition was accompanied by a tape tour by the 
curator who organized the show, including interviews with two 
of the artists in the exhibition, Larry Rivers and Helen Franken- 
thaler. 

Finally, Edwin Dickinson: Selected Landscapes (September 18- 
December 14, 1980), an exhibition of fifty-eight paintings, opened 
here in the fall of 1980. This exhibition will be displayed at the 
J. B. Speed Museum, Louisville, Kentucky. 

Smaller exhibitions, mostly based on the museum's holdings, 
were Oscar Bluemner; Raphael Soyer; the Benin Collection; Hans 
Richter's Stalingrad: Victory in the East; The Cubist Heritage; The 
Intimate Scale: A Selection; Mayan Installation; Alexandra Exter: 
Marionettes and Theatrical Design; Brancusi as Photographer (or- 
ganized by the Akron Art Institute); Nakian; and New York: The 
Artist's View. 

Two small exhibitions that merit special attention were Seven 
Belgian Artists: Selections from the Hirshhorn Museum Collection 



History and Art I 195 




Hirshhorn Museum Director Abram Lerner stands near 
Larry Rivers's Second Avenue, lent by Senator Jacob 
Javits (right) for the Hirshhorn show The Fifties. 
Below. One of the many works on paper acquired by 
ncfa this year was Yasuo Kuniyoshi's lithograph Cafe. 




and Art Deco Posters from the Library of Congress. The Queen 
of the Belgians, accompanied by the museum director and others, 
toured Seven Belgian Artists, which was exhibited as part of the 
United States' celebration of Belgium's 150th anniversary. Art 
Deco Posters from the Library of Congress was the first exhibition 
at the Hirshhorn Museum to be drawn exclusively from the col- 
lection of another government agency. The exhibition was warmly 
received and plans call for similar projects in the future. 

The museum provided visitors with a variety of educational 
materials, including wall labels and brochures that ranged from a 
single page to more ambitious illustrated "mini-catalogues," all 
distributed free to the public. All major exhibitions and selected 
small exhibitions are accompanied by well-documented and illus- 
trated catalogues that serve the general public as well as students 
and scholars. 

Specially trained docents offered tours of both the permanent 
collection and special exhibitions. During the Botero and Miro 
installations docents conducted tours in Spanish. 

The museum makes extensive loans from its collection to other 
institutions around the world: in 1980, eighty-four objects were lent 
to thirty-two institutions. These included twenty-seven paintings 
for an exhibition called Treasures from the Hirshhorn Museum, 
presented by the Terra Museum of American Art, Evanston, Illi- 
nois. A major loan went to the 1980 Venice Biennale. Besides indi- 
vidual loans, exhibitions from the permanent collection are 
circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition 
Service. In 1980 a new exhibition, Collages from the Hirshhorn 
Museum, was organized to be sent on tour by this service. 

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden continued the 
annual inventory of its collection. Works on paper were fully in- 
ventoried in this final cycle of the three-year program. A conser- 
vation survey to assess the condition of approximately 650 un- 
framed prints and drawings in the collection was completed so 
that untreated works from the collection could receive systematic 
conservation care. 

Augmenting the museum's exhibition program was a series of 
lectures on various aspects of contemporary art and art history. 
The speakers were Ruth Bowman, Suzi Gablick, Cynthia Jaffee 
McCabe, Miranda McClintic, Charles Millard, David Nash, Phyllis 



History and Art I 197 



Rosenzweig, and Judith Zilczer. The Resident Associate Program 
sponsored a well-attended lecture by Rosamond Bernier on Joan 
Miro. 

The museum continued its three-part film series: "Lunchtime 
Films about Artists/' "Evening Films by Artist Filmmakers/' and 
"Saturday Films for Young People." Other events held in the 
auditorium were concerts by the 20th-century Consort, the Can- 
tilena Chamber Players, and American Women Composers. 

"Hirshhorn Holiday," a special Saturday program presented each 
year early in December, again met with enthusiasm from area 
children and their parents. This special day, sponsored in part by 
the Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates, included 
performances and music. 

On February 7-9, 1980, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture 
Garden and the National Museum of History and Technology 
provided forums for the colloquium, The Muses Flee Hitler: Cul- 
tural Transfer and Adaptation in the United States, 1930—1945, 
which was the final event of the Smithsonian's Einstein Centennial 
celebration. Twenty-six speakers participated in this first multi- 
disciplinary meeting devoted to recent scholarship on the subject 
of the Holocaust's legacy to American culture. 



Joseph Henry Papers 

In fiscal year 1980, the manuscript of the fourth volume of The 
Papers of Joseph Henry was completed and turned over to the 
Smithsonian Institution Press. This volume covers three years of 
Henry's Princeton career, 1838-1840, a period when Henry re- 
turned with new intensity to his scientific work, amply documented 
in his laboratory notes and in related correspondence. Henry's 
letters also disclose a growing interest — reinforced by his recent 
experience in Europe — in attempts to organize the American scien- 
tific community. 

The Henry staff also completed the manuscript for another 
publication, a special volume entitled A Scientist in American Life: 
Essays and Lectures of Joseph Henry. To be published by the 
Smithsonian Institution Press, the volume is intended as a popular 



198 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



reader and college text on Henry's scientific ideology. The public 
discourses presented in this volume span Henry's long career in 
science. 

As a contribution to the Smithsonian celebration of the Einstein 
Centennial, Nathan Reingold co-chaired and -planned a sym- 
posium on the intellectual and artistic flight from Hitler to the 
United States entitled The Muses Flee Hitler held in February 1980. 
Nathan Reingold also addressed the Los Alamos Scientific Labora- 
tory on "The Scientist as Troubled American." Marc Rothenberg 
spoke on the "Needs and Opportunities in the History of Astron- 
omy/' to a seminar on "Science and Its Social Context." Arthur 
Molella addressed graduate students and faculty of the Medical 
University of South Carolina on "Joseph Henry and the Founding 
of the American Scientific Community." Philip Shoemaker from 
the University of Wisconsin and Katherine Olesko of Cornell were 
Smithsonian Fellows with the Joseph Henry Papers. 



Museum of African Art 

In its first full year as part of the Smithsonian Institution, the 
Museum of African Art concentrated its efforts upon consolidating 
its resources and defining its future exhibition, programming, and 
collecting goals. 

While continuing to give emphasis to its special educational 
purpose, that of enhancing intercultural and interracial under- 
standing in America by fostering greater public appreciation of the 
rich and ancient creative traditions of Africa, the museum began 
during its first Smithsonian year to give greater attention to 
research activities. This attention was given not only in preparation 
of exhibitions and public education programs, but in regard to 
the material in the museum's 8,500-object collection and with an 
eye toward future publication programs. 

A major inventory of the collection was begun with 3,300 objects 
having been handled by the end of the year. Some 350 objects from 
thirty-six donors were added to the collection during the year, in- 
cluding gifts of a collection of contemporary Tanzanian sculpture 
(Makonde) and other objects from former United States Ambas- 



History and Art I 199 



sador to Tanzania and Mrs. W. Beverly Carter, Jr., a member of the 
Museum of African Art's Commission; twenty-eight objects of 
West African sculpture from Benjamin Weiss of New York; and 
selected works from Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Gross of New York, Mr. 
and Mrs. Ernst du Pont of Delaware, and others. 

The museum presented four major exhibitions and three smaller 
ones during the year: The Useful Arts of Kenya; Puppets from 
West Africa, presented in conjunction with the International Pup- 
petry Congress held in Washington, D.C., in June; Selections from 
the Permanent Collection, featuring the Samuel Rubin bequest; 
and The Image of the Black in Western Art. This last exhibition, 
organized by the Menil Foundation and the Rice University Insti- 
tute of the Arts of Houston, Texas, will be circulated throughout 
the United States by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Ex- 
hibition Service. The three secondary exhibitions were: Harvest 
Ceremonies and Celebrations, an exhibition correlated with the 
December/January Afro-American Kwanzaa holiday; Five 19th 
Century Afro-American Artists, presented in conjunction with 
Black History Month events in February; and Appliqued Cloths of 
the Dahomey Kingdom, a collection gathered in Africa in the 1930s 
by the late American cultural anthropologist and Africanist, Mel- 
ville Herskovits. 

Only a limited number of extension exhibitions could be handled 
by the museum this year: a sculpture exhibition entitled The Lan- 
guage of African Art sent to Franklin and Marshall College in 
Lancaster, Pennsylvania; Panorama of African Art for government 
employees and visitors to the Executive Office Building (Office of 
Management and Budget); and an exhibition of textiles, prepared 
for the Office of Minority Concerns on the occasion of the opening 
of the newly created Department of Education. 

In addition, more than one hundred objects of African and Afro- 
American art were lent by the museum to nine other museums, 
universities, and government agencies such as the Department 
of State and the Office of the Vice-President. 

The museum's Department of Academic Studies offered seven 
courses at universities and other educational institutions in the 
Washington area: Georgetown University ("Images of Authority 
in African Art"); American University ("African Textiles and 
Decorative Arts"); the United States Department of Agriculture 



200 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Graduate School ("Masks in African Art" and "Collecting African 
Art"); and the Smithsonian Resident Associate Program (survey 
course). In addition, the department offered special intensive 
presentations to other university groups, including, for the third 
successive year, a class in "Aesthetics and Education" for the Uni- 
versity of Virginia. Consultations with the Montgomery and Fair- 
fax County school boards over the past year have resulted in the 
production of preliminary curriculum material for teacher educa- 
tion courses to be offered during 1981. 

Eighteen university students served internships during the past 
year, bringing to eighty-four the total number who have received 
college credit training in the museum's various departments. 

The museum continues to cosponsor with the Johns Hopkins 
University School of Advanced International Studies a monthly 
series of lectures entitled "The Africa Roundtable." Presentations 
by international and local scholars focus on all aspects of African 
political, economic, and social life. Noted scholars who have pre- 
sented papers over the past year have included Emmanuel Obie- 
china of the University of Nigeria, Paul Stoller of West Chester 
State College, David and Marina Ottoway (fellows of the Wood- 
row Wilson International Center for Scholars), Remy Clignet 
and Judith Hanna of the University of Maryland, and Ntalaja 
Nzongola from Zaire, currently at Howard University. 

Now in its nineteenth year is the series of monthly seminars on 
African art and culture, conducted by the director of the museum, 
for officers studying at the Department of State's Foreign Service 
Institute. The director also lectured at the Corcoran Gallery of 
Art, at the Fifth Triennial Symposium on African Art at the High 
Museum in Atlanta, at a conference on Nigerian-American Friend- 
ship in New York, at the University of Minnesota, for the Associa- 
tion of National School Boards, for the Federal Bar Association, 
and in the Cosmos Club lecture series, as well as for the Smith- 
sonian Resident Associate Program and museum membership pro- 
grams. 

Other staff members who have lectured at universities, mu- 
seums, and in various training programs are Edward Lifschitz 
(Coordinator of Academic Studies) at the Chrysler Museum in 
Norfolk, Virginia, at Old Dominion University, and at the Interna- 
tional Puppetry Congress; Amina Dickerson (Program Director) at 



History and Art I 201 



Monroe Community College in Rochester, New York, Mount 
Vernon College, Howard University, and for the Associates of 
Arts Administration Education; Gretchen Jennings (Museum 
Training Officer) at George Washington University and to 
teachers of the Fairfax County public school system; Mary Lynn 
Perry at the 1980 Conference of the American Association of 
Museums; and Lydia Puccinelli (Curator of Collections) at the 
Corcoran Gallery. 

Activities conducted during the past year by the museum's 
Public Programming Department (including elementary and sec- 
ondary school and adult education programs) have been extensive 
and highly diverse. The year began with several events concluding 
a special program, "Africa in the Americas: An Exploration of the 
African Diaspora," funded by the National Endowment for the 
Humanities and the Rockefeller Foundation. Participants in lectures 
and panel discussions included such prominent African and Afro- 
American scholars as Dr. Wole Soyinka (University of Ife, 
Nigeria), Dr. Fela Sowande (Kent State University), Professors 
Robert F. Thompson, Sylvia Boone, and Rosalind Jefferies (all of 
Yale University), Dr. Barry Gaither (National Center for Afro- 
American Arts, Boston, Massachusetts), and Dr. Sylvia Williams 
(Brooklyn Museum). Music, drama, film, workshops, folktale and 
poetry readings, as well as dancing and drumming performances 
rounded out the program, which concluded with the museum's 
fourth annual Kwanzaa Festival. 

In November and December, the museum participated, with the 
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum and the National Museum of 
History and Technology, in a three-weekend, tri-museum program 
for children and parents designed to give participants a broader 
perspective on the continuity of African cultures throughout the 
world. 

During February, designated as National Ethnic Heritage Month, 
the museum sponsored concerts featuring talented child performers 
(ages 5 to 12), and the students of the Duke Ellington School for 
the Arts; a puppet show for children, highlighting the contribu- 
tions of Afro- Americans to American history; lectures by Howard 
University Professor Russell Adams on "The Relevance of Fred- 
erick Douglass in Our Time," and Professor James Lewis of 
Morgan State College on "The Owo Archeology Project." The 



202 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



museum also staged, for the second year, a two-day seminar, 
"Careers in Museums," for area high school seniors and college 
freshmen, on the occasion of International Museum Day. 

Other special program events included a concert by the Eight 
Musicians from Mali, Zaire and Zambia; a concert by the Senegal- 
ese ballet company, Mudra Afrique; a summer outdoor concert 
series in the museum's newly expanded and renovated N'Debele 
Courtyard, which featured the American ethnomusicologist/mu- 
sician Paul Berliner, a Brazilian samba band, and a Trinidad steel 
band; a lecture/demonstration by the Ghanaian master drummer, 
Yacub Addy; and a lecture/poetry reading by the eminent poet- 
scholar Sterling Brown. 

The museum's African crafts program for school children in- 
cluded an average of two to three workshops each week, with oc- 
casional special workshops conducted by noted African artists such 
as Olabisi Olanyi from Oshogbo, Nigeria. In September, the Ma- 
lawian sculptor and Professor of African Art, Dr. Berlings Kaunda, 
began a four-month Fulbright fellowship at the museum as Artist- 
in-Residence. 

Teacher training activities were provided for the school systems 
of Montgomery County in Maryland and counties Fairfax and 
Arlington in Virginia as well as for the District of Columbia. Re- 
quests for such services far surpass the museum's current staff 
capability to fulfill them. 

During the year more than 1,200 groups — school classes; church, 
civic, and fraternal organizations; university classes; visiting 
tourists — participated in special orientation sessions on African 
culture conducted by African members of the museum's staff, an 
activity which continues to be a mainstay of the museum's public 
education program. 



National Collection of Fine Arts 

In building the collections of the National Collection of Fine Arts 
(ncfa) over the past ten years, emphasis has been placed on keep- 
ing the collection abreast of current activity in American art, filling 
in notable omissions, and recording in depth the work of some 



History and Art I 203 



characteristic artists. Towards these ends, 1,347 works were added 
to the collections during the year. 

By far the fastest growing department of the museum has been 
the Department of Prints and Drawings; formed initially in the 
1960s by Jacob Kainen, this department has been continuously 
and judiciously expanded by the present curator, Janet Flint. Aside 
from mounting five exhibitions, including the popular Prints for the 
People and the important Drawings of Morris Louis, the depart- 
ment acquired this year 1,175 works on paper. Among the major 
gifts were: the Frank McClure bequest of 440 works which, in ad- 
dition to his own graphic work, included 181 prints by his con- 
temporaries and 3 paintings; a gift by Adele Lozowick of 48 ad- 
ditional prints by Louis Lozowick (1892-1973), which brings the 
museum's collection of works by this important, innovative artist 
to 111; and 33 prints by Howard Norton Cook. Of very different 
character are the 99 watercolor paintings by Pueblo Indians exe- 
cuted during the first quarter of the century, presented by Mrs. 
Edgar L. Rossin, daughter of the Santa Fe painter William Pen- 
hallow Henderson whose sympathetic paintings of the Indians of 
Taos and Santa Fe were shown by ncfa in 1979. Two areas of 
particular interest to the Department of Prints and Drawings are 
monotypes and early twentieth-century color woodcuts, several of 
which were added during the year. 

All departments have continued to add important works to the 
collection, but the Department of 20th Century Painting and 
Sculpture this year has made spectacular gains. Twenty-six major 
paintings, including works by De Kooning, Morris Louis, Clyfford 
Still, and Franz Kline — many of which had for some time been on 
display in the museum — were acquired by a combination of pur- 
chase and gift from the collection of Vincent Melzac. Sixteen paint- 
ings by Jacob Kainen — whose five decades as a painter were cele- 
brated by an exhibition at the museum in December — were ac- 
cessioned, chosen to cover the various periods of his career. The 
addition of thirteen paintings by the late Alma Thomas brought 
the museum's survey of her achievements to twenty-nine works. 
Among the important individual works acquired were an imposing 
recent work by Gene Davis, and Franz Kline's early landscape 
Palmerton (1941). 

Among earlier works acquired were: twenty-eight additions to 



204 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



the museum's distinguished collection of portrait miniatures, 
Emanuel Leutze's The Courtship of Ann Boleyn (1847), and Worth- 
ington Whittredge's The Amphitheatre of Tusculum and View of 
the Alban Hills (1860). 

In the autumn of 1979, particular attention was given to art of 
the 1930s. On the fiftieth anniversary of the Wall Street crash, an 
exhibition of somber art produced under the wpa opened; called 
After the Crash, the exhibition has been supplemented by a new 
gallery devoted to other works from the Federal Art Projects. 
Prints for the People called attention to the vital movement in 
the graphic arts under the wpa. A major exhibition, Sculpture and 
the Federal Triangle, the product of several years' research, under- 
scored the technical and stylistic procedures in the design of the 
last monumental federal building project (begun in 1928) to make 
use of the traditional close collaboration of sculptors, architects, 
and technicians. These exhibitions provided fascinating compara- 
tive background for the comprehensive exhibition — -mounted in 
the summer of 1980 — of maquettes for art commissioned for fed- 
eral buildings between 1972 and 1979. Across the Nation: Fine Art 
for Federal Buildings presented a cross section of adventuresome 
recent art. The maquettes and designs for eighty-eight commissions 
were transferred to ncfa for the permanent collection by the 
General Services Administration, and were scheduled to tour the 
country after the exhibition in Washington. 

Extensive public programs of films, music, lectures, and walk- 
ing tours accompanied the exhibitions treating the 1930s. There 
were special lectures also for the popular exhibition Birds (made up 
of works selected from the 1979 annual exhibition for artists 
specializing in the depiction of birds) and for other exhibitions, 
and symposia were held in association with the beautifully in- 
stalled The American Renaissance and Max Weber: Prints and 
Color Variations. It was the museum's busiest year for special pro- 
grams. For the young audience, the ever-active Department of 
Education held a series of weekend participation days for children 
and families, concentrating on sculpture and architecture. The 
annual family day was centered on art from the turn of the cen- 
tury, "A Turn in Time." 

The Renwick Gallery, which showed a marked increase in at- 
tendance for the year, was especially active with craft demonstra- 



History and Art I 205 



tions, lectures by craftsmen, and music and dance performances. 
Lace making was demonstrated throughout the course of the ex- 
hibition of Belgian lace, and the exhibition of traditional Belgian 
marionettes came vividly to life in performances staged by pup- 
peteers from Belgium, brought as part of the "Belgium Today" 
celebration. Eleven exhibitions were staged at the Renwick Gallery; 
six were devoted to crafts from abroad, ranging from Finnish Ryijy 
rugs, and a historical survey of Georg Jensen silver, to Costumes 
of the Arab World. A Century of Ceramics in the United States, 
1878-1978, assembled by the Everson Museum of Art, and New 
Glass, produced by the Corning Museum of Glass, attracted wide 
attention as did exhibitions of individual artists and craftsmen, 
including the weavers H. Theodore Hallman (whose significant 
titles were provided by poet Kenneth G. Mills), Lia Cook, and 
Neda AlHilai, and painter Joyce Kozloff, whose fabric and tile 
works created a decorated, colorful environment. 

In all, ncfa mounted twenty-six temporary exhibitions, plus two 
that were assembled from the permanent collection for circulation 
to a consortium of colleges. 

A symposium held in Baird Auditorium, organized by Lois Fink, 
research curator, and sponsored by the Smithsonian Resident As- 
sociate Program, examined art and artists in Washington prior to the 
1920s. Topics ranged from the Italian artists of the Capitol Build- 
ing to the artistic activity of Alice Pike Barney (whose Studio 
House has been much visited by groups this past year), and it was 
agreed that the history of art in Washington merited continued 
study. The museum is preparing an exhibition on the subject. 

Several new scholars joined the resident group of fellows during 
the year, and weekly noontime sessions were held for fellows, in- 
terns, and staff. New topics of research covered a wide area, from 
John La Farge to the imagery of skyscrapers. 



National Museum of History and Technology 

There are 16,000,000 items in the collection of the National 
Museum of History and Technology. Making an inventory takes 
a while, and getting each item properly described takes skilled and 
resourceful people. This was the year of the inventory — and it 



206 / Smithsonian Year 1980 




Secretary Ripley and ncfa Director Joshua Taylor stand with Vincent Melzac (center) 
in front of Clyfford Still's Indian Red and Black, one of the works acquired by ncfa 
from the Melzac Collection. Below. Building of New York's East River Tunnel is 
documented in this nmht photo, one of a group acquired from a former Pennsy 
Railroad employee who rescued the pictures from disposal. 




was also the year for long-term planning, the results of which will 
begin to materialize in 1981. 

During his first year as director, Roger G. Kennedy has been 
hard at work with his staff evaluating the museum's strengths and 
opportunities. Its fundamental mission is clear: to interpret his- 
tories of the peoples of the United States primarily through the 
evidence inherent in material artifacts. Science and technology 
have provided many of those artifacts; the ways in which they re- 
flect social history is an important part of their story. Therefore, 
without diminishing our traditional emphasis upon technology, 
we have been reordering our staff not only to elucidate the recent 
efflorescence of research into America's social history but also to 
participate actively in expanding the frontiers of such knowledge. 

Toward this end, a series of lectures and panel discussions was 
organized by Claudia Kidwell, chairman of the Department of 
Social and National History. Many trailblazing scholars of the 
new social history, such as David Hackett Fisher, Mary Beth 
Norton, and Herbert Gutman, addressed the staff and discussed 
with them current trends, especially the teaching of social history 
in a museum setting. There was, moreover, a cross-fertilization of 
ideas among our curators and such prominent museum profes- 
sionals as Cary Carson, Betsy Blackmar, and Richard Rabinowitz. 

In addition to this new emphasis on scholarly interaction, ad- 
ministrative changes have occurred aimed at implementing a series 
of major public presentations. The arrival from the National Por- 
trait Gallery of Douglas Evelyn as deputy director signaled the be- 
ginning of an intense effort at definition and clarification of numer- 
ous, administrative policies that awaited the arrival of a permanent 
director. Mr. Kennedy further moved to clarify the mission of the 
museum by consolidating the four departments into two broad 
departments. The Department of Social and National History 
under Mrs. Claudia Kidwell has a vice-chairman, Dr. Gary Kulik, 
who is an expert in the history of the development of the tech- 
nology of textile machinery and is also a labor historian. The De- 
partment of the History of Science and Technology under Dr. 
Bernard Finn has a vice-chairman, Dr. Robert Post, who is a his- 
torian of the presidency and the American West. 

This was a very productive transitional year, with an unusually 
large number of staff publications and exhibitions. Our major ex- 



208 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



hibition Edison: Lighting A Revolution opened October 10, 1979. 
The occasion was the centennial of the invention of the incandes- 
cent light bulb. Organized by the curator of electricity, Bernard 
Finn, and historian Robert Friedel, this exhibition presents an over- 
view of the dramatic developments in the history of electricity 
prior to Edison's invention and in the new age of electrical power 
afterward. The Niagara Falls power station opened in 1895; within 
ten years, a thousand central power stations were operating 
throughout America. Today, the impact of electricity is so per- 
vasive that life without it is difficult to imagine. 

This exhibition further focuses on Edison's innovative genius (he 
secured over one thousand patents), and on the activities of his in- 
vention factory, Menlo Park, as well as the activities of Edison's 
competitors such as George Westinghouse. Included among the 
artifacts are many examples of the earliest inventions relating to 
electricity, including a voltaic pile battery from 1805; Edison's lab- 
oratory notebooks; and examples of early electrical appliances 
for the home. 

In addition to Edison, the museum also staged seven special ex- 
hibitions during the year. In connection with Black History Month 
and coinciding with the twentieth anniversary of the first civil rights 
movement sit-in, at Greensboro, N.C., the museum presented We'll 
Never Turn Back. Drawn from the work of thirteen photographers 
who documented civil rights activities in the 1960s, this exhibition 
was cosponsored by the Program in Black American Culture of the 
Smithsonian's Division of Performing Arts and Howard University. 

Cartoonist Crockett Johnson, creator of Barnaby, had a secret 
life which was the subject of Theorems in Color, organized by Uta 
Merzbach, curator of mathematics. This exhibition presented 
thirty-five of Johnson's paintings based upon well-known mathe- 
matical constructions such as Euclid's proof of the Pythagorean 
theorem and the problems related to squaring a circle. 

"The Nation's Attic," someone dubbed the Smithsonian long 
ago. Now this phrase is no longer an embarrassment, particularly 
since it provided the title for our most popular special exhibition 
in many years. Appropriately, The Nation's Attic opened on April 
first. Among the one hundred unusual artifacts displayed are Mrs. 
Abraham Lincoln's chicken-leg silver coffee service, a silk purse 
made from a sow's ear, and paintings done on cobwebs. 



History and Art I 209 



The Afro-American Tradition in the Decorative Arts brought 
together objects, tools, and photographic images of black crafts- 
people to portray the persistent and dynamic African craft tradi- 
tions preserved in this country. Richard Ahlborn, curator of com- 
munity life, staged this exhibition, which arrived here from the 
Cleveland Museum of Art. In conjunction, the National Museum of 
History and Technology sponsored a major symposium on the 
Afro-American Esthetic. 

In Touch: Printing and Writing for the Blind in the 19th Century 
begins with the founding of the first school for the blind in Paris in 
1784 and concludes with the adoption of Standard English Braille 
in the United States, chronicling more than a century of struggle 
to bring a full education to the blind. Elizabeth Harris, curator of 
graphic arts, organized this exhibition which opened September 
23, 1980. 

In association with the "Folk Puppetry" performance series, 
sponsored by the Smithsonian's Folklife Series, the museum pre- 
sented Puppets, Puppetry, and Things on Strings. This summer 
exhibition featured such longtime favorites as Charlie McCarthy 
and Mortimer Snerd (donated to our History of Entertainment col- 
lection by the Edgar Bergen family), as well as marionettes span- 
ning 130 years of the history of American entertainment. Also 
featured were Kermit the Frog and Howdy Doody. The exhibition 
was organized by Ellen Roney Hughes of the Division of Com- 
munity Life. 

Western Views and Eastern Visions opened July 31, showcasing 
the photographers and artists who shaped our most enduring 
images of the American wilderness. The 170 photographs and 15 
paintings and drawings reflect the earliest efforts to portray the 
landscape accurately by the artists who accompanied explorers 
and scientists on early expeditions to the uncharted American 
West. Eugene Ostroff, curator of photography, organized the ex- 
hibition in cooperation with the United States Geological Survey. 
After closing here in January 1981, the show will begin a two-year 
national tour conducted by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling 
Exhibition Service. 

Turning to significant acquisitions: the Division of Numismatics 
announced in January transferal of ownership of the Chase Man- 
hattan Money Collection to the Smithsonian. This collection — more 



210 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



than 25,000 artifacts — comprehends the best collection to be found 
in America of currency from non-Western cultures and from 
ancient times. It also includes American colonial coins dating back 
to 1652, the first silver dollar minted by the United States (in 
1794), and checks signed by every United States president and by 
such notable individuals as Susan B. Anthony, Charles Dickens, 
and Helen Keller. With this addition, the National Numismatic 
Collections must be considered among the foremost research collec- 
tions of their kind in the world. 

The Division of Military History was the beneficiary of the most 
important addition to its military collection in the past fifty years, 
from the estate of the late C. Bremmer Hogg Jackson of Bucks 
County, Pennsylvania. It includes Greek Bronze Age armor from 
the fifth century B.C.; a four-powder cannon cast during the Ameri- 
can Revolution and used in Colonel Paul Revere's Penobscot Bay 
Campaign of July 1799; and an exquisite jeweled sword presented 
by the City of London to Rear Admiral Charles Sterling. Among 
the 3,700 other items are rare examples of uniforms worn by 
American militia during the Revolution, and Confederate uniforms 
from the Civil War. 

There were many other significant acquisitions, though space in 
this text precludes mentioning all but a few. The Division of Po- 
litical History announced the gift of a Bible owned by President 
Millard Fillmore and three pieces of furniture belonging to Susan 
B. Anthony. The Division of Musical Instruments acquired a 
clavichord made by Johann Adolf Hass in Hamburg in 1756 and 
folk instruments made specially for the Smithsonian by black 
musicians in the Delta Mississippi area. To return to the more 
mundane activity mentioned at the outset — inventory — all these 
artifacts great and small have been duly recorded as the museum 
proceeds with functions routine as well as exceptional. 



National Portrait Gallery 

The most important event to take place at the National Portrait 
Gallery during 1980 was the acquisition of the portraits of George 
and Martha Washington by Gilbert Stuart from the Boston 
Athenaeum under an agreement which provides for joint owner- 



History and Art I 211 



ship of the portraits with the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. 
These paintings will be on display at the National Portrait Gallery 
until the spring of 1983 when they will go to the Museum of Fine 
Arts, Boston, in accordance with an agreement providing for 
alternating three-year exhibition periods at each institution. 

Two of the gallery's most important staff members moved on 
to other positions during the year. Douglas E. Evelyn, who had 
been with the gallery since 1969 as administrative officer, assistant 
director, and deputy director, accepted the deputy directorship of 
the Smithsonian's National Museum of History and Technology. 
William B. Walker, librarian of the National Collection of Fine 
Arts / National Portrait Gallery Library since its inception, resigned 
to become chief librarian at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 
New York. 

Two special publications were produced by the gallery in 1980. 
The first was a revised edition of the Illustrated Checklist of the 
Permanent Collection (Smithsonian Institution Press). In addition, 
the gallery entered into an agreement with Somerset House to 
publish and distribute internationally a color microfiche edition of 
the Checklist, the first edition of which will be available by the 
summer of 1982. Both the book and the microfiche edition will be 
updated biennially. The second special publication of the year 
was the microfiche edition of The Collected Papers of Charles 
Willson Peale and His Family (Kraus Thompson Organization, 
Ltd.), prepared by Dr. Lillian B. Miller and her staff, who are now 
engaged in editing and annotating a letterpress edition of the Peale 
Papers (Yale University Press), the first volume of which will be 
published in the spring of 1982. 

Research is nearing completion on two other special publications, 
a definitive catalogue of The Portrait Engravings of C. B. ]. F. de 
Saint-Memin being compiled by Dr. Ellen G. Miles, associate cura- 
tor of painting and sculpture; and a definitive catalogue of Ameri- 
can 18th Century Portrait Prints being prepared by Ms. Wendy 
Wick, curator of prints. Ms. Wick has also overseen final prepara- 
tion of reports, presented last year at the gallery for the tenth an- 
nual American Print Conference, for publication by the University 
Press of Virginia in 1981. 

The gallery's Catalog of American Portraits, which currently has 
records (and in most cases photographs) of more than 60,000 



212 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



American portraits in public and private collections throughout 
the country, completed the second year of a projected seven-year, 
nationwide survey. Three field researchers worked in New York 
City, Connecticut, Rhode Island, and Massachusetts. Over 7,500 
files from the first year of the project are now being processed, and 
indexes of regional collections (in microfiche and/or printed for- 
mats) soon will be placed in selected depositories in the first states 
to be surveyed: Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, New 
Jersey, and Pennsylvania. This project has been supported by 
major grants from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the Thomas 
Mellon Evans Foundation, and the Ambrose Monell Foundation, 
as well as by significant contributions from several other sources. 

The gallery's Office of Education presented nine events in its 
"Portraits in Motion" series. Among this year's offerings were 
Eugenia Rawls's Tallulah Bankhead and appearances by performers 
interpreting the personalities of Edna St. Vincent Millay, Isadora 
Duncan, and Harriet Tubman. 

Nobel Prize-winning novelist Isaac Bashevis Singer spoke in the 
gallery's "Living Self-Portrait" series, and his address, which was 
entitled "My Life as a Jewish Writer," was preserved on video- 
tape. 

Robert Edge Pine, A British Portrait Painter in America: 1784- 
1788 opened on November 1, 1979, as the first of the gallery's 
major exhibitions for this year. Over thirty-eight portraits by this 
little-studied artist of the early Federal period were on view 
through January 6, 1980. The exhibition was organized by the 
gallery's curator of painting and sculpture, Robert G. Stewart, who 
also wrote the accompanying catalogue, published by the Smith- 
sonian Institution Press. On May 1, 1980, the gallery opened its 
second major exhibition, American Portrait Drawings, a collection 
of ninety-six works by seventy-five artists from the eighteenth 
century to the present. The drawings were selected by the gallery's 
director Marvin Sadik, and the assistant director Harold Francis 
Pfister, who jointly wrote the exhibition catalogue, also published 
by the Smithsonian Institution Press. 

Several small exhibitions were organized through the course of 
the year by Frederick S. Voss and Michael L. Lawson. Opening in 
October 1979, The Great Crash marked the fiftieth anniversary of 
the stock market collapse and the onset of the Great Depression; 



History and Art I 213 




The portrait of Alexander Hamilton by John Trumbull is a 
major gift to npg. Below. After his lecture on "My Life as a 
Jewish Writer," Isaac Bashevis Singer (right) spoke with nbc's 
Bernard Kalb at the National Portrait Gallery. 




in January 1980, a small collection of works and memorabilia high- 
lighted the career of Howard Chandler Christy, creator of the 
famous Christy Girl. Waiting for the Hour, which opened in 
March, was a study of the events and personalities surrounding 
Abraham Lincoln's historic decision to issue the Emancipation 
Proclamation. In June the gallery presented Zelda and Scott: The 
Beautiful and Damned, which included seventy-seven items (por- 
traits of the Fitzgeralds and their friends, manuscripts, and memo- 
rabilia). Unsuccessful Candidates for the Presidency: 1912—1976 
was opened in a gallery adjacent to the Hall of Presidents in July; 
and in August Why Not a Woman? recalled the 1884 presidential 
campaign of Belva Ann Lockwood, who was also the first woman 
to practice law before the Supreme Court. 

During the year, 273 portraits were added to the Permanent 
Collection, thirty-nine of them by gift. Among acquisitions by 
purchase were oils of George Washington, probably done from 
life, by Robert Edge Pine; William Shirley, a colonial governor of 
Massachusetts, by Thomas Hudson; and Commodore William 
Bainbridge by Rembrandt Peale. Photographic purchases included 
daguerreotypes of Harriet Beecher Stowe and of President Chester 
A. Arthur as a young man. 

Among the most important portraits that came by gift were oils 
of Alexander Hamilton by John Trumbull, from the Honorable 
Henry Cabot Lodge; Fisher Ames by Gilbert Stuart, from George 
Cabot Lodge; August Belmont by Wouterus Verschuur, from Paul 
Mellon; Edgard Varese by John Sloan, from Helen Farr Sloan; and 
miniatures of Jefferson Davis and his wife Varina Howell Davis, 
from their great-grandchildren, Varina Webb Stewart and Joel A. 
H. Webb. The Margaret Hall Foundation presented an oil of 
Benjamin West by James Smith; and the James Smithson Society 
continued its annual generosity to the gallery by providing funds 
for the purchase of a hitherto unknown self-portrait of Samuel 
F. B. Morse painted when he was a young student of art. 



Office of American Studies 

The Office of American Studies continued its program in graduate 
education throughout the year. The fall 1979 semester in "Material 



History and Art I 215 



Aspects of American Civilization" had as its theme: Costume and 
Clothing as Artifacts of American Civilization. Taught by the 
director of the program and Professor Bernard Mergen, of George 
Washington University, the course was enriched by the expertise 
provided from staffs of the National Museum of History and Tech- 
nology, Folklife Programs, and other area museums. Twenty-two 
students were enrolled. 

Other seminars given during the academic year 1979—80 in- 
cluded: "Use of Material Objects in Historical Research and Inter- 
pretation," taught by Bernard Mergen; "The Civic Center in 
America," taught by Cynthia Field; and "The American Decorative 
Arts," taught by Barbara G. Carson. Members of the Folklife Pro- 
grams staff also taught several courses in aspects of American folk- 
life, as noted in their report. Individual graduate students con- 
tinued to pursue specialized research under the supervision of the 
director of the Office of American Studies. 

A seminar entitled "Material Culture in America, 1775-1825" 
was taught by the director of the Office of American Studies, for 
Smith College interns in Washington in the fall of 1980. 

The director of the Office of American Studies, in his capacity as 
chairman of the Folklife Advisory Council, conducted three meet- 
ings of the council to review the progress of the Folklife Programs 
unit, and to recommend to the Secretary future directions in folk- 
life activities at the Smithsonian. 

During the academic year 1979-80, the director of the Office of 
American Studies delivered lectures and participated in several 
international meetings including: European Association of Ameri- 
can Studies meeting at the University of Amsterdam, Netherlands; 
German Association for American Studies' Annual Meeting at 
Wolfenbuttel, West Germany; conference on "The American 
Indian" held by the Nordic Association of American Studies at the 
University of Helsinki, Finland; conference on "The American 
Indian" organized by Amerika Haus, West Berlin, Germany; 15th 
International Congress of Historical Sciences, Bucharest, Romania; 
15th Annual Meeting of the Korean American Studies Association, 
Kyongju, Korea. The director also delivered lectures before the 
Singapore and Jakarta academic and cultural communities. He also 
was a Phi Beta Kappa lecturer October 1979 through April 1980, 



216 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



and in this capacity visited nine campuses in the United States to 
deliver lectures. 

The bicentennial exhibition The Federal City: Plans and Reali- 
ties, of which Dr. Washburn was the scholar-in-charge, was ex- 
tended for an additional two years, from February 1980 to Feb- 
ruary 1982. A number of articles in the exhibition, which occupies 
the Great Hall of the Smithsonian Institution Building, have been 
changed to update this popular exhibition. 



Office of Folklife Programs 

Most Americans would agree that the richness of the nation's cul- 
ture lies in the impressive diversity of its people and in their creative 
responses to historical conditions. Research, presentation, and pres- 
servation of this cultural wealth is the goal of the Office of Folklife 
Programs. This effort entails the presentation of living folk tradi- 
tions in the context of the Smithsonian. Since its inception, the 
Office of Folklife Programs has directed its attention to the identifi- 
cation and study of these folk traditions and to the development of 
methods for presenting them in a national setting to general 
audiences. As an academically oriented program, the Office of 
Folklife Programs also pursues university teaching; research into 
foreign folklife traditions to shed light on cultures that have taken 
root in American soil; and the publishing of documentary and 
analytic studies. 

FESTIVAL OF AMERICAN FOLKLIFE 

The staff of the Office of Folklife Programs planned and supervised 
the research and presentation of the thirteenth annual Festival of 
American Folklife held on the National Mall October 3-8, 1979. 
Among the highlights of the festival were a Caribbean Carnival 
with participants from United States east-coast cities, Toronto, and 
Montreal; the re-creation of an old-time medicine show with pitch- 
men and musicians who had participated in the last of these shows 
in the 1930s and 1940s; and a presentation of the traditions of 
Washington-area Vietnamese Americans. For the only time in the 
history of the festival, all regularly scheduled programs were re- 



History and Art I 217 



placed by a concert of folk religious music on Sunday, October 7. 
This concert preceded the historic occasion of the celebration of a 
Mass on the National Mall by Pope John Paul II. The National Park 
Service continued its cosponsorship of the festival, and funding 
support was provided by the Music Performance Trust Fund and 
the Department of Energy. 

The festival was also used, again for the first time, as a labora- 
tory for a course entitled "Living Resources in Museums," which 
was offered by the Office of Museum Programs Workshop Series. 
Dr. Robert Byington, former deputy director of the Office of 
Folklife Programs, drew on twelve years of Smithsonian Festival 
of American Folklife experience to provide professionals from 
museums throughout the United States with insight and instruction 
in the use of human resources within a museum setting. 

For the third consecutive year, on September 20, 1980, the Office 
of Folklife Programs provided an orientation session for Washing- 
ton-area teachers two weeks before the fourteenth annual Festival 
of American Folklife. Held in cooperation with the Office of Ele- 
mentary and Secondary Education, this session was designed to 
orient teachers not only to the festival's programs but also to the 
methods, challenges, and rewards of incorporating folklife projects 
and studies into elementary and secondary school curricula. 

In the course of preparing for the 1980 festival, Abby Watkins 
Bernon, a valued colleague and member of the staff from 1971 
through 1976 and a temporary employee in 1980, was fatally in- 
jured in an automobile accident that occurred in the course of her 
day's work. The festival program book and closing concert were 
dedicated to her memory. 

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS 

Following the 1979 festival, the Office of Folklife Programs orga- 
nized and presented traditional craft demonstrations during the 
opening week of the exhibition The Afro-American Tradition in 
Decorative Arts, which was held in the National Museum of His- 
tory and Technology October 15-December 30, 1979. 

A second special exhibition was developed from research funded 
by the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program and supervised by 
the Office of Folklife Programs. The research laid the groundwork 
for presentations by traditional puppetry groups from India and 



218 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



■X *k 



'»v "i < 



NJ 




%L*. 



-Vi 






Ernest Doyebi makes a Kiowa summer arbor at the 
Folklife Festival. Below. Ahamd Sharawi, street 
puppeteer from Cairo, Egypt, and his Aragouz 
entertain at the International Puppetry Congress. 




Egypt which were held on the National Mall in June 1980. These 
groups were joined by the Italian-American Manteo family from 
New York City who have kept alive a tradition — which dates from 
the sixteenth century — of using almost life-sized marionettes. The 
Smithsonian puppetry program was produced in cooperation with 
Puppeteers of America, which had organized a citywide network of 
puppetry events in honor of the Thirteenth World Congress of 
UNIMA (1'Union Internationale de la Marionnette). The perform- 
ances were made possible by grants from two sources: one from the 
National Endowment for the Arts to Puppeteers of America; the 
other from the Smithsonian Educational Outreach Program to the 
Office of Folklife Programs. 

ARCHIVES 

The archive of film footage from the 1976 Bicentennial Festival of 
American Folklife arrived at the Office of Folklife Programs in 
July 1980. The archive, consisting of 144,000 feet of film and 
accompanying sound track covering twelve cultures in the United 
States and abroad, was logged and cross-indexed by culture. In 
addition, the entire body of footage was synchronized with its 
sound track. 

Work began in the summer of 1979 on a project to preserve 
more than 3,500 wax-cylinder recordings at the Library of Con- 
gress, principally containing Native American songs and stories 
recorded prior to 1930. Dr. Thomas Vennum, the ethnomusicologist 
of the Office of Folklife Programs, serves as director for this project, 
which involves the transfer of fragile cylinder recordings to mag- 
netic tape, the preparation of accompanying written material, and 
the development of suitable means for the dissemination of these 
historic cultural documents. 

RESEARCH 

Supported in part by a grant from the Smithsonian Institution 
Scholarly Studies Program, Dr. Peter Seitel, the senior folklorist of 
the Office of Folklife Programs, spent the spring and summer of 
1980 continuing his investigations into Haya oral traditions. The 
Haya, a Bantu-speaking people, have a rich folklore tradition. 
Heroic epics, the subject of the research, were studied stylistically, 
as performance, and as indicators of cultural values. 



220 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Another aspect of Dr. Seitel's research explored the ethnoastro- 
nomical knowledge of the Swahili-speaking peoples of the Kenya 
coast with special emphasis on how this cultural system is used 
to interpret a total eclipse of the sun, which occurred on February 
16, 1980. The study documented indigenous celestial knowledge 
such as star and planet identifications, time reckoning and astro- 
nomical measurement, navigation, and ideas of celestial causality. 

VISITING SCHOLARS 
Five visiting scholars used the Office of Folklife Programs' archives 
as well as the scholarly resources of the staff during 1980. David 
Whisnant (Ph.D., Duke University), associate professor of English 
and American Studies at the University of Maryland, is working 
on a historical analysis of institutional intervention in traditional 
culture in Appalachia and the southeastern United States. Robert 
Winans (Ph.D., New York University), associate professor of 
English and folklore at Wayne State University, is working on a 
historical and geographical survey of pre-bluegrass traditional 
banjo-playing styles. His research involves both using Smithsonian 
archival recordings and conducting field work in areas where 
banjo-playing has not been well documented. Barry O'Connell 
(Ph.D., Harvard University), associate professor of English and 
American Studies at Amherst College, is conducting research on 
coal miners and the coal-mining industry between 1930 and 1960. 
Michael Harris (Ph.D., Harvard University) is conducting a study 
of Black American liturgies, with special attention to folk rituals of 
worship and the use of musical instruments. Robert McCarl, a 
doctoral candidate in folklore at the University of Newfoundland, 
is doing research on the occupational folklife of the fire fighters in 
the Washington, D.C., area. 

APPOINTMENTS 

In December 1979, Ralph Rinzler, director of the Office of Folk- 
life Programs, was elected to the office of vice-chairman of the 
United States National Commission to unesco to which he was 
reappointed by the Secretary of State. He also was appointed by 
the chairman of the commission to the position of chairman of the 
Cultural Committee. 



History and Art I 221 




A Smithsonian delegation led by Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum 
Programs, visited the People's Republic of China at the invitation of the Scientific 
and Technical Association November 12 to December 2, 1979, to explore opportunities 
for research and museum exchanges. The delegation was welcomed in the People's 
Palace on November 18 by Vice-Premier Fang Yi, who is responsible for Chinese 
science and technology. Shown here are (left to right, front row) Martin Moynihan, 
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute; Han Shu, Director of the Department of 
American and Oceanian Affairs of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs; 
Mr. Perrot; Vice-Premier Fang; Mao Yishen, Vice-Chairman of the Association; 
Theodore H. Reed, National Zoological Park; Mrs. Wang Zheng, Director, Foreign 
Affairs Bureau of the Association; Thomas R. Soderstrom, Department of Botany; 
(second row) member of the Vice-Premier's staff; Tung Lin Wu, Chesapeake 
Bay Center for Environmental Studies; Thomas Lawton, Freer Gallery of Art; 
Donald R. Davis, Department of Entomology; William B. Trousdale, Department 
of Anthropology; Robert M. Organ, Conservation Analytical Laboratory; Marvin S. 
Sadik, National Portrait Gallery; (third row) Yu Chi-yu, Association; Liu Lu, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences; Interpreter for the Vice-Premier; Hsu Wei-shu, Beijing Museum 
of Natural History; J. Laurens Barnard, Department of Invertebrate Zoology; and 
Miss Sung Ju-fen, Association. Richard E. Grant (not shown here), Department of 
Paleobiology, joined the delegation later. 



Smithsonian Year • 1980 
MUSEUM PROGRAMS 



PAUL N. PERROT, 
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MUSEUM PROGRAMS 



Conservation Analytical Laboratory 

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (cal) is responsible pri- 
marily for advising and assisting Smithsonian museums in preserv- 
ing and conserving the national collections. It provides an extensive 
range of expert services for this purpose. 

cal continues to monitor seventy-five sites within the Smith- 
sonian museums by the deployment of hygrothermographs to those 
areas where environmental control is vital to the preservation and 
conservation of the national collections. Approximately six hundred 
containers of recently accessioned objects were fumigated prior 
to admission into the collections. One hundred and fifty-five written 
requests for services of conservation were recorded in cal with 
queries ranging from one involving "fish-embalming fluid" to one 
requiring the x-radiography of an Egyptian mummy. 

A total of 118 cal reports were completed and entered into the 
Termatrex Information System this fiscal year. To date, more than 
fifteen hundred reports have been abstracted and entered into the 
computer system by information specialists Marjorie Cleveland and 
Quentin Maule. Of these documents, twelve hundred were cal 
reports and three hundred were acquired from the Anthropology 
Laboratory of the National Museum of Natural History. Eleven 
hundred reprints were acquisitioned for the rapidly developing in- 
formation center, bringing the total to 4,448 in the system; 878 
have been keyworded this year. An interesting search of the Art 
and Archeological Technical Abstracts through access of the com- 
puter in the British Museum provided information for the shipping 



223 



office in the National Museum of History and Technology regard- 
ing possible hazards to valuable museum objects should the poly- 
urethane or polyethylene used in packing deteriorate; another 
search cited early uses of inorganic fungicides. Approximately ten 
thousand conservation guidelines were mailed. All the demands 
for information from the public cannot be met because of inadequate 
staffing and limited space. 

Karen Preslock was appointed cal's first branch librarian in 
October. A postdoctoral fellowship in the Office of Fellowships and 
Grants was funded and a candidate selected to work on textile 
conservation. 

CONSERVATORS' REPORT 

Senior conservator at cal, Walter Angst, contributed to the lunch- 
bag seminars at the National Portrait Gallery/National Collection 
of Fine Arts — on the topic "What makes a furniture conservator 
different from a wood butcher?" Having been instrumental in 
forming the group, Angst was elected chairman of the American In- 
stitute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works (aic) Spe- 
cialty Group for conservators of furniture and wooden objects at 
the annual meeting of the aic, May 22-26 in San Francisco, Cali- 
fornia. Angst also founded and edits this group's first newsletter, 
Finwoof. On July 2 he presented a paper at the Canadian Conser- 
vation Institute symposium in Ottawa titled "Ethics in Scientific 
Furniture Conservation." 

A variety of noteworthy projects were completed by the con- 
servation staff and simultaneously contributed to cal's Conserva- 
tion Guidelines. Conservation projects included a horn chair, a 
bentwood cradle, a Flemish cabinet, a side chair with perforated 
plywood seat (a report on this by Angst is currently on press at the 
aic), a pearl necklace for the First Ladies' Hall, forty-six molds 
to be used as sensory aids for the blind in the In Touch exhibition, 
twenty-three archeological objects from a site in Louisiana dating 
from ca. 1735, and General Sheridan's saddle. 

SCIENTISTS' REPORT 

The cal scientists had several interesting projects this year. The 
biggest — over two acres in area — was explaining why the new roof 
of the Arts and Industries Building drips during fine weather in 



224 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



early summer (cal report no. 3366). It seems that condensation 
occurs in winter just inside the outer skin of the lead-coated copper. 
Soluble fireproofing salts leach out of the plywood that underlies 
the copper and collect on surfaces within the roof and on the iron 
beams supporting the roof. In early summer the direction of air 
flow reverses: the warm, moist outside air cools as it passes through 
to the interior. The air gives up its moisture to the salts which 
reliquefy and drop to the floor as a saturated solution. This theory 
will be tested by monitoring temperature and relative humidity 
within the roof through the winter and into next summer. 

The problem of damage caused by materials within an object or 
in materials used to display or store the object has become a major 
preoccupation of the lab. The main cause of trouble is acetic acid 
which diffuses out of wood and corrodes many materials. (Examples 
of corrosion of this sort were shown in last year's annual report.) 
This year another remarkable example was found: a cowrie shell 
of aragonite (calcium carbonate) deeply corroded to form calcium 
acetate and calcium formate (no. 3472). It had been stored for 
several years in a small oak box. 

Sometimes damage is caused by substances within the object 
itself. Two such cases were investigated this year. One was a 
pair of aviator's goggles (no. 3463) whose rubber parts had be- 
come soft and sticky at the surface. This was because soap was used 
during manufacture to emulsify the rubber so that it could be 
poured as a liquid into a mold. The soap was trapped in the rubber 
as it set by loss of water. Soap is not soluble in rubber so, over a 
long time, it migrates to the surface. 

A rather similar problem turned up on a roll of film from the 
National Archives (no. 3492). Crystals of triphenyl phosphate en- 
crusted the edges of the film and had also grown between the film 
base and the emulsion. Triphenyl phosphate is used as a plasticizer 
in cellulose diacetate film base. The film probably contained a 
residue of acid left from manufacture. This acid slowly hydrolyzed 
the film to cellulose, giving off acetic acid, which could be smelled 
on opening the can. Triphenyl phosphate is insoluble in cellulose 
and so it migrated out to the surface. 

Atmospheric moisture is necessary for the stability of absorbent 
materials but it also causes trouble by chemical reaction. Some blue 
beads decorating a skin tunic had decomposed the leather thongs 



Museum Programs I 225 



on which they were strung whereas beads of other colors caused 
no damage (no. 3527). cal scientists made a cross section of the 
beads and studied them under the electron microprobe belonging 
to the Smithsonian's Department of Mineral Sciences. The bad 
beads proved to be made of a glass containing sodium which had 
suffered replacement by hydrogen from atmospheric moisture. The 
sodium migrated to the surface to form sodium hydroxide, a strong 
alkali that quickly reacts with atmospheric carbon dioxide to form 
sodium carbonate which is also sufficiently alkaline to gelatinize 
and weaken leather. 

Excessive moisture was also troubling the fish collection. The 
Department of Fishes at the National Museum of Natural History 
stores its catch in vats filled with a mixture of alcohol and water 
which was becoming too wet because alcohol evaporates more 
rapidly than water from the mixture (no. 3471). cal scientists con- 
firmed the accuracy of the assay method used by the Fishes staff 
and worked out a formula for calculating the alcohol concentration 
needed for topping up the tanks. 

The human touch is a major cause of trouble for museum objects, 
particularly for absorbent materials such as paper, cal scientists 
worked out a way of replicating the pattern of embossed paper so 
that blind people may enjoy In Touch, an exhibition of apparatus 
and books for the blind organized by Elizabeth Harris. Standard 
methods of copying embossed paper are not safe for museum 
objects, cal devised a method (no. 3495) in which the paper is en- 
closed in an envelope of thin rubber. A partial vacuum is applied so 
that the rubber is pulled close to the paper on both sides without 
any crushing effect on the embossed pattern. Then several layers 
of rubber emulsion are swiftly painted onto the top surface. The 
water in the emulsion is absorbed by a dusting of dry silica gel. 
This inhibits water from diffusing through the thin rubber en- 
velope and softening the paper. It also strengthens and stabilizes 
the rubber mold. The resulting flexible mold bears an accurate 
negative image of the paper. A positive copy can be made in several 
ways such as electroplating, plaster casting, or, as for this exhibition 
for the blind, casting in epoxy resin reinforced with glass fibers. 

A continuing problem for conservators and curators is knowing 
which modern materials to trust for use on or around museum 
objects. The composition of many industrial products is secret and 



226 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



the formulation of a named product may change without warning, 
even from one batch to the next, cal scientists tackle this problem 
in two ways. Commercial products are tested in the lab for their 
effects on objects without identifying all the substances in them. 
For example, some colored felts were tested for their suitability for 
use in a display of clocks (no. 3529). Small samples of felt were 
wrapped around silver foil, put into a glass tube, and placed in an 
oven at 50° C and about 50 percent relative humidity. The silver 
rapidly tarnished, indicating that the felt had given off hydrogen 
sulfide and would probably slowly evolve this gas even at museum 
temperature. This sort of testing is useful and simple — but rather 
wasteful of effort because it only applies to one material to be 
used for one event and the work may have no value to anyone 
else. Sometimes cal staff puts in effort to identify the components 
of a commercial product, find out why it works well, and whether 
it is likely to be safe. As a final check we synthesize our own 
version. Over the years, the staff expects to build up a select list of 
conservation materials of known effectiveness and of openly pub- 
lished composition. 

ADMINISTRATION 

The role of audiovisual materials in the Conservation Analytical 
Laboratory continued to play an important part in education and 
diffusion of knowledge as twenty-six participants attended the 
eighty, one-hour sessions of lectures on conservation orientation, 
with nine people completing the series and receiving certificates. 

ARCHAEOMETRY REPORT 

Joan Mishara was awarded a year of sabbatical leave in order to 
conduct research on ancient cements, doing field work in Cyprus 
and laboratory studies in the Materials Research Laboratory of 
the Pennsylvania State University. 

An investigation of the use of electron microprobe analysis of 
ceramics was carried out in collaboration with the Department of 
Mineral Sciences. The results were presented at a Smithsonian/ 
National Bureau of Standards seminar on "Ceramics as Archeologi- 
cal Material" as one of twenty-three papers by a group of archae- 
ometrists representing seven countries. 



Museum Programs I 227 



cal has funded a project in the Chemistry Department at 
Brookhaven National Laboratory which involved developing a 
small-scale gas proportional counter to date very small carbon-14 
samples, or objects with very low carbon contents. The counters 
were first tested with known samples of sequoia redwood. Samples 
dated (by tree ring) to be between 37 and 31 B.C. yielded a radio- 
carbon date of 32 a.d. ± 190. An iron bloom attributed to the six- 
teenth-century English explorer Martin Frobisher was discovered 
in the southern reaches of Baffin Island by the party of Charles F. 
Hall and given to the Smithsonian Institution in the nineteenth 
century. The bloom contains approximately 0.05 percent carbon 
and could be dated at Brookhaven. The dates obtained are 1158 a.d. 
± 107 and 1271 a.d. ± 133. This suggests an earlier source for the 
bloom than the sixteenth-century source to which it was tradition- 
ally attributed. 



National Museum Act Programs 

Through its programs of grants, and in keeping with the original 
authorizing legislation of 1966, the National Museum Act (nma) 
continued to provide support for professional training for careers 
within the museum profession, for special studies investigating 
critical museum problems, and for technical assistance to the mu- 
seum field. As in the past, the 1980 guidelines describing the grant 
programs stressed the importance of the conservation of museum 
collections and encouraged the submission of applications for con- 
servation training and research projects. 

In 1980, 156 applications requesting a total of $2,755,000 in 
support were received. This amount was far in excess of the pro- 
gram budget of $802,000. After review by the Advisory Council, 
fifty-nine grants were awarded for a total of $691,000 and an addi- 
tional $24,000 was approved for the three special studies or activi- 
ties described below. Thirty-one of the grants and one of the special 
activities dealt directly with conservation training, research, and 
studies, and more than $350,000 was applied to these purposes. 

Because of the limited funds available, grants given to applicants 
were, in almost every instance, for amounts less than had been 



228 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



requested. These reductions were necessary to assure a useful 
degree of support for the best applications in each grant category. 
Applications received in 1980 reflected the sharp rise in the cost of 
education, and, because of the still acute need for well-trained 
personnel in all phases of museum work, particularly in con- 
servation, two-thirds of the 1980 grant funds were applied to 
stipends for conservation training, graduate/professional museum 
studies, internships, seminars, and travel/study programs. Since 
educational costs continue to rise, a similar distribution of available 
grant funds may be likely in 1981. 

Grantees are required to provide reports during and at the con- 
clusion of grant-supported activities. Reports filed in 1980 contain 
considerable evidence of benefits resulting from nma support for 
museum training over the last several years. Trainees have been 
able to progress to advanced levels of study in conservation theory 
and practice; many have joined conservation departments of major 
museums and others are developing specialized skills needed to 
care for collections containing textiles, paper, paintings, and arche- 
ological and ethnological materials. Graduate and professional 
museum study programs, and internships, have produced personnel 
knowledgeable in curatorial and managerial practices that are im- 
portant not only to museums but to zoological parks and herbaria 
as well. Seminars, offered at both the regional and local levels, 
have made it possible for a large number of people to acquire new 
or updated information on a wide range of museum subjects. 
Reports from grantees also show that the quality of museum 
training programs has improved substantially over the years; in 
many institutions, degrees or certificates are now awarded for 
museological and conservation studies. 

During 1980, the nma Advisory Council, recognizing that most 
of the support for museum training was given to persons seeking 
to establish careers in museum work, developed a new grant 
category to be offered in 1981. This category, Fellowships in 
Museum Practices, will give established museum personnel an op- 
portunity to enhance their professional competence or acquire new 
skills and information through "refresher" courses or other study 
arrangements. To meet their responsibilities, museums are finding 
it necessary to use new technologies such as computers to apply 
new management principles to their operations, and to strengthen 



Museum Programs I 229 



the educational portions of their programs. This new grant category 
will allow those presently working in museums to learn more about 
these and similar topics. 

As a means of assessing important museum issues and to assure 
that specific grant categories effectively address real needs, the Ad- 
visory Council has from time to time recommended that special 
studies be made of critical problems for which little precise in- 
formation exists. In 1980, three such special studies or activities 
were authorized. One, closely related to the new Fellowships in 
Museum Practices grant program, dealt with mid-career training for 
museum personnel and brought together museum and educational 
experts to define standards and recommend suitable curricula for 
such training. Another conference provided a forum for repre- 
sentatives of visual resources collections and information science 
professionals to discuss problems of indexing and retrieving visual 
image data, a matter of great concern for institutions holding masses 
of visual materials. Participants came from the Library of Congress, 
International Museum of Photography, Harvard Semitic Museum, 
Yale Center for British Arts, National Collection of Fine Arts, 
Public Archives of Canada, and other distinguished organizations. 
The third special study or activity was an interdisciplinary con- 
ference on the general problem of fumigating museum collections, a 
complex matter affecting conservation and curatorial procedures, 
legal and regulatory obligations, the effectiveness of pesticides, and 
the identification of pests and the kinds of damage they do. The 
reports being prepared as a result of these special studies will not 
only guide the Advisory Council, but also be of great value to the 
entire museum field and its professional associations. 

Results of prior year grants for research projects in conservation 
and other fields also became evident this year. A proposal supported 
in 1976 for the development of a personnel policy manual for 
museums produced a report that has now evolved into a book, 
Personnel Policies for Museums: A Handbook for Management, 
by Ronald L. Miller of the University of Illinois, published this 
year by the American Association of Museums. New information 
on the causes of deterioration of nineteenth-century albumen photo- 
graphic prints, which form part of the collections of many museums 
and historical organizations, has come to light through research 
being conducted at the Rochester Institute of Technology. This 



230 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



information will prove helpful in establishment of standards for 
optimum storage conditions for such prints, and will contribute to 
the development of new restoration treatments for them. A major 
research report, the product of a cooperative project between the 
University of Maryland and the Washington Conservation Center, 
has been completed and filed with the National Museum Act office. 
The research led to the development of an analytical procedure 
to be used to study the effects of environmental and human actions 
on fabric-supported oil paintings, thus providing a way for failure 
mechanisms to be better understood. As part of the research, a 
mathematical model was developed to permit numerical verification 
of the effect of various influences on paintings. It is expected that 
when disseminated the report will generate great interest within 
the conservation profession. 

The diversity and range of research and study grants made by 
the Advisory Council are illustrated by all the examples described. 
Throughout the year, the National Museum Act office maintained 
close liaison and exchanged information with agencies and other 
organizations that make grants to museums. The office has also 
prepared a brief summary of its grant programs for inclusion in a 
special catalogue of grant opportunities being prepared and dis- 
tributed by the Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities. 

In 1980, the National Museum Act was reauthorized for fiscal 
years 1981 and 1982. 



Office of Exhibits Central 

On the last day of fiscal year 1980, the Office of Exhibits Central 
(oec) packed and shipped the Smithsonian Institution Traveling 
Exhibition Service (sites) exhibition The Contemporary American 
Potter: New Vessels. It was one of twenty-four new sites ex- 
hibitions designed, edited, and produced by oec this year. At the 
same time, the first exhibitions for the oec/sites fiscal year 1981 
schedule were being completed: two editions of Jupiter and Its 
Moons — one show to open at the National Air and Space Museum 
on October 9, the other to open in Cincinnati on October 18. For 
this exhibition, the Models, Plastics, and Restoration Unit (mpr) of 



Museum Programs I 231 



oec had built highly detailed scale models of the Voyager space- 
craft, mpr modelmakers were also beginning to work on a life-size 
model of a late-Cretaceous period flying reptile with a wingspan of 
40 feet; Quetzalcoatlus northropi, which had required about two 
years' study working with several small-scale models, was made to 
be suspended in the dinosaur hall of the National Museum of Natu- 
ral History (nmnh). oec's Motion Picture Unit was completing, at 
the same time, a nine-minute film to be shown in nmnh's new Coral 
Reef exhibition, which opened in mid-October. Such was the pace 
and the variety of tasks that began — and highlighted — the year for 
the Office of Exhibits Central. 

A total of 319 requests for participation in or assistance on the 
exhibitions and the exhibit-related activities of the Institution's 
bureaux, museums, and program offices were recorded by oec this 
year; more than 225 were completed. As in each year since the 
office was established, oec worked with just about every Smith- 
sonian unit on the National Mall and beyond. A sampling follows. 
Certain oec staff again served as faculty for Office of Museum 
Programs (omp) professional workshops in Washington, and trained 
interns — from the United States and abroad — in oec shops and 
offices. Workshops were also given by oec in several American 
cities in conjunction with the programs of omp, the Smithsonian 
National Associate Program (snap), and the North American Indian 
Museums Association. Jim Mahoney, oec chief, traveled to Kuwait 
to serve on an international committee to advise on the planning 
for a new National Museum of Kuwait. John Widener, assistant 
chief, and Karen Loveland, director of the Motion Picture Unit, 
both visited Puerto Rico to advise on planning for the National 
Museum of Natural History of Puerto Rico. Assistance and guidance 
were also provided to other United States government offices, to 
other museums, and to educational institutions. The Freeze-Dry 
Laboratory, for instance, completed a 34-pound beaver (after two 
and a half months in the freeze-dry chamber) for 80-year-old 
Princess Redwing and the Narragansett Tribal Museum in Rhode 
Island, and the Exhibits Editors' Office wrote and edited a script 
for the fiftieth anniversary exhibition of the Federal Prison 
System. 



232 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



EXHIBITS EDITORS' OFFICE 
The Exhibits Editors' Office prepared scripts for all of the twenty- 
four new sites exhibitions, provided traditional support to the 
National Mall museums, and, as in past years, had considerable 
involvement in editing the Program Book for the Festival of Ameri- 
can Folklife. Two exhibitions were edited specially to communicate 
with a handicapped audience. Out of Africa, an exhibition of the 
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum (anm), was edited for the hear- 
ing-impaired. Considerable coordination with the anm education 
office and advice from Gallaudet College were needed to determine 
the level and style of writing best suited for those who suffer 
hearing loss. The labels for the National Museum of History and 
Technology (nmht) exhibition In Touch, describing reading and 
writing techniques for the blind in the 1800s, were produced in 
braille. In this case, the label copy was specified for braille "lan- 
guage" and the printed labels were then set in that particular style. 
The Exhibits Editors' Office also assisted and worked with the De- 
partment of Justice, the office of the Architect of the Capitol, and 
the curator of the Supreme Court this year. The Supreme Court 
exhibition Charles Evans Hughes: The Eleventh Chief Justice, an 
extensive rewriting and editing project, opened in October 1980 
and will remain on view at the Supreme Court for over a year. 

FREEZE-DRY LABORATORY 
The Freeze-Dry Laboratory prepared specimens for nmnh, including 
a beautiful 20-pound bald eagle, and several specimens for the 
Zoolab at the National Zoological Park. The lab is lending assist- 
ance to outside organizations by preparing two baboons for the 
Southwest Research Institute for use in research on electric con- 
ductivity, oec anticipates that these specimens will be given to the 
Smithsonian at the completion of the research project. The manual 
on Treeze-Drying Biological Specimens, written by Rolland Hower 
and published by the Smithsonian Institution Press last year, has 
almost sold out the first press run and a second printing is being 
considered. The book has resulted in a notable increase in cor- 
respondence to the Freeze-Dry Laboratory. Students from India, 
Libya, and Germany have worked in the lab this year and, be- 
cause Mr. Hower has some skill in signing, a deaf employee from 
the National Park Service also received training and experience in 



Museum Programs I 233 



osteological preparation and subsequently assisted in preparation 
and articulation of a 10-foot Pacific crocodile skeleton for nmnh's 
vertebrate paleontology exhibits. 

MOTION PICTURE UNIT 

The Exhibits Motion Picture Unit also completed the year with an 
active schedule. For the coming year, two films on the handicapped 
are planned with the Office of Elementary and Secondary Educa- 
tion and the Office of Telecommunications in conjunction with the 
International Year of the Disabled. Films for nmnh, the Freer 
Gallery of Art, and the nmht are all in planning and scheduling 
stages, as is documentary coverage of activities for the Office of 
Folklife Programs. This year, the Motion Picture Unit completed 
three films in conjunction with the living Coral Reef exhibition at 
nmnh: a nine-minute film for the exhibitions, a three-minute short 
(for the Office of Public Affairs), and a public-service spot an- 
nouncement for television. Two films were produced for the nmht's 
exhibition The Clockwork Universe — an exhibition film and a tele- 
vision spot — plus a television spot for The Nation's Attic. A film 
animated by Film Polski in Warsaw, Changes: The Story of Evolu- 
tion and Speciation, for the Zoo, is in the final production stages. 
Documentary footage has been shot during the year for the Folk- 
life Programs: British ballad singers in New Brunswick and New 
York, and old-time medicine show entertainers in Bailey, N.C.; for 
the nmht: retrieval of the engine from the 131-year-old ship Indiana 
in Lake Superior, and the first automatic packaging machinery at 
the Seidlitz Powder factory in Edison, N.Y.; and for the oec: the 
fabrication of leaves for life-size dioramas in the shops at 1111 
North Capitol Street. Artist Jacob Kainen was videotaped for the 
National Collection of Fine Arts, and assistance in filming the open- 
ing ceremonies was provided for the United States Department of 
Education. 

As in years past, the Exhibits Motion Picture Unit and its staff 
were recognized by the film industry for its productions. Thomas A. 
Edison and His Amazing Invention Factories received the CINE 
Golden Eagle Award from the Council on International Non- 
theatrical Events. Reunions — Memories of an American Experience, 
coproduced with the Office of Telecommunications, was awarded 
the Chris Plaque at the Columbus Film Festival, and the World 



234 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Wildlife Film Festival gave a "Special Recognition Award for 
Unique Approach to a Wildlife Film" for The Big Cats and How 
They Came to Be. This animated film was also selected for public 
viewing at the Yorktown International Film Festival. 

MODELS, PLASTICS, AND RESTORATION UNIT 

Aside from preparing to build the flying reptile with its 40-foot 
wingspan, the mpr staff produced an extremely diverse amount of 
modelmaking that is unique in the museum profession. An early 
shrew about 3 inches long (plus tail) was exactingly sculpted and 
cast for the nmnh series of paleontology exhibits, for which a great 
many other animal and plant forms are being made. Mannequins 
were made and costumed in various styles and poses for both 
nasm and nmht. Planning and experiments with new materials 
were carried out preparatory to refurbishing the National Mall 
directories, and plastics continue to be used to create everything 
from jellyfish models to coconut shells. For the nmht exhibition 
In Touch, the mpr staff worked in close collaboration with the 
Conservation Analytical Laboratory to reproduce the delicate early 
braille and other relief forms from paper and cardboard originals 
and thus provide touchable — readable for the blind audience — 
exhibition objects. This is the first time that this has been success- 
fully and safely done as direct-contact replication. 

PROJECTS AND RESOURCES 

In addition to all these projects, oec staff assisted several other 
organizations within the Institution and in the museum com- 
munity. This assistance occasionally took the form of consultancy 
only, sometimes involved training, and, in a few instances, was 
performed personally, on off-duty time. Projects included: installa- 
tion of the sites exhibition Played With Immense Success: Louisiana 
Music, 1840-1940, A Singing Century (produced by oec in fiscal 
year 1978) in the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts; prep- 
aration of the first exhibit on rare books by the Dibner Library and 
its installation at the nmnh; preparation and installation for omp of 
exhibits for the "Children in Museums" conference at the National 
Gallery of Art; and assistance on the first exhibition for the opening 
of the Jewish Museum of Washington, D.C., and on the annual 
exhibition of the Art Directors Club of Metropolitan Washington. 



Museum Programs I 235 



A large planning model (done in sections) of all the galleries of the 
Renwick building was also completed. 

A Victorian Horticultural Extravaganza, an exhibition by the 
Smithsonian's Office of Horticulture, involved considerable par- 
ticipation by several oec units over a period of about nine months. 
The Exhibits Editors' Office worked on the labels and typography. 
The Models, Plastics, and Restoration Unit produced many varieties 
of period Wardian cases and other floral accessories and restored 
several original pieces. The Fabrication Unit's Cabinet Shop and the 
Finishing Shop did an impressive amount of new construction and 
restoration of period exhibition cases and backdrops, and assisted 
the Office of Horticulture staff and volunteers installing the show 
in the Arts and Industries Building. 

Thus, much of what is actually produced by oec are component 
parts of the exhibitions, other presentations, and the exhibit-related 
activities of the Smithsonian Institution chronicled elsewhere in this 
annual report. Individual projects are what oec feels it does best. 
At no time has the entire oec staff worked on one specific program. 
Instead, select teams of specialists, occasionally individual staff 
members, are always active on different jobs, working with different 
Smithsonian units, thus fulfilling the mission of oec as a central 
resource of the Institution. 



Office of Horticulture 

During 1980, the Office of Horticulture expanded its activities into 
new research, educational, and exhibition programs. Much of this 
growth was due to increased private assistance for exhibitions and 
for acquisition of collections of living plants and decorative art 
objects relating to the history and evolution of horticulture. 

Throughout the year, the office contributed to more than 238 
special events which included Regents' dinners, a dinner honoring 
the king and queen of Belgium, the "Portrait Ball" at the National 
Portrait Gallery for the National Associate Program contributing 
members, and major openings of exhibitions in several Smithsonian 
museums. For such events, the office provided floral arrangements, 
potted palms and other tropical plants, as well as rare and unusual 
orchids. 



236 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



WAon 



A '. 



f jtmp*»~~* 



\lQfalacfad TnaufsSo om£&rm 



— 



This reproduction of early "relief" printing for the blind was created by the Con- 
servation Analytical Lab and Exhibits Central for nmht's In Touch exhibition so that 
visitors could experience through touching forerunners to braille type. Below. The 
parlor gardening display in the Victorian Horticultural Extravaganza exhibition at 
Arts and Industries features a Wardian case and other late nineteenth-century horti- 
cultural elements highlighted by the Office of Horticulture. 




The Education Division, under the direction of Ms. Lauranne C. 
Nash, staged the third annual Trees of Christmas exhibition at the 
National Museum of History and Technology from December 14, 
1979, to January 2, 1980. All of the ornaments were provided by 
individuals, volunteer groups, or ethnic organizations. When the 
exhibition closed, the ornaments were contributed to the Institution. 
The Education Division also accessioned 2,200 plants and prepared 
records for approximately 10,000 plants accessioned in previous 
years. The horticultural book collection expanded by over 250 
volumes, most of them relating to mid- to late-nineteenth-century 
Victorian gardening. In addition, during this last year the interior 
plant program of the Freer Gallery of Art became the responsibility 
of the Education Division of the office. 

With the cooperation of many other Smithsonian bureaux and 
units, the Office of Horticulture prepared and opened, on the west 
balcony of the Arts and Industries Building, an exhibition entitled 
A Victorian' Horticultural Extravaganza. The exhibition was de- 
signed to highlight all disciplines of nineteenth-century horticulture: 
floriculture (flowers), ornamental horticulture, olericulture (vege- 
tables), and pomology (fruits); the commerce that grew out of these 
disciplines; and their relationships to the decorative arts during 
the period 1836-1906. The exhibition was funded through the gen- 
erosity of the floral industry of America; approximately $130,000 
in cash donations were received from individuals, floral organiza- 
tions, and corporations, and a large number of objects of the 
Victorian period were contributed. Among these were a large col- 
lection of Victorian posy-nosegay holders, antique florist supplies, 
and memorabilia given by Mrs. Frances Jones Poetker of Cin- 
cinnati, Ohio; and a wire floral frame collection given by the de- 
scendents of Henry Weber, grower-florist, of Oakland, Maryland. 
The opening of the exhibition on July 22, 1980, was scheduled to 
coincide with the annual meetings, held in Washington, of the 
American Institute of Floral Designers and the Society of American 
Florists. Members of these organizations created special floral 
arrangements and contributed thousands of fresh flowers for the 
occasion. 

The orchid collection grew substantially in quantity and quality 
in 1980. In November 1979, Mrs. Beverly Pabst of Hillsborough, 
California, donated the renowned orchid collection of her late 



238 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



husband, Mr. Rudolph Pabst. This remarkable and rare collection 
of over 1,500 members of the Orchidaceae family, especially of the 
red-orange hybrid Cattleyas, added an entirely new dimension to 
the display and hybridization collection. Also in November 1979, 
a field expedition team consisting of Mr. James R. Buckler, Mr. 
Paul E. Desautels, Dr. Robert Read, and Smithsonian photographer 
Mr. Jeffrey Ploskonka, collected more than six hundred orchids 
and one hundred bromeliads in Panama to add to the Smithsonian 
collection. These orchids are housed and maintained at the Green- 
house-Nursery Division under the direction of Mr. August A. 
Dietz IV at the United States Soldiers' and Airmen's Home. The 
orchid collection, along with the bromeliad and miscellaneous tropi- 
cal plant collections, is used for exhibitions and as a source of future 
hybridization and plant exchange programs with botanical gardens 
and private collectors. 

During the year, the office presented three exhibits at Washington 
area plant and flower shows, including Florafest I which took 
place on March 14-16, 1980, at the United States Botanical Garden; 
the Fall Flower and Garden Show sponsored by the Falls Church 
Garden Club on September 20-21; and the Eastern Orchid Congress 
held on September 26-28, 1980. The design, installation, and main- 
tenance of these exhibits were under the direction of Mr. John W. 
Monday, assistant director of the office, and Mrs. Kathryn Meehan, 
exhibits design specialist. 

A ten-year lease was negotiated with United States Soldiers' and 
Airmen's Home to allow for future development of new areas for 
greenhouses, cold frames, lath house structures, and for new re- 
search and office space. One of the buildings at the Home, known 
as House #8, will provide year-round conditions for housing the 
expanded orchid collection. The Greenhouse-Nursery Division 
which operates this facility was responsible for the production of 
over 125,000 annual bedding plants; 12,000 cut flowers; and ap- 
proximately 9,000 seasonal plants such as poinsettias, chrysanthe- 
mums, and Easter lilies. The division also maintained several 
thousand tropical plants used in special events and exhibitions, and 
produced and maintained approximately 16,000 orchids and 600 
bromeliads. These collections will provide the plants to be rotated 
in the Victorian Horticultural Extravaganza exhibition in the Arts 
and Industries Building. Volunteers contributed more than 1,640 



Museum Programs I 239 



hours of effort to assist with the care of these collections at the 
Greenhouse-Nursery Complex. 

The Grounds Management Division, under the direction of Mr. 
Kenneth Hawkins, installed 120,000 annuals, 110,000 spring 
flowering bulbs, 20,000 pansies, and more than 600 ornamental 
cabbage and kale plants for flower beds on Smithsonian grounds. 
Special projects included installation of the Smithsonian sunburst 
logo in front of the Joseph Henry statue on the National Mall; 
moving of two 40-foot weeping beeches; planting of 500 English 
yews and 4 Ginko trees as part of the renovation of the Hirshhorn 
Museum and Sculpture Garden; planting of flowers and institu- 
ing of a grounds maintenance program for the Museum of African 
Art; and development of a new embroidery parterre for the Vic- 
torian Garden. Also in 1980, the Grounds Management Division 
assumed responsibility for all exterior trash removal for Smith- 
sonian museums on the National Mall. 

The garden furnishings collection was expanded this past year 
through the selective acquisition of fine pieces representative of 
various forms and styles of furnishings used in gardens during the 
last half of the nineteenth century. Many of these objects are being 
shown in the Victorian Horticultural Extravaganza exhibition. 
Pieces acquired included eleven urns, six settees, cast iron cemetery 
bouquet holders, plant stands, iron chairs, a cast iron table, a wire 
hanging shelf, and a pair of fine wrought-iron gates. Of special 
interest in this group are the folding wire plant stand and two oak 
leaf and acorn cast iron settees by James Beebe of New York; and 
a swan-style settee and an urn and pedestal by J. McLean, also of 
New York. 

In 1980, the Office of Horticulture was involved in planning sev- 
eral new projects and contributed to development of a number of 
long-term programs. In cooperation with the Cooper-Hewitt Mu- 
seum, final planning was begun for an exhibition, Horticulture and 
the Decorative Arts, to be opened in New York City in July 1981. 
Private support from floral organizations is being sought to assist 
with this three-month exhibition and the renovation of the Cooper- 
Hewitt Conservatory. The office contributed to the development 
of plans for the Sensory Garden to be located in the area between 
the Arts and Industries Building and the Hirshhorn Museum; this 
project is scheduled for completion in the spring of 1981. In addi- 



240 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Hon, the office began to produce plants for the Museum Support 
Center grounds and has worked with the landscape architectural 
firm of Sasaki Associates on the development of plans for the 
South Quadrangle grounds. 

This year was a particularly active one for Mr. James R. Buckler, 
director of the office, who presented lectures throughout the 
country, many for the National Associate Program, others for pri- 
vate and scholarly organizations having an interest in horticultural 
developments. In addition, Mr. Buckler continued to publish his 
monthly column "Flora Smithiantha" in the Smithsonian Torch. 

The Office of Horticulture benefited immeasurably during 1980 
from the help given to its programs by informed, hard-working, 
and dedicated volunteers; many of these programs could not have 
taken place without this generous help. 



Office of International Activities 

The objects of cultural history and the specimens of natural history 
preserved in Smithsonian museums, as well as the professional 
people who study and exhibit them, are employed in a global re- 
search and educational process. The Office of International Activ- 
ities contributes to this process by fostering international dimen- 
sions of Smithsonian programs. It does so by advising program 
managers and by maintaining liaison with the United States and 
foreign governments, with private institutions around the world, 
and with international organizations. 

The efforts of the past ten years to restore scholarly exchanges 
with China met with singular success in 1980. Smithsonian interest 
in China was evident as long ago as 1862 when Smithsonian Con- 
tributions to Knowledge included a series of monographs entitled 
"Geological Researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan," by 
Raphael Rumpelly. This interest is embodied in collections of the 
Freer Gallery of Art which since 1906 has distinguished itself as 
an American center for the study of the art history of China. 
World War II and civil war in China interrupted Smithsonian ex- 
changes with that country until 1971. That year the Smithsonian 
International Exchange Service resumed shipping American 



Museum Programs I 241 



scholarly publications to many Chinese institutions. In 1972, the 
National Zoo proposed and managed the exchange of breeding 
pairs of musk oxen and giant pandas as gifts marking President 
Richard M. Nixon's historic visit to the People's Republic. On that 
occasion, Dr. Theodore Reed, director of the Zoo, visited Beijing. 
Subsequent visits by Smithsonian personnel contributed to grow- 
ing communications and the exchange of specimens. Visits of note 
were made by Freer Gallery of Art director, Thomas Lawton, and 
its head conservator, William T. Chase III, as part of the first 
American delegation of archeologists in 1973; by Secretary Ripley 
and Edward Solomon Ayensu, curator of botany, in 1975; and by 
Smithsonian-sponsored groups of American zoo directors and of 
the National Associate Program's board in 1978. 

Chinese delegations visited the United States in growing num- 
bers following President Nixon's visit to China in 1972. Many 
visited the Smithsonian and the Office of International Activities 
contributed to arrangements for those with shared professional 
interests, including librarians, laser experts, astronomers, higher 
education and science and technology administrators, botanists, 
and paleobiologists. In 1980 alone, Chinese groups receiving Office 
of International Activities assistance numbered eighteen, totaling 
191 Chinese individuals. 

The most significant development in 1980 was the travel of a 
Smithsonian delegation to China at the invitation of the Scientific 
and Technical Association of the People's Republic of China. The 
invitation proposed discussion of exchanges in biology, archeology, 
and museum management. The delegation of twelve scholars was 
led by Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs. 
It represented the interests of the Smithsonian in China and in- 
cluded members from the Freer Gallery of Art, the National Por- 
trait Gallery, the Conservation Analytical Laboratory, the Chesa- 
peake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, the National Museum 
of Natural History, the National Zoological Park, and the Smith- 
sonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama. Vice-Premier Fang 
Yi, the responsible person for science and technology in China, 
welcomed the delegation and its proposals for collaboration. Dele- 
gation members discussed research objectives with Chinese col- 
leagues, examined research collections in natural and cultural his- 
tory, and lectured to scholarly groups in museums and research 



242 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



institutes in Beijing, Datong, Qingdao, Xian, Nanjing, Shang- 
hai, Kunming, and Guangzhou. The entire visit to China was 
characterized by the warmest hospitality and by professional can- 
dor. Secretary Ripley invited the Scientific and Technical Associa- 
tion to send a return delegation to the Institution, now expected to 
come in 1981. 

As a consequence of the Smithsonian delegation's visit to 
China, Secretary Ripley sent to Vice-Premier Fang in April 1980 a 
Smithsonian proposal suggesting collaboration with many of the 
Chinese institutes and scholars visited by the delegation. 

Secretary Ripley subsequently visited China in May and June 
1980 to take part in the Academia Sinica Symposium on the 
Qinghai-Xizang (Tibet) Plateau and in a survey of the Plateau. 
While in Beijing, he met with Vice-Premier Fang who suggested 
on the basis of the April 1980 Smithsonian proposal that the Insti- 
tution and the Chinese Academia Sinica explore establishment of 
formal ties. To this end, a draft agreement between the Smith- 
sonian Institution and the Academia Sinica was sent in July to the 
Vice-Premier and to the Secretary General of the Academia Sinica, 
Mr. Yu Wen. 

Traditional Smithsonian exchanges with Cuba, started in 1849 
when volume 1 of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge was 
mailed to the Real Sociedad Economica in Havana, were restored in 
1980 after a nineteen-year lapse. The Smithsonian and the Cuban 
Academy of Sciences agreed on procedures for the exchange of 
scholars. 

Fostering other Smithsonian programs abroad, the office sup- 
ported 122 projects, providing logistical and facilitative support 
through correspondence with the United States diplomatic missions 
abroad and with foreign governments and their embassies in 
Washington. In addition, 35 programs abroad of other institutions 
which involve the Smithsonian received assistance. Forty foreign- 
exchange visitors and students took part in Smithsonian research 
and related programs, and 25 other foreign participants in 
Institution activities received assistance on administrative and visa 
matters. The office also continued to process passport and visa ap- 
plications for the duty travel abroad of Smithsonian staff and 
Smithsonian-sponsored scholars. 

Including the Chinese visitors to the Smithsonian in 1980 men- 



Museum Programs I 243 



tioned above, the office arranged 103 programs involving 453 for- 
eign visitors with interests in the museums and laboratories of the 
Institution. 



Office of Museum Programs 

The Office of Museum Programs organizes and conducts several 
distinct but interrelated activities and services for the professional 
enhancement of museum personnel and for the improvement of 
museum operations. Its training activities include presenting a 
series of workshops and seminars, planning internships, and mak- 
ing arrangements for professional visits, particularly for foreign 
museum personnel. A special part of this activity concentrates on 
providing training and advisory services for Native American mu- 
seums. The office produces and distributes informational audio- 
visual presentations on conservation principles, undertakes studies 
to evaluate museum exhibits and educational programs, maintains 
a museum reference center consisting of books, periodicals, re- 
search papers, and documents on museums, and offers counseling 
services on museum careers, training, and practices. 

WORKSHOPS AND INTERNSHIPS 

In 1980, the office continued its series of three- to five-day work- 
shops to provide training opportunities for museum professionals 
in the United States and abroad. During the year, 618 persons at- 
tended the thirty workshops that were offered. Those participating 
represented all types and disciplines of museums, and came from a 
broad geographic distribution that included most states in the 
continental United States as well as Alaska and Hawaii. Museum 
professionals from Canada, Sweden, Peru, India, and Italy also 
attended. Workshops dealt with exhibit preparation, grants, con- 
servation and preventive care for collections, museum insurance 
and loan agreements, computerization, museum archives, lighting, 
museum membership programs, freeze-dry techniques, evaluation 
studies, public information and publications programs, and funda- 
mentals of museum management. The office also offered a short 
series of workshops for Smithsonian staff members; topics in- 



244 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



eluded museum lighting, label writing and editing, and informa- 
tion management and automation. 

As an extension of the Smithsonian-based series, Nancy Welch, 
training coordinator, organized six cosponsored workshops in other 
parts of the country. Five of these were presented in cooperation 
with the Southern Arts Federation and one with the National Park 
Service. The cosponsors paid all costs involved. These out-of-town 
programs provided professional training experiences to more than 
one hundred individuals from member museums of the federation 
and from the exhibits staff of the National Park Service. This was 
the second year of successful cooperation with these organizations, 
and it is likely that the arrangement may be expanded in the future 
to include interested groups in other parts of the country. 

Over the last six years, the internship program has offered op- 
portunities for specialized museum training to some five hundred 
persons. Interns come to the Smithsonian from undergraduate and 
graduate programs, from other museums, and as representatives of 
foreign governments. During 1980, the office placed forty-two in- 
dividuals in internship positions throughout the Smithsonian. In 
addition to those from the United States, internships were ar- 
ranged for persons from Kuwait, Nigeria, India, Germany, 
England, Peru, Zambia, Turkey, and Sweden. Internships do not 
carry credit or provide financial support; the period of training 
may last from two months to two years, but the average program 
runs for about six months. As with the workshops, focus of the 
internships is on museum practices; intern assignments may in- 
volve assisting with educational programming, exhibit or collec- 
tions research, cataloguing, or design and exhibit production activ- 
ities. Long-term interns, especially those from foreign countries, 
often elect to travel as part of their program; in such cases, the 
office prepares special itineraries for them to assure that visits 
are made to museums that are able to respond to their interests. 

In 1980, forty-two persons were served through the visiting 
professional program; participants came from the United States, 
Mozambique, France, India, Italy, Australia, the Netherlands, 
Argentina, and Canada. This program is designed to serve indi- 
viduals who are able to remain at the Smithsonian for less than a 
month, are interested in research and training activities here, and 
wish to establish professional contacts. 



Museum Programs I 245 



NATIVE AMERICAN MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

The Native American Training Program enjoyed remarkable suc- 
cess in 1980. Of great significance was the establishment of a con- 
tract between the Smithsonian and the Department of Labor to 
support the internships, workshops, and technical assistance being 
offered to Native American museum personnel. 

This year, the Smithsonian Institution and the North American 
Indian Museums Association conducted four workshops which 
reached ninety-two participants. These workshops were held at 
Phoenix, Arizona; Cody, Wyoming; Seattle, Washington; and 
Anchorage, Alaska. Since the training program began, nine work- 
shops have been presented, attended by more than three hundred 
Native Americans. In addition, this year thirty-three Native Ameri- 
can museum employees were placed as interns at the Smithsonian, 
the Museum of New Mexico, the New York State Museum, the 
Makah Cultural and Research Center, the Cherokee Nation Indian 
Museum, and at other notable institutions. The Native American 
community is also being served through a conservator based in 
the Conservation Laboratory of the Department of Anthropology 
of the National Museum of Natural History. The conservator, who 
works closely with James A. Hanson, the Native American train- 
ing coordinator, provides needed information, technical assistance, 
and conservation services for selected collection items from tribal 
and other museums. Further attention to collections was provided 
by Mr. Hanson who conducted on-site evaluations and offered 
technical assistance at twenty-five Native American museums. 

There have been other forms of assistance: the Conservation 
Information Program of the Office of Museum Programs helped, 
for example, to produce the videotape Sacred Objects: A Native 
American Perspective, which is being used by the North American 
Indian Museums Association as an educational tool to inform the 
museum community at large about this sensitive and timely issue. 
The program coordinator has also devoted much time to advising 
various Smithsonian personnel on important subjects that relate to 
current Native American matters. 

AUDIOVISUAL LOAN PROGRAM 

Audiovisual presentations have proved to be one of the most 
effective ways of conveying information on basic principles of con- 



246 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



servation, and of creating an awareness of the need for caution 
and care in the application of these principles to museum collec- 
tions. The Conservation Information Program has prepared and 
distributes a library of eighty-three videotapes and twelve slide- 
cassette shows which deal with the theory and practice of conser- 
vation and, in 1980, has continued to produce and plan further 
productions on this vital subject. A new videotape entitled Con- 
servation of Gilded Wooden Objects is being produced in coopera- 
tion with the National Collection of Fine Arts. During the year, 
moreover, students from American University who were enrolled 
in a work-study program with the Office of Museum Programs 
prepared five scripts now ready for production. These include 
three slide shows dealing with The Care of Japanese Paintings on 
Silken Paper, The Examination and Handling of Paintings on 
Canvas and Wood Panels, Recognized Conservation Problems of 
Ethnographic Objects, and two videotapes, Handling Furniture and 
The Examination of Paper Objects. Plans are being developed for 
remaking several of the basic conservation lectures given by 
Robert Organ, director of the Conservation Analytical Laboratory. 
These videotape lectures, which are presented periodically at the 
Smithsonian, are also widely distributed to museums in the United 
States and abroad. They will serve as part of the instructional pro- 
gram for the training of conservators at the Museum Support 
Center. 

The Conservation Information Program, which is supervised by 
Mrs. Elena Borowski, has recently expanded its efforts to develop 
audiovisual programs on museum education, and has cooperated 
with several other Smithsonian bureaux in the preparation of 
videotapes which record special subjects and events. Three of 
these, produced by the Smithsonian Office of Folklife Programs, 
describe children's games from African, British, and Chinese tra- 
ditions. Another provides complete videotape coverage of the mat- 
ing of the giant pandas at the National Zoological Park. The 
program Sacred Objects: A Native American Perspective, dealing 
with Native American artifacts and their use and exhibition in 
museums, is being used widely. These cooperative efforts have 
been made possible by the acquisition of improved videotape 
equipment that permits mobility in the recording of such pro- 
grams. 



Museum Programs I 247 



During 1980, 188 slide shows and 856 videotapes were re- 
quested by and loaned to 57 institutions; in addition, 25 slide 
shows and 1 videotape were sold. The current mailing list of the 
Conservation Information Program includes some 15,000 museums, 
organizations, and individuals. 

Other programs begun in 1980 include preliminary production 
of the videotape Museum Careers, which will be released in 1981; 
preparation of a videoscript about the Discovery Corner of the 
National Museum of History and Technology; and distribution of 
slide-cassette programs produced by the Advisory Council on 
Historic Preservation on the subjects of Preservation and Energy 
Conservation and Conservation and Urban Revitalization. In Sep- 
tember, Mrs. Borowski participated in a special meeting held at the 
International Centre for Conservation in Rome which dealt with 
the application of audiovisual techniques to conservation training. 

MUSEUM EVALUATION STUDIES 

To make museum exhibitions and educational programs more 
effective and useful for the visiting public, the Museum Evaluation 
Studies Program (formerly the Psychological Studies Program) ex- 
amines the perception and opinions of visitors — and from these 
develops recommendations for future programmatic development 
and exhibit planning and design. This work has been performed 
by Dr. Robert Wolf, consulting psychologist, of the University of 
Indiana, Bloomington. During the year, two evaluation studies 
were completed at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. 
One examined an educational outreach program for gifted and 
talented elementary school children, and the other investigated 
reactions of visitors to their museum visit experience. A formative 
evaluation study of the Coral Reef exhibition was completed at the 
National Museum of Natural History. This study is unique be- 
cause it occurred while the exhibition was being developed and its 
findings had the effect of allowing visitors to participate in de- 
velopment of the exhibition. At the same museum, an evaluation 
study was begun of the Hall of Evolution; another was started at 
the Renwick Gallery to examine the program for a pan-Smith- 
sonian exhibition currently under development. 



248 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



MUSEUM REFERENCE CENTER 

The Museum Reference Center, a unit of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Libraries located in the Office of Museum Programs, is both a 
library and a resource center with collections of bibliographic and 
documentary materials on the history, philosophy, and operation 
of museums, as well as on legislation, conferences, and other de- 
velopments affecting museums. The center remains the only 
location in the United States with information specifically as- 
sembled and collected on a systematic basis for use by the museum 
profession. In 1980, collections of the Museum Reference Center 
grew substantially. In addition to the normal acquisition of ma- 
terials, large quantities of new materials were received as a result 
of increased awareness within the museum profession of the exist- 
ence of the center. Further, materials received in 1979 from the 
Center for Museum Education were integrated into the collections. 
Some additional space was also provided to accommodate this 
growth. To assist new visitors to the Museum Reference Center, 
an orientation package titled Noio That You're Here was compiled. 
The materials in the packet include a floor plan, a list of recent ac- 
quisitions, publication lists, including information on audiovisual 
resources for museums, and a description of the services offered. 

The center has received visits from large and small groups 
having a special interest in this type of information center. During 
the last year these have included the participants of the American 
Indian Library Cultural Centers project; librarians and information 
specialists from Guam; interns from the Historical Society of York 
County, Pennsylvania; and small groups from the Museum Studies 
Program of George Washington University. As a result of corre- 
spondence from a scientist in Nanking, People's Republic of China, 
the center is receiving Chinese-language publications in exchange 
for photocopies of museology articles and books donated by United 
States publishers. The February 1980 issue of History News, pub- 
lished by the American Association for State and Local History, 
contained an article "Light under a Bushel," by Paula Degen; it 
describes the activities and resources of the center, and produced 
a large and appreciative response. The center was also profiled in 
the fall 1979 issue of the MAHD Bulletin (Museums, Arts, and 
Humanities Division of the Special Libraries Association). 



Museum Programs I 249 



The center now offers a total of forty-three bibliographies on 
museum subjects, two of them developed during the past year. One 
of these, Children in Museums, was produced for the international 
symposium sponsored by the Office of Museum Programs in Octo- 
ber 1979. The center also contributed to the forthcoming Union 
List of Art Periodicals and Serials in Research Libraries in the 
Washington, D.C., Metropolitan Area. 

During the year, plans moved forward toward the development 
of a computer data base to be produced cooperatively with the 
National Museums of Canada. Mrs. Rhoda Ratner, librarian of the 
Museum Reference Center, conducted a session on museum 
libraries at the annual meeting of the American Association of Mu- 
seums. The proceedings of that session, which are to be published, 
will be of great interest to the profession. The librarian is also a 
member of the committee to complete the English portion of the 
Dictionarium Museologicum being produced by the terminology 
working group of the Institute of Conservation and Methodology 
of Museums, Budapest, in cooperation with the Documentation 
Committee of the International Council of Museums. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

More than one hundred people this past year availed themselves 
of the career counseling which the Office of Museum Programs 
offers to persons interested in entering the museum field or to those 
seeking to enhance their careers. An equal number received infor- 
mation and advice on a variety of museum practices and manage- 
ment methods, as well as on the organizational structures of mu- 
seums. These individuals come from many countries around the 
world as well as from the United States. 

Staff members are also active in regional, national, and inter- 
national museum activities. In late 1979, the office organized and 
conducted the major international symposium Children in Mu- 
seums, as part of the observance of the International Year of the 
Child. The symposium dealt with issues, such as curiosity, 
learning to see, participatory experiences, intercultural relation- 
ships, perception, and the future of museums. In addition, the office 
organized and conducted a meeting on mid-career museum train- 
ing to establish standards and criteria for training programs to 
enable presently employed museum personnel to become better in- 



250 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



formed of new technologies and management systems that are 
rapidly being adopted by museums. 



Office of the Registrar 

For some time a need has been felt for more comprehensive docu- 
mentation of policies on the management of the Smithsonian's 
collections. Acting on a recommendation made during the study 
on collections policies and management, the Office of the Registrar 
recently developed a plan and formulated an institutional policy 
designed to fill this need. The new policy, which was issued by the 
Institution this year, requires each collecting bureau to draft a 
policy document addressing nine basic topics in a given sequence 
but allows the bureaux freedom in tailoring policy statements to 
accommodate their individual circumstances. Guidelines for the 
formulation of museum collections policies were developed by a 
task force of the Collections Policy and Management Committee 
and distributed with the Institution's master policy. As the year 
drew to a close, drafts of the bureaux' policy documents were 
being processed for approval. Each bureau policy, when approved, 
will become part of the Institution's over-all policy on collections 
management. 

Meanwhile, the office continued to pursue its ongoing activities 
related to the information management aspects of collections man- 
agement. The workshops on registration methods and on com- 
puterization for museum collections have become regular features, 
with both Smithsonian and non-Smithsonian personnel partici- 
pating in them. The Registrarial Council continues to function as a 
medium for cooperation among the Institution's registrars and for 
the exchange of information on matters of professional interest. 
The task forces working under the Collections Policy and Man- 
agement Committee continue to pursue various projects, some of 
them based on findings in the original study and others initiated 
since then. In addition to managing the logistics of these task 
forces, the office monitors progress in the collection inventories of 
the various bureaux and provides periodic status reports for use 
by management. 



Museum Programs 1 251 




A panel of children, these from Washington, shared their impressions of museums 
as part of the international symposium on Children in Museums organized by the 
Office of Museum Programs. Below. Rhoda Ratner, the librarian at omp's Museum 
Reference Center, pulls a file from the subject collection. This major file, twice as 
large as the book collection, is of paramount value to museology researchers since it 
includes materials not available in published form: typescripts, theses, program 
papers, checklists, gallery notes and brochures, newspaper clippings, museum policy 
guides. (Photos by Eleanor Crow.) 




Smithsonian Institution Archives 

During 1980, selection and preservation of archives continued in 
the National Museum of Natural History, the National Museum of 
History and Technology, and the National Collection of Fine Arts. 
An archives program was established for the Cooper-Hewitt Mu- 
seum, and work began on an archival program for the Smithsonian 
Astrophysical Observatory. Disposition of records continued under 
established schedules, with progress in the Smithsonian Credit 
Union, the Accounting Division, the Office of Protection Services, 
and the Office of Personnel Administration. 

Three student interns spent varying amounts of time in the 
Archives. A graduate student from Georgia Southern College spent 
several months in the Archives doing research for her master's 
thesis on the Theodore Roosevelt/Smithsonian African expedi- 
tion of 1909-1910; a library science student from the University of 
Maryland spent time in the Archives studying the theory and prac- 
tice of archival administration; and a deaf student from Gallaudet 
College completed a work-study program designed to prepare him 
for a career in archives administration. 

Scholars continued to visit the Archives during the past year. 
Several recent publications have appeared, based at least in part 
on material in the Archives. Among them are: Nathan Reingold, 
ed., The Papers of Joseph Henry: January 1836-December 1837, 
The Princeton Year (Washington, D.C., Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1979); Charles Coleman Sellers, Mr. Peak's Museum: 
Charles Willson Peale and the First Popular Museum of Natural 
Science and Art (New York: W. W. Norton, 1980); William H. 
Truettner, The Natural Man Observed: A Study of Catlins Indian 
Gallery (Washington, D. C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979); 
Richard E. Blackwelder, The Zest for Life, or Waldo Had a Pretty 
Good Run: The Life of Waldo LaSalle Schmitt (Lawrence: The 
Allen Press, 1979); and Rexmond C. Cochrane, The National 
Academy of Sciences: The First Hundred Years, 1863-1963 (Wash- 
ington, D.C.: National Academy of Sciences, 1978). 

Work in progress includes an edition of the letters and diaries of 
George M. Dawson of the Geological Survey of Canada, a history 
of the Ethnogeographic Board, a history of the development of the 
Santa Barbara channel, and a history of the United States Army in 



Museum Programs I 253 



California. Other projects include a history of the National Zoo- 
logical Park, a history of whaling, and a history of nineteenth- 
century ornithology, as well as biographical studies of Theodore 
Roosevelt, Elliott Coues, Fielding B. Meek, James Graham Cooper, 
P. T. Barnum, and Lorin Blodget. 

Material from the Archives was included in two recent exhibi- 
tions: Who Built Alexandria? Architects in Alexandria, 1750-1900, 
held at Carlyle House in Alexandria, Virginia, October 6-Decem- 
ber 2, 1979, and The Metalwork of Albert Paley, held at the John 
Michael Kohler Arts Center in Sheboygan, Wisconsin, April 13- 
June 1, 1980. 

Major accessions were received from the Office of the Secretary, 
the Assistant Secretary for Science, the Smithsonian Institution Li- 
braries, the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 
the National Museum of History and Technology, the National 
Museum of Natural History, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the 
Division of Performing Arts, and the Smithsonian Astrophysical 
Observatory. Other accessions of note included the papers of 
Archie F. Wilson, Floyd A. McClure, Paul Conger, Edward R. 
Warren, and Kjell Sandved, as well as additions to the papers of 
S. Dillon Ripley, Spencer F. Baird, Watson Perrygo, and Alexander 
Wetmore. 

The Archives Oral History Program continued emphasis on the 
history of the United States National Museum and Smithsonian ad- 
ministrative history. Accessions included a series of interviews 
with Watson M. Perrygo, field collector and taxidermist for the 
United States National Museum. Materials prepared for research 
use during 1980 include interviews with James C. Bradley, retired 
Under Secretary. 

In 1980 the Smithsonian Archives, the National Anthropological 
Archives, and the Archives of American Art conducted a workshop 
for museum archivists. The workshop, sponsored by the Office of 
Museum Programs, attracted eleven participants — from locations 
throughout the United States — who were provided the informa- 
tion necessary to establish an archival program in their respective 
museums. It is anticipated that the workshop will become an an- 
nual event. 



254 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Smithsonian Institution Libraries 

The Smithsonian Institution Libraries system (sil) in 1980 contin- 
ued its programs of support to Smithsonian research as well as 
museum and administrative bureaux. Further, the Libraries by par- 
ticipation in the building of the national bibliographic networks, 
and by exhibitions, loans, and information services has been of 
direct service to national audiences. 

Nineteen hundred eighty was also marked by a self-examination 
of strengths and by planning for the decade. This focusing was oc- 
casioned, first, by the appointment of a new director and, second, 
by the recognition that the electronic technologies employed in the 
United States are now of such sophistication, quality, and avail- 
ability that the 1980s will be a time of profound change in infor- 
mation transfer — and that research libraries will be tied together 
and cooperate in resource sharing in ways not before envisioned. 

While the Smithsonian Institution Libraries is a system em- 
bracing only 80 percent of the Smithsonian's library-type activities 
and none of the other Smithsonian information programs, it is 
nevertheless recognized as a major academic and research facility 
available not only for the internal use of Smithsonian staff, but for 
all serious persons. Since the staff and thirty-five collections of the 
system are dispersed in and around Washington, as well as in four 
other cities of the United States and in the Republic of Panama, the 
size and scope of sil services is sometimes overlooked. Thus, re- 
view and assessment of the sil system was pushed forward in 
1980 to achieve clearer understandings. 

AUTOMATION 

In 1965, the Libraries inaugurated one of the first automated book 
and journal ordering systems in North America. In 1974, catalogu- 
ing began cooperatively via an on-line national computer net- 
work. In 1978, computer-assisted reference work in arts, sciences, 
and humanities data banks and interlibrary loans were pursued 
by a national electronic network. In short, a subtle but profound 
shift in the ways the Libraries does business has occurred. In 1980 
this movement of automation intensified. 

A full year of on-line reference service was observed in July 
with more staff now trained to use the new electronic reference 



Museum Programs I 255 



"books/' with the expansion of the number of data bases sub- 
scribed to, and with the addition of terminals at the sil branches 
in the National Zoological Park and in the National Museum of 
History and Technology. In this same year, thanks in major part 
to a grant from the Atherton Seidell Fund, telefacsimile trans- 
mission was begun by the system's Central Information Services in 
Washington with Smithsonian and other research libraries possess- 
ing such technology. This has resulted in more rapid sending and 
procurement of print information, especially of periodical articles. 
Further, planning was completed and contracts let for sil cata- 
logue production directly from computer to microfiche. The first 
edition of the computer output microfiche (com) catalogue will ap- 
pear early in 1981, being supplemented weekly and cumulated 
quarterly. Thus, the Libraries' entire catalogue will be readily 
available at multiple locations both within the Smithsonian and 
outside, and the costly manual maintenance of many card cata- 
logues avoided. The com catalogue is slated to give way to an on- 
line catalogue well before the end of the decade. Training was 
given to equip staff better for the new national standards (Anglo- 
American Cataloguing Rules, 2d ed.), important in construction of 
these electronic indexes. 

COLLECTIONS 

Despite past decisions of the Institution to transfer large and im- 
portant collections to the Library of Congress, the Smithsonian 
Institution Libraries is today responsible for a million-volume col- 
lection. Over the last decade the Libraries' administration realized 
that collections do not merely exist; they need help. Thus, in 1974 
a special division was set up to handle vast backlogs of uncatalogued 
or incompletely catalogued materials; this unit will continue efforts 
to inventory and register collections at the same time that these 
and other older records are put into machine-readable format. The 
project is called retrospective conversion and was planned in 1980. 
Another sign of concern for the collections was shown in 1976 
when the Libraries' Book Conservation Laboratory was founded. 
This high-state-of-the-art restoration facility added two conserva- 
tors in 1980 and continued to serve the nation by the preservation 
of the important sil collections and by sponsoring tours, workshops, 
and internships. 



256 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



In 1980, the care of especially valuable items in the Libraries' 
collections was stressed through the organization of a Special Col- 
lections Branch. While the Smithsonian Institution Libraries does 
not collect rare materials per se, it does conserve, exhibit, and 
otherwise make available treasures that support the purposes of 
Smithsonian research interests. The presence of qualified librarians 
and three properly secured and atmospherically stable facilities 
made possible such events as the 1980 exhibition Heralds of 
Science, drawn from the gift of Dr. Bern Dibner and marking the 
twenty-fifth anniversary of his work on the landmarks of the his- 
tory of science. This same Special Collections Branch sponsored a 
smaller exhibit in the National Museum of Natural History high- 
lighting the history of museum collecting. 

The most important gift of 1980 is Mr. John H. Phipps's dis- 
tinguished ornithological library consisting of all the major works 
of John Gould, many works of Daniel Giraud Elliot, and other 
significant titles. The six's collection of Goulds and Elliots is now 
virtually complete. Among the works new to the sil, Gould's The 
Birds of Australia, The Birds of Asia, and The Birds of New Guinea 
are perhaps the most important. An exhibition is planned for Sep- 
tember 1981. 

Administratively the problems of selection and deacquisitioning, 
conservation, space planning, and collections management policies 
for this large library system were addressed by designating in late 
1980 a new position, namely, Chief, Collections Management. 
Formerly this was one of the duties of the Assistant Director for 
Reader Services, but with the growth of the collections, the in- 
crease in the number of branches served, the expanded range of 
reader services, and the rate of deterioration in collections, one 
person can no longer carry the burden alone. Nevertheless, in 1980 
a collection development policy was edited, recording present 
practice in book and journal selection. This will be fine-tuned over 
the future. 

The Smithsonian Institution Libraries' collections are dispersed 
geographically in branches where they are most apt to serve readers. 
Three new branches were added to the system in 1980, one in the 
Museum of African Art, one in the Office of Horticulture, and one 
being organized for the new Museum Support Center. The local 
branches are staffed by librarians, frequently subject specialists, 



Museum Programs I 257 




The Smithsonian Libraries system has intensified its shift to automation with in- 
creased participation in the computer-assisted national electronic network: a terminal 
in use at the nasm Branch Library. Below. Dr. Bern Dibner (center), donor of the 
distinguished Dibner Library of the History of Science and Technology, talks with 
nmht's Dr. Robert Multhauf (left), Mrs. Multhauf, and Dr. Robert Maloy, Smith- 
sionian Institution Libraries newly appointed director. 




whose chief duties are to assist directly their museum and research 
colleagues, as well as other scholars, and to prepare bibliographies. 
Back-up support in reference, indexing, acquisitions, and adminis- 
tration is supplied centrally by the Libraries' system. 

Thus, for example, in 1980 all cataloguing activities for the Smith- 
sonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama and the Smithsonian 
Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge were assumed centrally. 
Likewise a management analysis was made of the National Museum 
of History and Technology Branch and extra personnel and cata- 
loguing forces were detailed to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum Branch 
in New York City, permitting that library to become fully opera- 
tional. Central strategic assistance also went into development of 
plans for library facilities for the Smithsonian Tropical Research 
Institute in Panama, the Silver Hill Museum Support Center, the 
Chesapeake Bay Center, the proposed Quadrangle complex, as well 
as renovation in the east corridor of the Natural History Building 
for central library operations. This planning activity is critical, 
because the Smithsonian Institution Libraries as a large national 
academic research resource has desperate space needs. 

The Smithsonian Institution Libraries as the largest system serv- 
ing a museum and research complex has been aware of its national 
and international responsibilities, and staff members are increas- 
ingly prominent in professional associations. 



Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service 

Close cooperation with major American and international organiza- 
tions was the hallmark of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling 
Exhibition Service (sites) 1980 exhibition program. Ice Age Art 
was organized with the American Museum of Natural History (New 
York City) as the first comprehensive exhibition of European Upper 
Paleolithic art to be produced in the United States, sites published 
a children's book, On the Rocks: The Story of Prehistoric Art, as an 
educational supplement to the show. From All Walks of Life: Paint- 
ings of the Figure from the National Academy of Design was made 
possible with sites involvement. Foreign negotiations culminated 
in 1980 openings for two major porcelain collections: Sevres Por- 



Museum Programs I 259 



celain and Berlin Porcelain from their respective national manu- 
factories; sites published a major catalogue for each exhibition. 
Another important foreign exhibition was Jacob Jordaens: Drawings 
and Prints, jointly organized by sites and the city of Antwerp. 
sites published a special study guide, Jacob Jordaens: A Baroque 
Master, to complement the exhibition. 

A total of twenty-nine new exhibitions, including those already 
mentioned, began their tours in 1980. Of these, more than one- 
third were photography exhibitions, covering the widest possible 
range of the use of the medium, from fine art with Invisible Light 
and The Photographer's Hand to science with Jupiter and Its Moons 
and Aquaculture: A World View of Seaf arming to history with 
Western Views and Eastern Visions and Photographs from the Col- 
lection of the National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institution. 

At sites in 1980, the emphasis on exhibition interpretation and 
education increased to the point where every one of the twenty-nine 
new exhibitions was supplemented by at least one interpretive tool: 
children's book, catalogue, performing arts, or activity suggestions. 
The most unusual materials produced were a packet of activity 
cards on Victorian architecture entitled "Carpenter's Lace," to ac- 
company the exhibition A Gift to the Street and a coloring poster 
for Flying Fantasies: Butterflies and Moths, entitled "Butterflies 
Colorwise," to be cut out and made into a mobile, sites was sup- 
ported in these efforts by the Smithsonian Educational Outreach 
fund. 

The publication program produced a mail-order catalogue to 
promote sites posters, catalogues, kits, and games to individual 
buyers as well as to other museum stores. A package stuffer was also 
produced, in cooperation with the Smithsonian's Mail Order Divi- 
sion, to notify gift buyers of the availability of sites publications. 

sites produced television public service advertisements to ac- 
company three exhibitions this year: Ice Age Art, Edison and the 
Electrical Age: 100 Years, and From All Walks of Life. Recent pub- 
licity on sites exhibitions included articles in the New York Times, 
the magazines Antiques, Art News, Reader's Digest, and Museum. 
sites began to publicize catalogues and educational materials 
separately from exhibitions. In the first six months of 1980, twenty- 
five newspapers carried articles on sites publications, reaching a 
readership of 833,458. 



260 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



r 





The Smithsonian Archives recently received the papers of Alexander Wetmore, 
revered Secretary of the Institution 1944-52. Wetmore (rt.) and Eric Schlemmer are 
seen here returning from a field trip on Laysan, Hawaiian Islands, May 1923. 



sites staff travel increased with the growth of the International 
Program. Among foreign countries visited were: Egypt, Ireland, 
West Germany, Ecuador, the Dominican Republic, France, and 
England. In the United States, staff members traveled to inspect 
and negotiate exhibitions and also to give lectures and workshops 
on aspects of traveling exhibitions to the professional museum 
community. For the first time, sites presented a specialized panel 
discussion at the annual meeting of the American Association of 
Museums. 

sites entered the computer age in 1980 with the introduction of 
two computer terminals. Although the computer will not be fully 
functional until 1981, much of the preliminary program design and 
even partial implementation was completed this year, sites will 
utilize the computer for registrarial and administrative functions to 
benefit from its potential for easing clerical chores while at the 
same time providing in-depth interpretive information about how 
the exhibitions are used. 

Culminating the year's activities was the appointment of a new 
director for sites, Peggy A. Loar, formerly assistant director for 
programs and policy for the Institute of Museum Services. She 
intends to strengthen the sites program in this country and extend 
its offerings abroad. 



262 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Tours for period October 1, 1979, through September 30, 1980 

Number of bookings 820 

Number of states served (including Washington, D.C.) 49 

Estimated audience 4-5 million 

Exhibitions listed in last Update 

(catalogue of sites exhibitions) 110 

Exhibitions produced for tour during the year 29 



Exhibitions beginning tours October 1, 1979, through September 30, 1980 

Albert Einstein Photographed by Lotte Jacobi 

Aquaculture: A World View of Seaf arming 

Berlin Porcelain 

Buildings Reborn: New Uses, Old Places (2d version) 

Children's Art from the People's Republic of China 

Contemporary Czechoslovakian Printmakers 

Cut On Wood 

Dance Masks of Mexico 

Designs of the Ndebele 

The Farallon Islands: A Conservation Success Story 

Flying Fantasies: Butterflies and Moths 

From All Walks of Life: Paintings of the Figure from the National 

Academy of Design 
A Gift to the Street: A Patternbook of Victorian Architecture 
Ice Age Art 

Image of the Black in Western Art 
Impressions/Expressions: Black American Graphics 
Invisible Light 

Jacob Jordaens: Drawings and Prints 
Jupiter and Its Moons 
Mexico as Seen by Her Children 
Musical Manuscripts 
The Photographer's Hand 
Photographs from the Collection of the National Portrait Gallery, 

Smithsonian Institution 
Pochoir 

Portraits and Dreams : Photographs by Appalachian Children 
Ryijy Rugs from Finland: 200 Years of a Textile Art 
Sevres Porcelain 

Western Views and Eastern Visions 
The Working American 



Museum Programs I 263 



•:?.'.-.■■■■■■'>.- ■;;.'-'■■■;■..■: . '■■;■'•■.,.■'.■.■•:'■•:.'■■ ;■/.■;.. 



If 



■A 




41 



-ft :'•« 






4^# 1 



nU 



In search of what Duke Ellington called that perfect note, saxophonist Bob Wilber, 
leader of the Smithsonian Jazz Repertory Ensemble, rehearses for a concert spon- 
sored by the Division of Performing Arts. 



Smithsonian Year • 1980 



PUBLIC SERVICE 



JULIAN T. EUELL, 
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR PUBLIC SERVICE 



Anacostia Neighborhood Museum 

Located off the Mall in historic Anacostia, this Smithsonian com- 
munity-based museum of Afro-American history and culture 
collects, studies, preserves, and exhibits the evidences of the 
contributions of black people to American history — from a black 
perspective. 

Named for the American Indians once indigenous to this South- 
east Washington community, the Anacostia Museum — since its 
founding in 1967 — has produced innovative and stimulating ex- 
hibits for new museum audiences. A prototype among museums, 
its multi-ethnic exhibits and multidisciplined programs offer a new 
approach to historical exhibits of varying themes. A pioneer in 
ethnic, family, and social history, and more than a storehouse of 
knowledge, the museum has significantly contributed to the con- 
cept and dialogue of the black diaspora. 

Successful in reaching people of different backgrounds and life- 
styles, the museum has served its local constituency through the 
development of programs and special-interest exhibits which are 
changed periodically. It has also reached a broad national audience 
through traveling exhibitions, many of which are available through 
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. Among 
them are The Frederick Douglass Years: 1817-1895, Blacks in the 
Westward Movement, and Black Women: Achievements Against 
the Odds. 

The professional staff of the museum is able to take an idea and 
transpose it through visual concept to a finished three-dimensional 
exhibit. In-house capabilities include design, graphics, cabinetry, 



265 



photography, modelmaking, and conservation. As the design and 
production arm of the museum, the exhibits laboratory is equipped 
and staffed to be almost totally self-sufficient. 

The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum experiments with new 
techniques and formats in the development of its educational pro- 
grams. Participatory programs encourage both young and older 
visitors to explore and expand their notions of a museum. Educa- 
tional activities run the gamut from inquiry-based tours and teacher- 
training workshops to black history flannelboard stories and pre- 
sentations by performing artists. A new program is the department's 
Black Heritage Puppet Theater which orients and prepares young 
people for museum visits. Curricular materials such as A Walk 
Through "Old" Anacostia, How to Turn Your Classroom into a 
Museum, and Frederick Douglass: A Fighter for Freedom are ex- 
amples of publications serving both a local and a national audience 
of museum educators, teachers, and librarians. Additionally, the 
museum continues to expand its services to the handicapped 
through exhibit labels and summaries written in simplified English 
for the hearing-impaired, and self-guided tape cassettes for the 
visually handicapped. 

Among the exhibitions scheduled for the 1980s are Anna ]. 
Cooper: A Voice from the South, a retrospective on the literary 
and culturally aesthetic period of the Harlem Renaissance, and 
Antiquity: Africa and World Culture. 



Division of Performing Arts 

The 1980 publications and programs of the Division of Performing 
Arts within established guidelines increased public enlightenment, 
capitalized on the experience of previous years, and strengthened 
support of museum exhibits and interpretive functions. Examples 
of these activities include an exhibition and working conferences 
on the culture of the civil rights movement. We'll Never Turn 
Back, an exhibition of photographic documentation of the move- 
ment, was presented by the division in collaboration with the 
Museum of History and Technology. Voices of the Civil Rights 
Movement included workshops on the role of music in the civil 



266 / Smithsonian Year 1980 




In a summer workshop sponsored by the Office of Elementary and Secondary Educa- 
tion, teachers discover that extraordinarily rich but often neglected curriculum 
resource — a local cemetery. Below. As part of the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum's 
1980 series, award-winning author Mrs. Eloise Greenfield shares readings from her 
stories and poetry with a uniquely responsive audience. 



FR °M KINGDOMS TO COAST/ 




rights struggle together with public concerts of the songs that 
lent energy and momentum to various communities. The working 
conferences reviewed the oral and visual record of the movement 
and analyzed its basis in black oral tradition. This project was 
cosponsored by Howard University, which received a grant from 
the National Endowment for the Humanities. 

Another example of intrabureau cooperation was the Spring 
Celebration and Conference on the History of American Popular 
Entertainment, a joint venture of the division and the Museum of 
History and Technology. Other programs of this nature included 
the Holiday and July Fourth Celebrations, collaborations again with 
the Museum of History and Technology; concerts of twentieth- 
century music presented with the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture 
Garden; performances of Asian music and dance supported by an 
exhibit of artifacts from the Museum of Natural History; and con- 
certs of nineteenth-century music performed at the Renwick 
Gallery. 

Programs devoted to public enlightenment of the arts in America 
included five separate series of concerts of jazz, country music, the 
American musical theater, the American dance experience, and 
black gospel music. These programs were so enthusiastically re- 
ceived by the public that additional performances had to be 
scheduled. 

The Discovery Theater presented eight month-long performances 
of puppet theater, and explorations of dancing, clowning, acting, 
and singing to audiences of more than 62,000 children. This activity 
continues to bring children to the museums and, through carefully 
prepared learning packets designed for classroom use, to enhance 
the educational experiences of young visitors. 

Participating artists for the 1980 season included Roger Miller, 
Max Morath, the Dixie Hummingbirds, Don Gibson, Jaap Schroder, 
Sonya Monosoff, Malcolm Bilson, Tom T. Hall, The Art Ensemble 
of Chicago, Woody Herman, the Emerson Quartet, the 20th Cen- 
tury Consort, Richard Smallwood and Myrna Summers, Stan Getz, 
The Royal Dancers and Musicians of Bhutan, Gunther Schuller, 
the United House of Prayer, and many others. 

Recordings released by the Division of Performing Arts in- 
cluded: Songs of the Civil Rights Movement, a musical docu- 
mentary; The Legendary Freddie Keppard, a rare, archival reissue 



268 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



of performances by one of the early jazz pioneers; Funny Face and 
Band Wagon, archival reconstructions of original-cast recordings 
from the musical theater; The Music of James P. Johnson and Fats 
Waller, performed by the Smithsonian Jazz Repertory Ensemble; 
and Duke Ellington — An Explosion of Genius, featuring the work 
of one of America's greatest composers in 1938, 1939, and 1940. 
The division also continued to publish its bimonthly educational 
journal Notes on the Arts, and several staff members contributed to 
popular and scholarly publications. 



International Exchange Service 

Since 1851, the International Exchange Service has provided a sys- 
tem whereby learned societies in the United States can exchange 
their publications for those of foreign organizations. This pro- 
gram has continued through the years, enabling many colleges, uni- 
versities, scientific societies, and medical and dental libraries to 
exchange their current and duplicate publications with similar orga- 
nizations in other countries. During fiscal year 1980, publications 
were received from more than 260 organizations in the United 
States for distribution overseas, and — for United States addressees 
— from more than 400 foreign organizations. 

In 1886, the service was designated as the bureau through 
which United States government publications are exchanged with 
foreign governments for their official publications. This exchange 
includes the daily issues of the Congressional Register and Federal 
Register and the weekly issues of the Compilations of Presidential 
Documents, plus all other publications designated by the Library 
of Congress for depository libraries. 



Office of Elementary and Secondary Education 

A firm belief in the power of museum objects as educational re- 
sources is the guiding principle behind the activities and programs 
of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education (oese). With 



Public Service I 269 



the conviction that it is equally as important for students to learn 
to use works of art, natural history specimens, historical artifacts, 
and other museum objects as research tools as it is for them to use 
words and numbers, oese continues to serve the Smithsonian's 
education offices while working to meet a solid commitment to 
foster the educational uses of museums in the Washington, D.C., 
area and throughout the nation. 

In fiscal 1980, this commitment led to the expansion of a major 
program (now in its second year) designed to make Smithsonian 
education programs more accessible to disabled children and adults. 
With support from the Smithsonian Educational Outreach Program, 
oese is working with bureau education offices to adapt educational 
programs to the needs of hearing-impaired visitors as well as the 
needs of visitors with such developmental disabilities as cerebral 
palsy and mental retardation. A number of programs have been 
undertaken. (2) Sign interpretation classes for volunteers and staff 
are conducted at both beginning and intermediate levels. (2) A 
series of four one-week summer courses for hearing-impaired 
children involve sessions at the Chesapeake Bay Center for En- 
vironmental Studies, the National Zoological Park, and several 
National Mall museums. (3) Sign and oral interpreters are provided 
for performances and special events such as puppet shows and the 
Festival of American Folklife. (4) An induction loop system for 
visitors who use hearing aids has been installed in Baird Audi- 
torium. Plans are under way for a special series of Institution-wide 
programs and events to mark the International Year of Disabled 
Persons in 1981. When oese provided an interpreter for a hearing- 
impaired child who recently visited the Smithsonian, the child's 
mother wrote: "This is to convey our deep gratitude to you for 
arranging for an oral interpreter for our daughter, Lynn, on our 
visit to Washington, D.C. It was a wonderful learning experience 
for her . . . and the first time she's gotten all the information on 
any kind of tour." Although the programs highlighted here are 
only a few of the many now available to disabled visitors, they are 
excellent indications of the work being done in this area by oese 
and other Smithsonian education offices. 

On the local level, oese continues to offer a number of pro- 
grams that have proven successful in the past and are expanding in 
new directions. Let's Go (a monthly newsletter) and Learning Op- 



270 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



portunities For Schools (an annual brochure) inform teachers of 
the ever-growing variety of Smithsonian services available to stu- 
dents. Multiple copies are sent free to approximately 1,200 schools 
in the Washington, D.C., area. 

In December, the third annual "Teacher's Christmas Program" 
was held at the National Museum of History and Technology. 
Traditional Christmas games and foods enriched a tour of the 
museum's holiday exhibits. In May, the seventh annual "Teacher's 
Day" brought more than 85 Washington-area teachers and Smith- 
sonian staff together for activities centering around the National 
Museum of Natural History's Naturalist Center and Insect Zoo. 
More than 370 Washington-area teachers participated in a summer 
program that included courses on such subjects as using the mu- 
seum to teach writing skills, Victorian architecture, teaching about 
the nineteenth century through museum objects, and insects in your 
classroom. 

In addition to these programs for local teachers, two one-week 
summer workshop sessions were offered to teachers nationally. 
These courses, held at the Smithsonian, involved classroom teachers, 
school librarians, and curriculum specialists from twenty-seven 
different states in graduate-level work accredited by the University 
of Virginia. Using Smithsonian collections and exhibits, course 
participants learned how to employ objects, portraits, and related 
community resources — such as historic houses — as teaching tools. 
Life in nineteeth-century America following the Civil War served 
as a theme for the course instruction. As a final project, the 
teachers were required to develop curriculum units in art, history, 
and science that would draw on the resources of their own com- 
munities. This new oese effort was well received by all participants 
and will be repeated in 1981. One teacher wrote on the evaluation: 
"I have found this to be the most stimulating course I've had in 
many a year. I consider myself extremely lucky to have been chosen 
and I do not leave disappointed. I only wish there were more such 
courses to look forward to." 

Also for teachers nationally, the distribution of Art to Zoo — a 
publication to promote the use of museums, parks, libraries, zoos, 
and other community resources — reached approximately 50,000 
classrooms. During the 1979-80 school year, Art to Zoo was ex- 
panded to six pages to include a student supplement with each 



Public Service I 271 



issue. Called the "Pull-Out Page/' this supplement contains articles 
and activities on a variety of subjects relating to the Smithsonian 
collections. As one teacher wrote us: "The newsletter Art to Zoo 
is a continuing source of inspiration to me. I look forward to each 
issue and want to thank you for the beautiful work you are doing 
for teachers throughout the country." 

In conjunction with Art to Zoo, two new audiovisual projects 
have been developed. Supported by a grant from the Women's 
Committee of the Smithsonian Associates, staff members from oese 
and the National Portrait Gallery produced a slide package entitled 
The Museum Idea, showing elementary school teachers and students 
ways to create a museum in the school classroom using materials 
readily at hand. This package — slides, a taped narration, and a 
teacher's guide — is now available for national distribution. 

In cooperation with the Department of Anthropology, oese is 
continuing preparation of a media kit for high school students 
drawing on the extensive papers and collections of the nineteenth- 
century naturalist, Edward W. Nelson. This program, funded by the 
Smithsonian Educational Outreach Program, was tested in schools 
during the 1979-80 school year and will undergo final testing and 
revision in 1980-81. It is anticipated that the Nelson Kit will be the 
first in a series of curriculum units on various aspects of the 
Smithsonian collections in art, history, and science. 

In 1980, oese sponsored its sixth annual program for summer 
interns. "Intern '80" brought twenty-seven high school seniors 
from rural and inner-city communities to the Smithsonian to par- 
ticipate in learning and service projects. The students worked 
under the guidance of curatorial and technical staff members in 
various parts of the Institution. The program often provides stu- 
dents with new perspectives; as one intern explained, "The differ- 
ent kinds of people I worked with made my job even more enjoy- 
able and made me feel at home. I enjoyed the chance to see a 
museum behind the scenes and the work that goes into keeping 
a museum alive." 

Other important oese activities include developing a series of 
teacher workshops and student tours for the District of Columbia 
public schools, with support from the Cafritz Foundation; and ex- 
panding the scope and understanding of the professional museum 
educator through participation in national and regional conferences 



272 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



and workshops, oese staff members also helped to plan and teach 
seminars on docent training, museum/school relations, and museum 
interpretation. These seminars were offered at the Smithsonian by 
the Office of Museum Programs. 



Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars 

The year 1980 brought many opportunities for the broadening of 
the Institution's symposia and seminar programming, linking the 
humanities and sciences for the benefit of students at the high 
school and university levels, as well as the continuing exchange of 
new knowledge among more advanced scholars and the sharing of 
its implications with academic, professional, and concerned lay 
audiences. The office's activities include the bringing of specific 
groups to the Smithsonian for specially prepared interdisciplinary 
presentations by the Institution's curatorial and research staff and 
the providing of specialized educational outreach. 

In addition to the year's accomplishments, intensive planning for 
the seventh international symposium, How Humans Adapt: A Bio- 
cultural Odyssey, has brought about the selection of the project's 
principal participants, each of whom will provide an original 
statement forming a chapter in the volume to be published from 
the November 1981 program. The symposium is organized to ex- 
amine the present situation of our species, how we got where we 
now find ourselves, and what our directions should be for the 
future. Under the chairmanship of James V. Neel, Lee R. Dice Uni- 
versity Professor of Human Genetics, University of Michigan 
Medical School, a small informal committee is developing a week's 
calendar of scholarly sessions and related events. Serving with 
Professor Neel are Stephen Toulmin, Committee on Social Thought, 
University of Chicago (symposium rapporteur), Donald J. Ortner, 
Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural His- 
tory (symposium editor), and Director Wilton S. Dillon and Associ- 
ate Director Dorothy Richardson, Office of Smithsonian Symposia 
and Seminars. 

Through the initiative of Senator Robert Morgan, Smithsonian 
Regent, the second and third seminars in the series arranged for 



Public Service I 273 



gifted high school students from rural North Carolina took place in 
October 1979 and April 1980. "The Quest for Beauty" centered on 
deeper understanding of the arts and humanities, while "Human 
Development: A Zoological Perspective" pursued a study of primate 
behavior and human civilization. Organized by Carla M. Borden 
and financed by the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation and the North 
Carolina Association of Electric Cooperatives, Inc., these seminars 
featured presentations by Smithsonian curators, participation in 
ongoing cultural events, special behind-the-scenes briefings, and 
informal discussion over several days. This highly successful 
program will continue and be adapted to serve youth from other 
parts of the country. 

Observance of the Einstein Centennial continued with the col- 
loquium The Muses Flee Hitler held February 7-9, 1980, for which 
sixteen essayists were assembled to examine the mass upheaval 
caused by the rise of Nazism — and the influence on American 
cultural expression of those coming to the United States. The 
sessions covered such aspects of this historic phenomenon as the 
intellectual decapitation of Germany under the Nazis; American 
refugee policy in historical perspective; the Bauhaus and its 
further development in America; and the contributions of newly 
arrived artists and intellectuals to American writing, music, archi- 
tecture, science, and filmmaking. 

Interest has been stimulated in establishing a public dialogue 
on citizenship education and how participation in self-government 
is being influenced by new advances in communications technology. 
Director Dillon has helped organize a forum to examine how educa- 
tional institutions and civic action groups might best contribute to 
greater public awareness of the responsibilities and duties of in- 
dividuals as interdependent with their rights. 

An interdisciplinary seminar held August 3-8, 1980, and de- 
signed by the office to introduce a group from the University of 
Hawaii to the cultural and curriculum resources at the Smith- 
sonian was highlighted by the interest of Senator Inouye and 
Representative Heftel in this special program. Developed by 
Dorothy Richardson in consultation with the Institution's pro- 
fessional staff, the series of activities serves as a prototype for 
future seminars prepared for other students and faculty to supple- 
ment formal course work. Professor Alex L. Pickens of the Uni- 



274 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



versity's College of Education, who brought the students to Wash- 
ington, viewed the week as one of enormous educational value 
providing learning experiences not possible elsewhere. 

The office's earlier activities still attract interest and requests for 
associated materials (for instance, Play and Inventiveness in May 
1979 and Pompeii and the Vesuvian Landscape in September 1979). 
Together with many other endeavors and services, the Smithso- 
nian's symposia and seminar series furnish continuing extension of 
its program activities, which it develops as essential elements of 
the Institution's educational outreach goals. 



Office of Telecommunications 

Extraordinary success greeted an innovative radio project launched 
last year. Smithsonian Galaxy, the lively 2 x h -minute feature series 
starring the curatorial, scientific, and research staffs of the entire 
Institution, grew to a regular listenership of 13,000,000 in just 
over a year's time. Broadcast by 190 stations in forty states, in 
Canada and Australia, and in West Germany over the Canadian 
Forces Network, Galaxy now reaches a population coverage of 
60,000,000. 

As Radio Smithsonian, a half-hour weekly program, entered its 
second decade on the air, the Office of Telecommunications (otc) 
took action to begin distributing the program over the public radio 
satellite system. Satellite distribution allows the programs to be 
more timely and will boost potential audiences even higher than 
the current listenership of 6,000,000. 

The enthusiastic reception of these ventures encourages otc to 
continue to be bold in extending the Institution's reach through 
every possible media form. Consequently, the staff is conducting an 
extensive survey of the growing cable television field as an addi- 
tional outreach avenue, otc's goal is for the Institution to be in the 
forefront of cable television, producing quality programming for 
specialized audiences as well as the general public both in this 
country and abroad. 

Previously produced award-winning films which show the broad 
range of Smithsonian activities provide a firm base for entry into 
the cable field. Films such as the overview, The Smithsonian In- 



Public Service I 275 



sdtution with S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, and the re-creation of 
the 1876 Philadelphia Centennial Exposition, Celebrating a Century, 
have already been telecast over cable systems in 1980. Similar 
plans are under way for Mirrors on the Universe: The MMT Story, 
which documents the creation of the multiple mirror telescope, one 
of the world's most advanced astronomical instruments, and Re- 
unions: Memories of an American Experience, which focuses on 
people who have intimate knowledge of objects on display in our 
museums. 

otc is developing new program ideas for video production, both 
for educational and information/entertainment use on cable sys- 
tems. One such proposal would concentrate on live performances of 
musical evenings, public festivals, and scholarly seminars. 

Two films were produced in 1980: A Sense of Discovery, which 
profiles the National Collection of Fine Arts, the Smithsonian 
center for study and encouragement of American art, and Dragon 
of the Trees: The Green Iguana, an animal behavior film which is 
the product of ten years of research at the Smithsonian Tropical 
Research Institute in Panama. Both are slated for telecast over 
public broadcasting stations around the country as well as over 
cable systems. 

Research and development for the office's next major film, a 
sequel to the overview film on the Institution, is in progress. Ex- 
panding on a theme touched upon in The Smithsonian Institution 
with S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, otc projects a thoughtful ex- 
amination of man's collecting instinct and the breadth and depth 
of the Smithsonian collections. As Mr. Ripley has stated, "The 
truth exists in objects." Our museums are more than just cabinets 
of curiosities; the goal is to study why man collects, how, and to 
what ends. 

Explorations continue for projects in the areas of commercial 
network specials and for children's instructional programming based 
on active use of Smithsonian collections. 



Smithsonian Exposition Books 

Smithsonian Exposition Books (seb) extended its list of popular 
Smithsonian-related books with two major publications in fiscal 



276 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



year 1980. The American Land, published in November, is a sampler 
of the historical, cultural, and geographic diversity of the nation, as 
seen through the eyes of artists, photographers, and essayists, 
many of them members of the Institution's staff. From the initial 
promotional mailing to Smithsonian Associates more than 54,000 
copies were sold, in addition to those distributed to the book trade 
through W. W. Norton, Inc. 

The month of May saw publication of Every Four Years: The 
American Presidency, produced under the editorial supervision of 
Dr. Robert C. Post, who took a leave of absence from the National 
Museum of History and Technology to direct the project. Drawing 
on the work of scholars and researchers within the Institution as 
well as historians and journalists outside, the book received signifi- 
cant praise from reviewers in print and broadcast media. In two 
promotional campaigns to Associates during the election year, sales 
of Every Four Years are expected to exceed 90,000 copies. 

Response to backlist Exposition Books titles continues to be 
strong, with A Zoo for All Seasons, seb's offering on the National 
Zoological Park, enjoying considerable popularity. With a highly 
successful promotional program in the summer of 1980, over 
150,000 copies have been placed in the hands of readers. 

In May 1980 James K. Page, Jr., resigned as director of the seb 
program. Glen B. Ruh, the Institution's publications coordinator, 
was appointed acting director, bringing some fifteen years of 
editorial and management experience to the position. 

Exposition Books surveyed and tested proposals for a number of 
potential projects for the future, and continued editorial develop- 
ment of books planned for 1981 and beyond. These projects include 
an anthology of articles from the first ten years of Smithsonian 
magazine, a cultural and historical atlas of the United States, a 
major book on the evolution of life on Earth, and preliminary work 
on a Smithsonian collections series. 

At the close of the fiscal year the seb staff was putting the final 
touches on Fire of Life: The Smithsonian Book of the Sun, scheduled 
for publication in February 1981. As in previous years, seb's goals 
are to continue publication of books related to the Institution's col- 
lections and programs, to expand its marketing efforts to reach 
a broader readership, and to contribute positively to the Institution's 
trust income. 



Public Service I 277 



Smithsonian Institution Press 

There were three developments of principal importance to the 
Smithsonian Institution Press during the year. The first of these 
was the appointment of former Deputy Director Felix C. Lowe as 
director of the Press (succeeding E. F. Rivinus, who will continue a 
more relaxed association with the Press as director emeritus). The 
second development was the gratifying conclusion drawn by the 
Schiffrin Panel (a committee of senior publishers invited to conduct 
a formal review of Smithsonian publishing) that the "Smithsonian 
Institution Press appears to have a clearly defined program, to be 
well managed, and to be in a financially stable position." And third, 
thanks to an invigorated sales program and two highly successful 
copublishing and codistribution arrangements with a prominent 
commercial publishing house, the Press for the first time in its 
history returned a significant net surplus to the Smithsonian treas- 
ury from its trust-funded publishing operations. 

Worthy of note also are benefits to the Smithsonian Institution 
Press from participation in the latest developments in computerized 
composition. After some initial efforts which did not prove success- 
ful, the production staff of the Press has developed with a prom- 
inent Baltimore printing house a completely revamped composition 
and production system, utilizing modern computer technology, for 
all of the series publications. The results have brought notable 
reductions in turnaround time for series manuscripts, with con- 
sequent savings in both costs and staff time. Another Press publica- 
tion produced during the year by computerized methods was the 
index volume of the scholarly four-volume Arts in America: A 
Bibliography. 

Steady recognition of the Press's improved status as a scholarly 
publisher is reflected by increasing numbers of manuscripts — by 
both Smithsonian staff members and authors outside the Institution 
— submitted to the Smithsonian Institution Press for publishing 
consideration. Many of these, particularly those from non-staff 
members, must be rejected as not germane to Smithsonian col- 
lections or research interests. Nonetheless, the number of "jobs" 
logged in, either for full publication or for production servicing 
by the Press in fiscal year 1980, totaled 262 compared with 240 in 
fiscal year 1979. Of the 1980 titles, 100 were trade books, series 



278 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



publications, exhibition catalogs and checklists, annual reports, 
and other books (compared to 97 in these categories in 1979). The 
remainder were booklets, brochures, folders, and invitations — all, 
however, requiring editorial, design, and production services by 
Smithsonian Institution Press staff. 

The quality of books edited, designed, and produced by Smith- 
sonian Institution Press staff continued as in past years to be 
recognized by awards won in national and local competitions. Arts 
in America was a finalist in the Reference Books category of the 
American Book Awards competition. The Catalogue of the Hans 
Syz Collection was chosen for exhibit among the 33 books selected 
from 273 entries by the Association of American University Presses 
(aaup), and also by the American Institute of Graphic Arts for 
their exhibit Graphic Design USA. Natural Man Observed was a 
second Smithsonian Institution Press selection in the aaup's 33- 
book exhibit. Capital Losses and Perceptions and Evocations won 
first and second places in the annual National Association of 
Government Communicators' Blue Pencil Awards. Mary Cassatt 
and Fernando Botero were selected by the Art Directors Club of 
Metropolitan Washington for exhibit in their thirty-first annual 
show. 

Most of the Press's financial success during the year resulted 
from continued sales of The Smithsonian Collection of Newspaper 
Comics, copublished in 1978 by the Smithsonian Institution Press 
and Harry N. Abrams, Inc., and from The National Air and Space 
Museum, published by Abrams but codistributed by the Press 
under a special agreement. Other cooperative arrangements worked 
out by the Smithsonian Institution Press during the year included 
an agreement with the British Museum to act as United States 
distributor for the Fossil Hominids series, and agreements with the 
following United States and overseas publishers for copublishing 
for book club or overseas distribution of Smithsonian Institution 
Press books: Oxford University Press and Macmillan's Birding 
Book Club (The Great Gray Owl), the Military History Book Club 
and Jane's Publishing Company (Messerschmitt Me 262), and Harry 
N. Abrams, Inc. (History of Turkish Art). 

Finally, the Smithsonian Institution Press director and staff un- 
dertook special efforts to improve contacts both within the Smith- 
sonian Institution and outside. By agreement with Smithsonian 



Public Service I 279 




At the helm of the Smithsonian Institution Press, scholarly and trade book 
publishing arm of the Institution, are Ted Rivinus (left), director emeritus, and 
Felix C. Lowe, director, shown holding copies of recent sip publications. 



Institution bureaux, editorial advisory committees have been set 
up to assist the Press in acquisition and review of manuscripts 
relating to air and space, art and art history, and natural history. 
Smithsonian Institution Press representatives conducted informa- 
tion sessions with several Smithsonian Institution bureaux, in- 
cluding the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama, 
and the director spent a valuable week in London bringing Smith- 
sonian Institution Press books and book prospects to the attention 
of overseas agents and potential copublishers. 

In short, fiscal year 1980 has been a year of both growth and 
recognition of the Smithsonian Institution Press as the profes- 
sionally competent scholarly and trade book publishing arm of the 
Smithsonian Institution. 



280 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Smithsonian Magazine 

During its tenth anniversary year, the magazine produced a record 
number of editorial pages, primarily focused on subject areas of 
interest to the Institution. The aim has been to cover important 
developments in the arts, the sciences, and scholarship, and at the 
same time to cover interesting subjects not apt to be reported upon 
in other general magazines. 

The activities of the Institution were addressed on a regular basis 
in Secretary Ripley's "View from the Castle" column, in Edwards 
Park's "Around the Mall" column, and in the Smithsonian High- 
lights section. During the latter months of the year each High- 
lights section included, in addition to its regular announcements, a 
small feature on a particular exhibition. 

There were also major feature stories on important Smithsonian 
exhibitions, including the Miro show at the Hirshhorn, as well as on 
parts of the Institution itself: for example, the Dibner Library and 
the Front Royal Conservation and Research Center. A number of 
Smithsonian authors were represented, including Joshua Taylor 
(ncfa) and F. R. Harnden, Jr. (Astrophysical Observatory). Edward 
Thompson's 1979 trip to China resulted in two cover stories during 
the last year — on the buried army of the Emperor of Qin, and on 
the arts of the Chinese Bronze Age. 

Energy and the environment were important focal points. There 
were articles on current oil-spill research, offshore oil exploration, 
the synfuels controversy in the West, and the country's first solar 
village. Major environmental stories included those on the future 
of the Adirondack Park and, in recognition of the year 1980's 
designation as The Year of the Coast, on the dangers of develop- 
ment on the nation's barrier islands. 

The natural and physical sciences received attention in every 
issue. Story subjects included the discovery of perennial corn, new 
challenges to Einstein's theories, the re-emergence of the carp as a 
useful and admired fish, the return to Jordan of the Arabian oryx, 
current research in biofeedback, the satellites of Jupiter and 
Saturn, and the rare lion macaques of India. Of particular note 
were stories on research in the rain forest canopy, on sociobiology, 
and on new theories of human evolution. While Smithsonian is not 
a news magazine, its coverage of the Mount Saint Helens eruption 



Public Service I 281 



demonstrated that the magazine has flexibility to respond to break- 
ing events when necessary. The magazine also continued its prac- 
tice of looking periodically at major institutions of government, 
with examinations of the TVA and the Library of Congress, both in 
periods of change as they respond to new mandates. 

Coverage of the arts included stories on exhibitions of the works 
of John Singer Sargent, Picasso, Jasper Cropsey, the Post-Impres- 
sionists, and Edward Hopper; there were also articles on the Corn- 
ing Museum of Glass, the Whitney Museum's fiftieth anniversary, 
the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, and the restoration of 
Monet's home at Giverny. History was represented with major 
stories on the Mexican Revolution, the fifteen-hundredth anniver- 
sary of Saint Benedict, trans-Atlantic aviators Alcock and Brown, 
and the international conference on the Russian sale of Alaska to 
the United States. 

The magazine as a business continued to do well. Circulation now 
approaches 1,900,000 and advertising pages totaled 1007 (compared 
to 855 in fiscal year 1979). The circulation is truly coast-to-coast: 
California, the most populous state, has the greatest number of 
Associates, 242,000. In April National Associate membership 
dues were increased to $14 having been held at $12 since August 
1976. As in previous years — and in spite of double-digit inflation — 
the magazine made a substantial contribution to the unrestricted 
trust funds of the Institution. 



Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center 

Refining and expanding its public service activities during fiscal 
year 1980, the Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center 
(viarc) continued to function as the central point of contact for a 
wide variety of information and assistance programs. Serving the 
general public, Associate members, and Smithsonian staff, viarc 
programs operate seven days a week and involve the coordination 
of large numbers of volunteers in many of its activities. 

Major service units include Seven-Day Information Services, the 
Public Inquiry Mail Service, and Staff/Volunteer Services. As the 
parent program and nucleus of all Seven-Day Information Serv- 



282 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



ices, the Information Specialist Program currently utilizes the 
talents of some four hundred volunteers to provide visitor assist- 
ance at thirteen information desks located in most National Mall 
museums and the Renwick Gallery. On the eve of the program's 
tenth year of operation, Mr. William Grayson, the program's first 
director, was the honored guest at the annual holiday awards event. 
In fiscal year 1980, weekday and weekend Information Specialists 
together staffed desks at all times, achieving 88 percent of maxi- 
mum desk coverage. During the year, supplemental training for 
Information Specialists included two major enrichment opportuni- 
ties: the first, an introduction to a new gallery, "Early Flight," at 
the National Air and Space Museum; and the second, a sampling 
of exhibits and educational programs offered at the newest Smith- 
sonian museum, the Museum of African Art. 

Over and above their weekly commitment of information serv- 
ice hours, eighty-three Information Specialists gave hundreds of 
hours to assist the Communications and Transportation Services 
Division during the Institution-wide changeover to the Centrex 
telephone system. In another extraordinary effort, sixty-three In- 
formation Specialists conducted more than one thousand visitor 
interviews as part of a major study initiated by viarc to determine 
the need for auxiliary transportation between National Mall mu- 
seums for visitors with ambulatory difficulties. Not only was the 
need for intermuseum transportation confirmed, but much valu- 
able secondary data was gained. The study, funded by a 1979 
Smithson Society grant, was conceived and executed by graduate 
students in the Department of Urban and Regional Planning of 
George Washington University. 

Three additional programs complete the Seven-Day Information 
Services unit: the Telephone Information Program provides a cen- 
tral source of daily "live" telephone information about the Smith- 
sonian and its activities. The changeover to the Centrex system 
made possible the addition of needed incoming lines and facilitated 
response to hundreds of thousands of telephone inquiries. Service 
to disabled visitors was improved with the installation of a tele- 
communication device for the deaf (tdd). Further service improve- 
ments are anticipated in 1981 with the installation of a Continuous 
Traffic Study system to be monitored by the Chesapeake & Potomac 
Telephone Company. 



Public Service I 283 



The Group Orientation Program completed its first full year of 
operation in June 1980. Some 10,000 Smithsonian visitors, arriving 
in organized groups, were able to make informed choices on the 
use of their limited time at the Smithsonian after attending the 
30-minute slide/lecture orientation provided by specially trained 
volunteers. Groups served ranged from Hubert Humphrey Fellows 
to Smithsonian Associate members to Campfire Girls. In response 
to a request from the Office of Personnel Administration, the group 
orientation presentation was adapted to provide new Smithsonian 
employees with an overview of the full scope of the Institution's 
activities. Videotapes of volunteer presentations made by the Office 
of Telecommunications proved a useful tool in program evaluation. 
The most serious program obstacle anticipated for fiscal year 1981 
is the severe shortage of suitable meeting spaces in National Mall 
museums. 

The Castle Docent Program offered a record 174 tours of the his- 
toric Smithsonian Institution Building for some 2,500 participants 
in National Associate "Washington Anytime Weekends," "Smith- 
sonian Sampler Weekends," and Selected Studies seminars. The in- 
creasing requests for tours required a 50 percent increase in this 
docent corps. 

The publication of Office Memorandum 809 in July 1980 docu- 
mented for the first time the Institution's policy on public inquiry 
mail and the role of viarc's second major program unit, the Public 
Inquiry Mail Service (pims). As the central research, response, and/ 
or referral point charged with attending to the Institution's public 
inquiries, this office is involved in the production of a wide variety 
of printed informational materials. Mail volume currently exceeds 
30,000 letters annually. 

Practical steps taken to respond efficiently to this large volume 
of mail include the following: collaborating with museum divisions 
to create and/or update and expand a variety of preprinted ma- 
terials, such as fact sheets, bibliographies, and leaflets on popular 
topics; utilization of volunteer assistance on an individual basis in 
museum divisions or departments to aid in the associated research, 
writing, and editing called for; publication of a booklet, Planning 
Your Smithsonian Visit, with an expanded edition for Associates, 
which answers the most frequent questions of prospective museum 



284 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



visitors; and using a new computer program to record mail statis- 
tics and trends as well as to pinpoint areas of popular interest. 

Acting in an advisory capacity, pims aids Smithsonian Auxiliary 
Activities units by compiling and circulating a listing of Smithsonian 
sale products to members of the Smithsonian Business Council, by 
participating in council meetings and activities, and by providing 
mail referral assistance. 

Activities of viarc's third major program area, Staff/Volunteer 
Services, were highlighted by a number of "firsts." The Independent 
Volunteer Placement Services' (ivps) system for identifying and 
registering volunteers working behind the scenes provided the data 
base which enabled the program to sponsor the first social event 
to recognize the collective contribution made to the Institution by 
the hundreds of volunteers working in this capacity. The September 
reception paid tribute to 450 volunteers whose work with the pro- 
fessional staff in fiscal year 1980 reflected nearly 100,000 hours of 
project assistance. Approximately 50 percent of these volunteers 
were interviewed and placed through the ivps. 

Another precedent was set when, in response to staff requests, 
groups of volunteers were recruited to satisfy a variety of special 
needs. One such request involved staffing the Employment In- 
formation Office in the Office of Personnel Administration. 
Guidance and support were also provided to the Mt. Hopkins Ob- 
servatory for the organization of their first corps of office volun- 
teers. A computer program was instituted to maintain pertinent 
statistical and assignment data on the growing number of volunteers 
working in nonpublic areas. Research was begun on a publication 
to document the history and tradition of Smithsonian voluntarism 
and to outline the current structure of volunteer programs at the 
Institution. 

Also administered through this service, the Special Magazine 
Files fulfilled four thousand National Associate memberships for 
Smithsonian employees and eligible volunteers. Computer systems 
for this membership file were updated and the Smithsonian maga- 
zine's courtesy mailing list absorbed. 



Public Service I 285 



Smithsonian Year • 1980 
ADMINISTRATION 



JOHN F. JAMESON, 
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR ADMINISTRATION 



Administrative and Support Activities 

During the year continued attention was given to the five-year 
planning and budgeting process, inaugurated last year, as well as 
other steps contributing to an orderly but flexible approach to ad- 
ministrative support to the Institution's programs and activities. 
Particular emphasis was placed upon equal employment oppor- 
tunity, implementation of the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, 
improving facilities management, and further efforts toward energy 
conservation. In addition, a new dimension to public information 
programs was added this year with the advent of the Smithsonian 
News Service. 

The Institution's five-year planning effort, as reported last year, 
resulted in the first Five- Year Prospectus, for fiscal years 1980—84. 
This process has proven its worth and has strengthened the Smith- 
sonian's approach to identification and development of future plans 
and objectives. The second Five-Year Prospectus, for 1981—85, was 
approved by the Board of Regents at its January 28, 1980, meeting 
and was subsequently made available to the Office of Management 
and Budget, the Congress, and others. The third edition of the 
Prospectus, for 1982—86, was reviewed by the Board of Regents 
at its September 22, 1980, meeting. Annual revisions to the Pros- 
pectus provide the means to reflect changing goals, to identify 
sources of funding required, and to communicate the Institution's 
aspirations to all parties involved in its management and oversight, 
as well as to the general public. 

Equalizing opportunities for employment continues as a goal of 
major importance to the Institution. With the support of Smith- 
sonian senior management, the Office of Equal Opportunity's 



286 



emphasis on affirmative action this year has yielded several signifi- 
cant accomplishments, all of which are designed to enhance the 
hiring of minorities and women and to reduce or eliminate their 
underrepresentation. Equal opportunity training for executive staff 
and other supervisors provided an understanding of the legal basis 
and process involved in operating an effective affirmative action 
program. The further development of affirmative action plans 
provided an analysis of Smithsonian occupations and a basis for 
hiring goals in four occupations — museum curator, museum tech- 
nician, visual information specialist, and zoologist. The establish- 
ment of the Federal Equal Opportunity Recruitment Program 
(feorp), in conjunction with the Office of Personnel Administration, 
provides a systematic means for the recruitment and selection of 
minorities and women. The first students in the Cooperative Educa- 
tion Program arrived in September 1980 for work-study tours in 
various museums and other bureaux. The office also continues to 
oversee efforts to make programs and activities accessible for handi- 
capped visitors, in addition to an affirmative action program for the 
handicapped. Guidelines for program access by visitors have been 
developed and timetables for full accessibility are being planned. 
For 1981, the International Year of Disabled Persons, the Institution 
will participate in programs for the year planned to promote an 
awareness and understanding of people who are handicapped. 

Substantial progress was made in meeting provisions of the Civil 
Service Reform Act, which continues as a major activity of the 
Office of Personnel Administration, along with the strengthening of 
recruitment and hiring of women, minorities, and disabled persons. 
Performance appraisal and merit pay plans required by the act are 
well under way, with full implementation expected before the im- 
posed deadline of October 1981. New and comprehensive guidelines 
for the trust fund employees of the Institution have been developed 
and will be issued at the beginning of the next fiscal year. An Ex- 
ecutive Resources Board was established this year for the develop- 
ment of senior managers, and the Office of Personnel Administra- 
tion has formed a training branch to manage greater attention to 
this area. Other accomplishments include further development of an 
integrated personnel and payroll system in conjunction with ac- 
counting and computer services staff, which will lead to an effective, 
automated system. 



Administration I 287 



The formation of the Office of Facilities Services, as noted last 
year, has contributed significantly to the oversight and management 
of construction projects as well as protection, health, safety, archi- 
tectural, and plant services. The activities of this office contributed 
to the substantial progress made on the development of the Museum 
Support Center and also Quadrangle planning for the area behind 
the Smithsonian Institution Building. 

Energy conservation remains as an important objective. The In- 
stitution's program, administered through the Office of Plant Serv- 
ices, coupled with the efforts of a panel of museum and other staff, 
has improved the monitoring and control of Smithsonian energy 
consumption, resulting in a cost avoidance of nearly $600,000 dur- 
ing the year. Further development of a master plan for building 
heating and other systems will contribute to this effort. A measure 
of the Institution's success is that the use of steam and electricity 
is expected to remain relatively constant through fiscal year 1982 
despite weather variations, number of visitors, and the addition of 
new facilities. Since fiscal year 1978, the Smithsonian has avoided 
an estimated $1.5 million in utilities costs as a result of the con- 
servation steps undertaken. 

Other highlights include further efforts to bring the security 
force under the Office of Protection Services up to strength and to 
improve health programs for visitors and staff. In the Office of 
Design and Construction (formerly the Office of Facilities Planning 
and Engineering Services), major work included the Museum Sup- 
port Center and also the Quadrangle project as well as construction 
of support buildings for the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environ- 
mental Studies and for the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa- 
tory's facilities in Arizona. Work continued on building entrances 
and other areas to improve access for the handicapped and on a 
wide range of other repair, renovation, and improvement projects. 

New procurement policies for the Institution's auxiliary activities 
have enhanced their financial management and clarified the role of 
the Office of Supply Services. The Office of Computer Services 
continued provision of major support to the inventory of the na- 
tional collections. Other significant projects included development 
of an on-line Animal Food Management Program for the National 
Zoological Park which will be expanded to include nutritional in- 
formation. An automated registration system for events was formed 



288 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



for the National Associate Regional Events Program, and the first 
phase of a program was established for exhibitions circulated by 
the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service to assist in the 
scheduling, booking, and monitoring of shows on tour. Photographic 
and printing services are progessing with steps that include im- 
proved supervision of photographic operations, cataloguing of 
negative holdings, and conversion of nitrate negatives to safety 
film. 

As an outgrowth of existing public programs to reach people who 
do not come to the Smithsonian, the Office of Public Affairs, under 
the Coordinator of Public Information, launched a free, monthly 
feature story service in October 1979 — the Smithsonian News 
Service. The service distributes stories, often with photographs and 
illustrations, on results of Smithsonian research and education pro- 
grams; stories range from coral reef research to women aviators. 
The service is used by well over 1,400 newspapers, having a total 
combined circulation of forty million and a readership of ninety 
million people. 



Financial Management Activities 

Improvement of accounting and reporting systems continued as a 
high priority during the past year. Development of an integrated 
personnel/payroll system was begun, and a new procurement/ 
payable information system entered the initial implementation 
stage. Emphasis was placed on reducing the number of funds to 
provide more efficient funds control. In addition, a complete review 
of all endowment funds was undertaken to ensure correct classifi- 
cation and use. Efforts to improve cash flow have resulted in more 
timely deposits of cash receipts and more efficient payment cycling, 
thereby enabling a reduction in early payments and an increase in 
cash discounts. A substantial contribution to the effective manage- 
ment of the business affairs of both central and bureau revenue- 
producing activities was realized with the issuance of the first two 
chapters of a financial management handbook for the auxiliary 
activities. 

Risk management studies that identify and analyze the potential 
for financial loss were conducted in the following areas: preserva- 



Administration I 289 



tion and protection of color transparencies used in our publishing 
operations, transportation of sold goods, liabilities arising out of 
radio programming and record publishing activities, retail sales to 
the public, and museum checkroom responsibilities. Consolidation 
of property insurance exposures into one contract has resulted in 
significant savings to the Institution. 

Despite unfavorable economic conditions and reduced museum 
attendance, sales through the museum shops and mail order 
catalogues recorded an impressive increase of 18 percent over-all. 
A major factor in this growth continues to be the pleasing and 
distinctive museum shop displays, which this past year won eight 
awards in the International Display Competition sponsored by 
Visual Merchandising magazine. In addition, a summer catalogue 
initiated this past year on a trial basis met with exceptional success. 
Major emphasis was continued on insuring the relatedness to 
Smithsonian collections and activities of all products sold in the 
shops or through the catalogues. 

With the inauguration of paid parking for Smithsonian em- 
ployees, a new operation was established under the Business 
Management Office to manage the parking program. Administra- 
tion of this program includes not only all employee parking but 
also the public garage located under the National Air and Space 
Museum which was formerly operated under a concession arrange- 
ment. 

The Belmont Conference Center, which since 1967 has served as 
a setting for small conferences generally of a scholarly, nonprofit, 
or governmental nature, has continued to require an operating 
subsidy despite increased usage and stringent budgeting. With the 
approval of the Board of Regents, sale of this property to a suitable 
buyer is being pursued. 



Smithsonian Institution Women's Council Activities 

Entering its second year, during the 1980-81 term, the Smith- 
sonian Institution Women's Council (siwc) sponsored a training 
session for all employees, focusing on career development, siwc also 
participated in two training days to improve its contributions to 



290 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Smithsonian employees and to set goals for 1980-81. As a result, 
siwc now publishes a bimonthly newsletter to keep the staff 
abreast of noteworthy issues and programs. A child-care task 
force has surveyed all employees and is preparing a feasibility 
study for the creation of a self-supporting Smithsonian-sponsored 
child-care facility. To assist the Institution in placing women in 
key positions, the council presents the names of prominent women 
qualified for various positions as these become available. During 
the year the council also hosted a Smithsonian Day for the National 
Conference of Federally Employed Women, and several members 
of the council participated in national conferences held in Wash- 
ington which addressed work-related topics. / At the beginning 
of 1980, siwc sponsored a reception to pay tribute to Mrs. Dorothy 
Rosenberg upon her retirement, after thirty years of federal service, 
twenty-one of them at the Smithsonian. 



Administration I 291 



MP 



w 




3^r 

wk. 



■ m '' 



k 




On a Smithsonian National Associate study voyage through Scandinavia, tour mem- 
bers saw at close range part of Jostedal Glacier, near Olden, Norway. 



Smithsonian Year • 1980 



MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT 



JAMES MCK. SYMINGTON, 
DIRECTOR 



Office of Development 

The principal efforts of the office have been directed toward the 
Quadrangle development, a major construction project incorporat- 
ing a new home for the Museum of African Art, a center for 
Eastern art, a classroom complex and offices for the Associate 
programs, office and exhibition space for the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Traveling Exhibition Service, and the Smithsonian Rare Book 
Library. The project, to be situated south of the Castle building on 
the National Mall, will cost approximately $50 million when com- 
pleted in 1985. Funding is being sought from both public and 
private sources, including foreign governments and corporations, 
United States corporations and foundations, and congressional ap- 
propriations. In 1980, the government of Japan, through the Japan 
Foundation, made a very generous contribution of $1,000,000 for 
the center for Eastern art. 

Another new area of concentration has been the program of 
deferred gifts from individuals, through the Pooled-Income Fund. 
The office has continued to assist Smithsonian bureaux in securing 
private funding for exhibitions, research, education and other public 
programs, and publications. This year approximately fifty projects 
for eighteen of the museums and other bureaux of the Institution 
were presented to corporations, foundations, and individuals. 



National Board of the Smithsonian Associates 

Under the leadership of Chairman William S. Anderson, board 
chairman of NCR Corporation, the board has accepted the major 



293 



responsibility of a capital campaign for the Quadrangle project 
among United States corporations, to match contributions being 
sought from foreign businesses for the center for Eastern art. This 
is the first campaign of this magnitude ever attempted by the board 
and follows its successful efforts to establish the James Smithson 
Society during the past four years. 

New members elected in 1980 include John F. Harrigan; Mrs. 
Henry L. Hillman; Samuel C. Johnson; Seymour H. Knox III; 
H. Smith Richardson, Jr.; Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr.; Parke Wright. 
Board meetings occurred in Washington in the autumn of 1979 
and in Seattle in the spring of 1980. 



Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates 

After unanticipated delays, bids have been accepted by the Smith- 
sonian for construction of a sense-aware horticultural area, or 
Sensory Garden, between the Hirshhorn Museum and the Arts and 
Industries Building. Major funding for this project was obtained 
through the efforts of the Women's Committee. The committee 
also gave financial assistance to a number of Smithsonian activities, 
including the following: public programs organized for the exhibi- 
tion The American Renaissance at the National Collection of Fine 
Arts; the Visitor Information Center's publishing of a handbook 
for the Smithsonian volunteers; the National Museum of History 
and Technology's purchase of a collection of suffragette items; 
provision of projectors at the National Zoological Park; a special 
naturalization ceremony at the Division of Performing Arts' July 
Fourth celebration; the Museum of Natural History's Naturalist 
Center; the Hirshhorn Museum's "Hirshhorn Holiday"; the Ren- 
wick's lecture series on "Master Craftsmen"; and the Resident 
Associate Free Film Series. 



Smithsonian National Associate Program 

In Secretary Ripley's words, an Associate has "joined a special 
community . . . {and] become part of a rigorous educational and 



294 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



cultural force everywhere in the land." 1 This national dynamism 
was observed again and again in 1980 as Associates participated 
in activities planned for members and as the Institution continued 
to expand its commitment to public education and scholarship 
through membership programs. 

Since 1970 and the appearance of Smithsonian magazine, pro- 
grams have been developed that allow active participation in the 
life of the Smithsonian without regard to geographical location. 
The National Associate Program includes: Contributing Member- 
ship, Regional Events, Selected Studies, and the Travel Program. 
These programs are dedicated to the propositions that learning 
should be an enjoyable lifelong pursuit for everyone and that the 
national museums and research organizations of the Smithsonian 
Institution can make a valuable contribution to this learning process. 

CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIP PROGRAM 

The 10,600 Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National 
Associate Program gave $870,000 in unrestricted funds during 
fiscal year 1980. Members continued to reaffirm their special com- 
mitment to the Smithsonian by renewing at a rate of 80 percent, 
thus insuring a dependable income for educational and research 
projects. 

The levels of annual support offered to Smithsonian Associates 
are: Supporting ($50); Donor ($100); Sponsoring ($250); Sustain- 
ing ($500); and James Smithson Society ($1,000 and above). 

The Contributing Membership Program sponsored eleven special 
events including the Portrait Ball in the National Portrait Gallery's 
Great Hall; a formal opening reception for The Decade of Discovery 
exhibition at the Freer Gallery; and private film viewings of The 
Louvre Museum and The Hakone Open-Air Museum, in cosponsor- 
ship with the French and Japanese embassies and the Fuji-Sanko 
Group. Sponsoring Members ($250) had the rare opportunity of 
touring the Dibner Library with Dr. Bern Dibner, donor of the 
collection. 

The Smithson Society reached a total membership of 341 in 1980, 
with 166 Annual and 175 Life members. In four years, the Annual 

1 Smithsonian, September 1976, page 6. 



Membership and Development I 295 



members have given more than half a million dollars in unre- 
stricted contributions to the Institution. Some $200,000 of this sum 
was contributed in 1980 and has made possible five acquisitions 
and three special projects. The Freer Gallery of Art acquired a 
fifteenth-century wooden drum core of the Muromachi period; the 
Museum of African Art purchased a Tikar Bangwa ancestor figure; 
the National Air and Space Museum added Bader Bail-Out by 
Frank Wooten to its collection of paintings; the Cooper-Hewitt 
Museum acquired an important silver salver by Dorothy Grant 
(seventeenth century); and the National Portrait Gallery bought a 
self-portrait by Samuel F. B. Morse (ca. 1814). An exhibition on the 
startling biological discoveries in the Galapagos was funded at 
the National Museum of Natural History, as well as performances 
of the Little Theatre of the Deaf at the Division of Performing Arts 
to coincide with the International Year of Disabled Persons. Finally, 
the sum of $40,000 was pledged toward the Quadrangle project. 
The fifty-five new Life members contributed more than $5 
million in objects for the Smithsonian collections and in monetary 
gifts in 1980. Acquisitions included gems and minerals, sculpture 
and paintings, prints and drawings, examples of the decorative 
arts, machinery and medical artifacts, papers relating to United 
States business and engineering history, among others; particu- 
larly notable was the Vincent Melzac collection of American art 
acquired by the National Collection of Fine Arts. Nine Life members 
made second gifts to the Institution in 1980. In all, Life members 
have given objects valued at more than $20 million since 1977. The 
Smithsonian Institution acknowledges with gratitude the generous 
support of the members of the James Smithson Society and the 
Contributing Membership Program, whose names are given in the 
appendix. 

Contributing Members living outside of the Washington area 
received advance information and complimentary tickets to offer- 
ings of the Regional Events Program in seven major cities through- 
out the United States. 

REGIONAL EVENTS PROGRAM 

New educational topics, collaborative programming, expanded mem- 
bership services, and enhanced public awareness highlighted the 
Regional Events Program in 1980. More than 90,000 Associates 



296 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



and 80,000 members of fifty-six cosponsoring organizations were 
invited to attend 162 events in this year's host cities: Miami, West 
Palm Beach, San Antonio, Des Moines, Grand Rapids, Saint Louis, 
Anchorage, Fairbanks, and Honolulu. 

Lectures, seminars, and family events offered for the first time 
included "Enduring Images: Three Centuries of American Portrai- 
ture," by Marvin Sadik (npg), "America's New Women," by 
Margaret Christman (npg), "Behind the Scenes at the National Air 
and Space Museum," by Melvin Zisfein (nasm), "The Search for 
Extraterrestrial Intelligence," by Kerry Joels (nasm), and "Monu- 
mental Sculpture," by Edward Lawson (hmsg). Paul Desautels 
(nmnh) lectured on "Gold: The Everlasting Metal," and joined 
James Buckler (Office of Horticulture) for a dialogue on their recent 
orchid-collecting expedition to Panama. Seminars on gem collect- 
ing, the art of biographical writing, and the connoisseurship of 
miniatures provided members with small-group, in-depth educa- 
tional experiences. 

The Regional Events Program collaborated with cosponsors in 
host cities to develop programs specifically tailored to local in- 
terests. The events in Alaska featured presentations by William 
Fitzhugh (nmnh) on the Smithsonian's early explorations in the 
Far North and by Henry Collins (nmnh) on his landmark archeo- 
logical excavations on Saint Lawrence Island, 1928-36. Margery 
Gordon (ncfa) introduced families to native Alaskan art through 
improvisational drama and construction techniques, and Richard 
Fiske (nmnh) lectured on plate tectonics in Alaska and Hawaii, 
emphasizing the volcanic origins of the forty-ninth and fiftieth 
states. The return trip to Hawaii, held in conjunction with the East- 
West Center's twentieth anniversary year, also featured photo- 
graphic field trips by Kjell Sandved (nmnh) which emphasized tech- 
niques for photographing the Islands' rich flora. 

Cosponsors enhanced the Smithsonian events in a variety of 
ways. The Grand Rapids Public Museum offered preview tours 
of a new exhibition on the prehistory of the Grand Valley follow- 
ing Bruce Smith's (nmnh) lecture on "Temple Mound Builders." 
Cosponsoring organizations in Miami and Saint Louis organized 
behind-the-scenes tours of their facilities in conjunction with 
Smithsonian events. The Historical Association of Southern Florida 
supplemented a Smithsonian-sponsored day-long professional 



Membership and Development I 297 



seminar with sessions on traveling exhibitions, collections manage- 
ment, and restoration. Participation in the professional seminars 
drew more than two hundred museum personnel from throughout 
the states of Texas and Florida. 

Membership services were upgraded by the introduction of 
computerized ticket processing in Washington, D.C. A toll-free 
number, also installed in 1980, enabled members to call Washing- 
ton directly with questions regarding programs and ticket requests. 
Special invitational packets, including complimentary tickets to all 
lectures, were mailed to Contributing Members in 1980 host cities 
as well as special friends of the Smithsonian and cosponsoring 
organizations. In addition, information packets for participants 
planning visits to the Smithsonian were sent to more than 900 
Associates and local members with the help of the Associates' 
Reception Center. Acknowledging the need for services for the 
handicapped, the Regional Events Program offered oral and Ameri- 
can sign language interpretation to hearing-impaired participants. 

Public awareness of the Smithsonian programs in host com- 
munities and of the Institution's wide-ranging research activities 
was heightened through the expanded range of cosponsoring orga- 
nizations, through events in cities with lower population densities, 
and through more extensive media coverage. The basis for par- 
ticipation was broadened by extending opportunities beyond mu- 
seums to state and local agencies, including the State Library 
Commission of Iowa, the Saint Louis County Department of Parks 
and Recreation, and the Dade County Council of Arts and Sciences 
in Florida. Programs once limited to major metropolitan areas were 
offered in less populated cities with an experimental concurrent 
event series in Miami and West Palm Beach. 

Intensified public relations efforts yielded forty-three major news 
articles highlighting the events series, including many on-site re- 
views of lectures, seminars, and workshops. Smithsonian lectures 
also appeared on thirty live prime-time radio and television talk 
shows. Representatives of local host organizations appeared fre- 
quently with their Smithsonian guests, giving local organizations 
spotlight coverage of their own exhibitions and programs. The 
additional publicity brought many new faces into the museums 
from rarely touched segments of the public, and prompted a new 
interest in local museum membership. 



298 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



SELECTED STUDIES PROGRAM 
1980 was the Selected Studies Program's most extensive year of 
operation in its three-year history, with sixteen five-day seminars 
offered from October through June. Continuing to draw upon the 
collections and expert staff of the Smithsonian Institution, visiting 
scholars, and other scientific and cultural organizations in the 
Washington area, the programs combined illustrated lectures, films, 
behind-the-scenes tours, and field trips to offer Smithsonian Na- 
tional Associates comprehensive courses in a wide variety of topics. 

As a result of the large demand generated by previous years' 
offerings and the necessity of limiting enrollment in order to main- 
tain a personal, "seminar" atmosphere, many of the most popular 
subjects were repeated this year — including "Connoisseurship of 
American Antique Furniture, 1650-1840," "Genealogical Research: 
How To," "Historic House Preservation," "China: A Cultural His- 
tory," which greater numbers of Associates are taking in preparation 
for immediate trips to China, rather than for general interest, and 
"Historic Horticulture," which is conducted annually at the height 
of Washington's spring blooming. 

Several new programs were designed to complement special ex- 
hibitions, including "The Arts of Imperial Russia" in conjunction 
with the show of that same title in the Renwick Gallery in October. 
"The New Eden: American Painting in the Nineteenth Century" 
explored the masterpices of American artists in lectures and daily 
gallery tours in the numerous Washington art museums such as 
the National Gallery of Art, the National Collection of Fine Arts, 
the National Portrait Gallery, the Renwick Gallery, The Phillips 
Collection, and the Corcoran Gallery of Art. The special exhibition 
on luminism at the National Gallery of Art was an outstanding addi- 
tion to the week's studies. New information resulting from several 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration missions provided 
the latest updated material for "A Grand Tour of the Solar System" 
in March. 

Despite the greatly increased airfares, participants continued to 
show a wide geographical distribution with large numbers still 
coming from as far away as California and Texas. Nineteen eighty 
also witnessed a growing number of Selected Studies "repeaters" or 
"regulars," with many people who registered for two and three 
seminars and indicated their plans to attend on an annual basis. 



Membership and Development I 299 




A special tour on aircraft restoration at the Paul E. Garber Facility was part 
of the snap Selected Studies Program. Below. Sea lions were sighted on 
Fernandina Island in the Galapagos on a study tour sponsored by Associates 
Travel, Smithsonian National Associate Program. 




Fully one-third of the people registered for the "American Paint- 
ing" seminar in March had participated in "French Impressionist 
Painting" the previous spring. 

In addition to the monthly Selected Studies announcement in 
Smithsonian magazine, such specialized publications as Flying 
Magazine, AOPA Pilot, Sport Aviation, Antiques Magazine, An- 
tiques Monthly, Asia Mail, and Preservation News have begun to 
print frequent notices of these seminars. 

TRAVEL PROGRAM 

Nineteen eighty was a very successful year in spite of considerable 
upheaval in travel conditions stemming from inflation, fuel costs, and 
general uneasiness in the economy. The National Associate Travel 
Program continues to design and administer a variety of unique 
educational tours that mirror the interests and concerns of the 
Smithsonian Institution. All study tours departed as scheduled, al- 
though enrollment for some foreign tours was lower than originally 
projected. A wider range of destinations was offered in 1980. They 
included outdoor, wildlife oriented programs in the mountains of 
Chile and on the Galapagos Islands. Two-week residential pro- 
grams took place at Oxford University, Aigas Field Center in the 
Highlands of Scotland, and in Kyoto, lapan. 

On study voyages around the British Isles and to the Baltic 
countries, Associates learned of the influence of the sea on the 
historic and cultural development of these areas. On a third voyage, 
archeology of the Middle East was highlighted during a program 
which included visits to Egypt, Jordan, Israel, and Greece. Follow- 
ing an intensive predeparture program in San Francisco, nine study 
groups visited the People's Republic of China. Thirteen subsequent 
programs in different areas of China will provide Associates with 
exciting new study opportunities there. 

On the domestic scene, Associates took part in cultural programs 
in Asheville, Charleston, Savannah, New Orleans, and New York. 
Natural history studies were held in cooperation with the Newfound 
Harbor Marine Institute, the Tetons Science School, and Wilder- 
ness Southeast, while other programs were accompanied by Mu- 
seum of Natural History staff to study whales off Baja, coral reefs 
of the Virgin Islands, and geology in the Grand Canyon. 

The educational content of both the foreign and domestic study 



Membership and Development I 301 



tours is intensified by the study leader. Each trip is led by one or 
more Smithsonian or guest scholars as well as Smithsonian staff 
representatives. 

Associates from all parts of the country visited the nation's 
capital through the "Washington Anytime Weekend" program, 
executed in cooperation with the Visitor Information and Associates' 
Reception Center, or by taking part in the "Smithsonian Sampler 
Weekend" designed to present a sampling of the Institution's col- 
lections with lectures by curators and other museum staff. 

An automated data-processing system was installed during the 
year which enables the collection of names and addresses of Asso- 
ciates who have requested material, and the recording of inquiries 
by tour. The program is currently expanding to allow trip registra- 
tion, invoicing, and mail addresses to be handled through the com- 
puter terminal. 



Smithsonian Resident Associate Program 

The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program, the private, self- 
supporting membership and continuing education arm of the Smith- 
sonian Institution for Metropolitan Washington, D.C., is considered 
a model for museum membership and education programs both 
nationally and internationally. Established in 1965 by Secretary 
Ripley to provide opportunities for those who live in the Washing- 
ton area to participate actively in the life of the Smithsonian, the 
program offers a broad range of quality educational activities that 
complement and enhance the exhibitions, collections, and research 
of the Institution. 

Resident Associates are drawn from the entire spectrum of the 
greater Washington community. Membership has grown from 8,000 
with a retention rate of 50 percent in 1972 to over 60,000 and a re- 
tention rate of 80 percent in 1980, representing more than 130,000 
persons in the greater Washington area. The dues of these single, 
double, and family members amounted to $1,290,400 in fiscal year 
1980. During the year the program offered 917 activities, attended 
by 150,721 individuals, a 15 percent increase in participation over 
the previous year. 



302 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES 
The Resident Associate Program was selected by the National En- 
dowment for the Arts / National Endowment for the Humanities 
for the third consecutive year to serve as one of the national 
sponsors of an international symposium. The fourth in an ongoing 
series, Belgium Today marked the commemoration of the 150th 
anniversary of Belgian independence and was made possible by 
grants from the two endowments, with the cooperation of the 
government of Belgium, and outside funding. His Majesty King 
Baudouin I of the Belgians and Queen Fabiola opened the sym- 
posium in Washington in April 1980. The next international sym- 
posium, Egypt Today, is in the planning stage, scheduled for spring 
1981, and the Resident Associate Program staff is already at work 
on this project, again as one of three national sponsors. For these 
international symposia, the program receives financial grants from 
external sources. 

CIVIC COMMITMENT AND CONSORTIA 

The Resident Associate Program has become a cultural force in the 
life of the Washington community and the country at large. The 
program regularly initiates or cosponsors with local and national 
institutions activities that address important current issues and are 
open to the public as well as members. 

This year, through a grant from the National Science Founda- 
tion's Public Understanding of Science Program — the fourth in four 
years — the Resident Associate Program cosponsored with the Uni- 
versity of the District of Columbia "Future Power," a seven-week 
series of free public lectures by nationally known energy experts, 
keynoted by Harvard's Daniel Yergin, coeditor of the best-selling 
Energy Future. The series considered the problems and possibilities 
of the nation's energy alternatives. 

In cooperation with the National Trust for Historic Preservation, 
the program presented an all-day symposium, Preservation: Reusing 
America's Energy, that examined how preservation of the built en- 
vironment saves energy. Through a grant from the German 
Marshall Fund, the program cosponsored with Partners for Livable 
Places a symposium that considered how America can learn from 
Europe in the field of design and management of public spaces. In 
conjunction with the Washington Metropolitan Chapter of the 



Membership and Development I 303 



i 






y 




] 




King Baudouin I of the Belgians delivered the keynote address opening the 
Belgium Today symposium sponsored in part by the Smithsonian Resident 
Associate Program with support from the National Endowment for the Arts 
and the National Endowment for the Humanities, among others. Chief repre- 
sentatives of sponsoring groups are shown here, along with a capacity audi- 
ence. Below. Hollywood costume designer Edith Head (with dark glasses) posed 
with models wearing her historic creations in a fashion show for the Resident 
Associate course "Beyond Fashion: Costumes for Stage and Life." 




American Institute of Architects, the program presented a lecture 
by world class architect Arthur Erickson of Canada, and a series 
of lectures by key Austrian architects on Viennese architecture. 
The popular Audubon lecture series, cosponsored with the Audubon 
Naturalist Society and the Friends of the National Zoo for the 
seventh consecutive year, focused on endangered wildlife — from 
the whale to the whooping crane. 

Two graphic design courses, taught by leaders in the field, were 
cosponsored with the Art Directors Club of Metropolitan Washing- 
ton. In observance of Black History Month (February), the program 
presented a series of landmark films produced by and about blacks 
over the past fifty years. As has been the practice of the program 
for the last eight years, tuition-free scholarships are awarded to 
inner-city young people and adults to attend courses of their choice. 
Through the D.C. Public School System, one hundred young peo- 
ple received tuition-free scholarships to Young Associate classes, 
and sixty-six scholarships were awarded to adults for Resident 
Associate courses. The program also extended eighty-three tuition- 
free scholarships for adult courses to gifted students attending the 
Ellington School for the Arts, the Gifted and Talented Program, 
and the School Without Walls. In addition, the program awarded 
seventy scholarships for adult courses to Smithsonian docents. 

The Resident Associate Program commissioned Washington 
artist Gene Davis to create a serigraph/poster series in his dazzling 
multicolor-stripe style, and offered the art works for sale, dis- 
counted to members. The project, an aesthetic and financial success, 
has generated funds for the Institution, and some of the proceeds 
will benefit the Smithsonian's Sensory Garden. 

The Smithsonian Associate, the program's monthly newsletter, 
won the 1980 Metropolitan Area Mass Media (mamm) award from 
the American Association of University Women for the best locally 
produced educational publication, the second such award in two 
years. 

SMITHSONIAN COOPERATION 

Throughout the year, the Resident Associate Program continued 
to work cooperatively with all of the Smithsonian museums and 
other bureaux on projects that heighten knowledge and apprecia- 
tion of exhibitions, curatorial research, and special activities. Mem- 



Membership and Development I 305 



ber openings were held in conjunction with the exhibitions After 
the Crash and Sculpture of the Federal Triangle at the National 
Collection of Fine Arts, and the Miro: Selected Paintings show at 
the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. To complement the 
Miro exhibition, the program presented a lecture about the artist 
by distinguished art critic Rosamond Bernier. The program co- 
sponsored two all-day seminars with the National Collection of 
Fine Arts on patronage during the American Renaissance and art 
in Washington during the nineteenth and early twentieth cen- 
turies. Museum directors Roger Kennedy of the National Museum 
of History and Technology, Marvin Sadik of the National Portrait 
Gallery, and Warren Robbins of the Museum of African Art 
lectured for the program during the year. In conjunction with the 
Museum of History and Technology's holiday celebrations at 
Christmas and July Fourth, the program presented two free films, 
each shown on four consecutive days and open to the public. At 
the initiative of the program, planning meetings continue to be held 
quarterly with key curators of Smithsonian museums and the pro- 
gramming staffs of the Resident Associate Program, the National 
Associate Program, and the Division of Performing Arts. The 
Smithsonian Associate newsletter provided a medium for the public 
announcements of the Smithsonian community — Smithsonian In- 
stitution Press books, National Air and Space Museum programs, 
Museum Shops products, Museum of Natural History films, and 
Division of Performing Arts activities. The Resident Associate 
membership list was lent regularly to many bureaux and divisions 
to publicize their activities and sell their products, with gratifying 
results. 

SPECIAL EVENTS: FILMS, SEMINARS, SYMPOSIA, 
LECTURES, PERFORMING ARTS 

Each month, between fifteen and twenty special events were sched- 
uled — lectures, films, performing arts, seminars, and symposia. 
Distinguished Smithsonian and guest lecturers discussed current 
cultural topics. Film series were held regularly to complement 
Smithsonian exhibitions and activities; brunch and outdoor con- 
certs are a regular feature. During fiscal year 1980, 204 such events 
took place, attended by 61,894 people, a 9.5 percent increase over 
fiscal year 1979. 



306 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Films 

Individual screenings of The Louvre Museum, produced by the 
Japanese Fuji Telecasting Company, Ltd., Koko, A Talking Gorilla, 
a documentary that records the ability of a gorilla to learn human 
sign language, and Nomads of the Deep on imax, with its spectacu- 
lar views of underwater life, were among the year's highlights. 
Series exploring American films of the Depression Era and the 
1950s, as well as recent and classic Belgian films, presented in 
conjunction with the Belgium Today celebration, were also shown 
to large audiences. All films are introduced by a scholar in the field. 
In fiscal year 1980, the Free Film Theater, a weekly series of docu- 
mentaries open to the public, was placed under the aegis of the 
Resident Associate Program. More than thirty-five films were 
offered during the year, October through June, attended by over 
10,000 people. 

Seminars and Symposia 

Intensive all-day seminars and symposia exploring such topics as 
the art and architecture of ancient Greece, the art of Daumier, the 
ufo mystery, and the art of the garden constituted an expanding 
component of the program. 

Lectures 

Science fiction writer Ray Bradbury, art critic Clement Greenberg, 
anthropologist Marvin Harris, author and historian Alfred Kazin, 
photographer Eliot Porter, and Bloomsbury biographer Quentin 
Bell were among the year's notable speakers. Members also heard 
lectures on the Post-Impressionists, Irish castles, Saturn and the 
Pioneer II probe, King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table, 
Van Gogh, and Picasso — all given by noted specialists. 

Performing Arts 

Winter brunch concerts are planned annually; this year pianist 
John Eaton's popular song series was scheduled twice during the 
year to meet demand. Summer outdoor concerts in the ncfa/npg 
courtyard featured outstanding local jazz, brass, and bluegrass 
groups. Special highlights of the year included the performance of 
Quarantine by Le Plan K, the internationally acclaimed Belgian 



Membership and Development I 307 



theater company; a concert by a Belgian brass quintet; and a per- 
formance by the Cairo Conservatoire Chamber Orchestra, presented 
in cooperation with the Embassy of Egypt. 

ADULT COURSES 

The Adult Courses Office offers a broad-ranged curriculum in the 
arts, sciences, and humanities that provides opportunities for 
serious study with distinguished Smithsonian and visiting experts. 
In fiscal year 1980 a program of "Courses at Noon" was instituted 
in addition to those regularly scheduled in the evenings. Owing to 
the inadequate classroom space available for noontime classes at 
the Institution, the program rented classroom sites in midtown 
centers around Dupont Circle for many of these courses. This new 
format contributed greatly to the increase of 21 percent in course 
enrollment over the previous year — 7,793 students attended the 173 
lecture courses offered in four terms. The best-attended courses, 
attracting as many as 350 persons, covered subjects as varied as the 
urban predicament, classical music, costume design, modern pho- 
tography, the art of the cartoon, graphic design, and the art of the 
Oriental rug. Outstanding lecturers included costume designer Edith 
Head, cartoonists George Booth and Edward Koren, and graphic 
designer Milton Glaser. 

STUDIO ARTS 

The objective of the studio arts component of the program is to en- 
gender an appreciation of age-old crafts by keeping alive hands-on 
techniques that are rapidly disappearing from our modern world. 
Drawing upon the rich resources of the Smithsonian museums, 
classes and workshops are frequently planned to complement ex- 
hibitions. Studio arts classes were offered four terms per year; in 
addition, a special September mini-term and intensive summer 
master workshops provided opportunities to focus on more nar- 
rowly defined studio experiences. Subjects explored in these 182 
programs, attended by 2,757 persons in fiscal year 1980, included 
Chinese calligraphy, marbling, bookbinding, weathervane making, 
furniture restoration, portrait drawing, and stained glass design. To 
improve facilities for photography courses, the Resident Associate 
photographic laboratory was modernized during the year. An en- 



308 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



larger, timer, and dry-mounting press were purchased and the print 
washing area was refurbished. 

TOURS 

On-site learning experiences are offered in art, architecture, arche- 
ology, history, and science at the Smithsonian and complementary 
cultural facilities. Ranging in length from one hour to two days, 
tours are geared to appeal to all age groups and interests. From an 
overnight excursion to visit magnificent mansions along the Hudson 
River to hour-long trips through Washington's Old Post Office, 273 
tours with 602 different sections were held during fiscal year 1980; 
32,277 persons participated in these tours, an increase of over 50 
percent from last year. During fiscal year 1980 there was a sub- 
stantial increase in one-day trips to locations over 200 miles from 
Washington. 

YOUNG ASSOCIATE AND FAMILY ACTIVITIES 

Through Young Associate and Family Activities, children ages 3 
to 15, alone or with their families, can further their enjoyment of 
the Smithsonian's vast resources. Programs specially tailored to 
their ages and interests include classes, workshops, monthly free 
films for families, tours, and performances that explore topics in 
history, art, sciences, and studio arts. During fiscal year 1980, a 
major emphasis was placed on increasing offerings for parent-child 
couples, enabling them to work cooperatively on gardening, birding, 
miniature dollhouse construction, magic, and super 8 mm movie- 
making. Special programming for youngsters three to five was 
initiated on Tuesdays, consisting of a morning art class and an 
afternoon parent-child class. In addition to two weeks of daily sum- 
mer classes, weekend courses and events were offered for the first 
time during June, July, and August, with enthusiastic attendance. 

VOLUNTEERS 

Over 450 volunteers provided invaluable assistance to the Resident 
Associate Program monitoring special events, lectures, courses, and 
tours, and performing vital office duties. The .80 volunteer office 
workers represent the equivalent of six full-time staff members; the 
378 monitors worked the equivalent of five full-time employees. 



Membership and Development I 309 



Smithsonian Year - 1980 
PUBLIC INFORMATION 



LAWRENCE E. TAYLOR, 
COORDINATOR 



Office of Public Affairs 

Although millions of people visit the Smithsonian every year, mil- 
lions more never have an opportunity to participate in the great 
variety of its activities. As an outgrowth of existing public out- 
reach programs, the Office of Public Affairs launched a free, 
monthly feature story service for daily and weekly newspapers — 
the Smithsonian News Service. 

The features take the reader behind the scenes at the Smith- 
sonian, describing the process and benefits of Smithsonian research. 
Since its inception in October 1979, the Smithsonian News Service 
has been received enthusiastically by editors at both large and small 
daily and weekly newspapers in all fifty states. Well over 1,400 
newspapers, having a total combined circulation of forty million 
and a readership of ninety million, use the news service features. 

During its inaugural year, the service distributed forty-nine 
stories, many with photographs and illustrations, on such topics 
as the presidential elections, coral reef research, contemporary art, 
tropical biology, oceanliners, women aviators, Fourth of July tradi- 
tions, Christmas customs, ants, astronomy, prehistoric Indians, 
Oriental art, animal communication, the Archives of American Art, 
and the American Renaissance. A key element of the Smithsonian 
News Service success has been the cooperation of the Institution's 
scholars and scientists, both as sources for stories and as reviewers 
of the finished products. The eclectic assortment of stories mirrors 
the richness and diversity of Smithsonian art, history, and scientific 
activities now being shared with millions of people throughout the 
United States. 



310 



As foreign visitors flocked to the United States in record num- 
bers, attracted by favorable currency exchange rates, the Office of 
Public Affairs published editions of its general information Welcome 
brochure in German, French, Spanish, and Japanese. The publica- 
tions are the only free, printed materials in foreign languages cur- 
rently available about the Smithsonian. 

Print and braille editions of A Guide to the Smithsonian for Dis- 
abled People were published early in 1980. The brochure was 
written in the Office of Public Affairs, with design and printing 
costs provided by the President's Committee on Employment of 
the Handicapped. The committee hopes that the brochure, the first 
of its kind, will be used as a model by museums and cultural in- 
stitutions around the country. 



Public Information I 311 




Teresa Yenque and Trini Alvarado starred in Maggie Magalita, commissioned and 
produced by Kennedy Center Programs for Children and Youth for the 1980 Imagina- 
tion Celebration. 



Smithsonian Year • 1980 



JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER 
FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 

ROGER L. STEVENS, CHAIRMAN 



As the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts approaches 
the year in which it will celebrate its first- decade as this nation's 
showcase for the performing arts, its record of artistic, educa- 
tional, and public service programming documents how well the 
center has succeeded as a living memorial to the late President 
Kennedy. 

From its inception by Act of Congress in 1958 as the national 
cultural center, the Kennedy Center has focused on broad national 
participation in the performing arts. Its performance and attend- 
ance figures since 1971 — more than 9,000 performances, with 
audiences exceeding fourteen million — underscore the strength of 
the center's commitment to broad public access to the performing 
arts. 

The center's extraordinary success as a performing arts center 
has enabled it to attract the substantial private funding necessary 
to fulfill the cultural mandate set forth for it by the United States 
Congress: 

1. to present classical and contemporary music, opera, dance, 
and poetry from this and other countries; 

2. to present lectures and other programs; 

3. to develop programs for children, youth, the elderly, and 
other age groups; 

4. to provide facilities for other civic activities. 

The Board of Trustees of the Kennedy Center administers the 
center's performing arts operation as a separate, independent, and 



313 



self-sustaining bureau of the Smithsonian Institution. Operating 
within the Kennedy Center, but separately administered by their 
own boards of trustees, are the National Symphony Orchestra, 
the Washington Opera, the American Film Institute, and the Wash- 
ington Performing Arts Society. This annual report of the Kennedy 
Center encompasses the performing arts activities of each of these 
affiliate organizations. 

Once again this past year, the Kennedy Center was the focus 
of major international events in the performing arts. It served as 
this country's host for the first American visit of the renowned 
Vienna State Opera, appearances by the Berlin Ballet, the Peking 
Opera Theatre, major symphony orchestras from around the 
world, and the first congress in America of L'Union Internationale 
de la Marionnette for its 1980 World Puppetry Festival. 

The center's primary efforts, however, continued to emphasize 
expanding its commitment to the performing arts in America — 
presenting a broad and balanced array of musical, theatrical, dance, 
film, and public service programming that emphasizes quality and 
this nation's rich cultural diversity. 

The first full year of operation of the Terrace Theater has en- 
abled the center to increase significantly the range of performing 
artists that it can present; this is so because the theater provides 
access to small groups and talented individuals that could not be 
accommodated in the center's larger halls for economic or aesthetic 
reasons. America's only professional touring repertory theater, The 
Acting Company, became the center's official touring unit and now 
is scheduled to visit communities large and small across the United 
States in 1981. Artistic programming of the highest caliber is being 
shared with increasingly large young audiences: major elements of 
the National Children's Arts Festival held annually at the Kennedy 
Center were incorporated in outreach festivals during 1980 in 
Atlanta, Phoenix, and Seattle. 

America's famed Metropolitan Opera paid its first visit to the 
Kennedy Center Opera House in 1980, initiating an event that is 
expected to take place annually in the future. And the center 
launched the first phase of an unprecedented dance series — Dance 
America — featuring appearances by more than a dozen of this 
country's most innovative contemporary companies on three differ- 
ent Kennedy Center stages. 



314 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



The emphasis on American themes and artists was represented 
in the center's theaters with productions ranging from the revival 
of the Leonard Bernstein / Jerome Robbins musical West Side 
Story to the premiere of Tennessee Williams's new drama, Clothes 
for a Summer Hotel, about the troubled relationship between Scott 
and Zelda Fitzgerald. New plays by such young playwrights as Tina 
Howe and Robert Jones were presented in the Eisenhower and 
Terrace Theaters. Outstanding American dance companies — the 
Pennsylvania Ballet and Eliot Feld Ballet — made their Kennedy 
Center debuts in the Opera House while the American Ballet 
Theatre and the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater returned for 
traditional annual engagements. 

The Kennedy Center Honors Program, begun only three years 
ago, has come to be regarded as the highest recognition bestowed 
on this country's outstanding performing artists. Public awareness 
of the importance of the performing arts in our cultural life has 
been heightened by CBS network television broadcasts of gala 
tributes in the Opera House to each year's Honors recipients. 
Selected by the Kennedy Center Board of Trustees as Honors re- 
cipients for 1980 were Leonard Bernstein, James Cagney, Agnes 
de Mille, Lynn Fontanne, and Leontyne Price. 

The center has consistently sought to help identify and assist 
young talent through the Young Concert Artists series and such 
events as the Friedheim and Rockefeller music competitions and 
play readings. The center's commitment to cultural diversity and 
access to the performing arts for all ethnic groups was continued 
during 1980 through such special projects as the National Black 
Music Colloquium and Competition and a National Black Theater 
and Playwright Project designed to encourage new playwrights. 

Important advisory networks — the Alliance for Arts Education, 
the National Committee on Cultural Diversity in the Performing 
Arts, and the presidentially appointed members of the Kennedy 
Center Board of Trustees and Advisory Committee on the Arts — 
enable the center to focus on the future of the performing arts 
across America. As a living memorial to the importance of the per- 
forming arts in the cultural and intellectual life of our nation, the 
Kennedy Center now seeks to involve and stimulate broad national 
audiences far beyond the forty million visitors of all ages who have 
already passed through its doors. 



John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 315 



Performing Arts Programming 

During the 1979-80 season, 1,245 performances were presented in 
the Opera House, Concert Hall, Eisenhower and Terrace Theaters; 
audience attendance exceeded 1.3 million. In addition, the American 
Film Institute presented more than seven hundred films to an audi- 
ence of more than 100,000 people in the American Film Institute 
Theater at Kennedy Center. 

DRAMA AND MUSICAL COMEDY 

During 1979-80, theatergoers attended 735 performances of twenty- 
three productions. The Eisenhower Theater season featured nine 
dramatic productions; and a new musical, Charlie and Algernon, 
by David Rogers and Charles Strouse, rounded out the season in 
a pre-Broadway engagement following its successful premiere 
earlier in the year in the center's Terrace Theater. 

The Terrace Theater offered a wide variety of diverse and innova- 
tive programming during its second year of operation, including 
eight theatrical presentations particularly reflective of this theater's 
function as an artistic base for younger companies, including The 
Acting Company, Folger Theater Company, and Goodman Theater. 
The Terrace Theater season opened with three productions staged 
by The Acting Company: Elizabeth I, directed by Liviu Ciulei; The 
White Devil, directed by Michael Kahn; and Broadway, directed by 
Gerald Gutierrez. Last spring, the Kennedy Center named The Act- 
ing Company its official touring unit, thus fulfilling a long-held 
hope to establish a national theatrical touring company. It is envi- 
sioned that The Acting Company will return annually to the Terrace 
Theater and also expand its national touring to include extended 
residencies in small and large communities across the country, in- 
cluding Nashville, Birmingham, Fort Lauderdale, Oberlin (Ohio), 
and Washington (Pennsylvania), during the 1980-81 season. 

Completing the 1979—80 theater season were four major musicals, 
among them Jerome Robbins's restaging of West Side Story, the 
landmark musical by Leonard Bernstein, Stephen Sondheim, and 
Arthur Laurents which premiered in 1957. Since 1971, some 157 
theatrical productions have been presented at the Kennedy Center. 
Of these, 96 have been produced, coproduced, or made possible by 
the center itself. 



316 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



DANCE 
The Kennedy Center's 1979-80 dance season featured six Ameri- 
can dance companies and two distinguished foreign troupes to 
offer 117 performances of widely varying style. Companies of 
major importance featured during the year included American 
Ballet Theatre, New York City Ballet, the Eliot Feld Ballet, the 
Pennsylvania Ballet, the distinguished Berlin Ballet, and the first 
American tour by the Shanghai Acrobatic Theater of the People's 
Republic of China. The dance season's showcasing of American 
companies was highlighted by the announcement of a year-long 
joint presentation of American dance in 1980—81 by the Kennedy 
Center and the Washington Performing Arts Society — Dance 
America. The Lar Lubovitch Dance Company and Bill T. Jones 
initiated the series of twelve engagements. American Ballet 
Theatre, the Kennedy Center's official company, was forced to 
cancel its winter engagement at the center because of unresolved 
labor disputes but the company did appear for a three-week spring 
engagement as part of a national tour celebrating Ballet Theatre's 
fortieth anniversary season. Highlights included a gala anniversary 
evening featuring Natalia Makarova, Martine van Hamel, Anthony 
Dowell, and Alexander Godunov. During the year folk dance 
troupes from Mexico, Czechoslovakia, Palestine, and Trinidad ap- 
peared under sponsorship of the Washington Performing Arts 
Society. 

MUSIC 

Two major operatic events highlighted Kennedy Center's 1979-80 
musical season, and a calendar of 362 performances featured young 
artists, new works, popular, jazz, and gospel music, as well as 
concerts by major symphony orchestras and recital artists from 
around the world. The musical programming presented by the 
Kennedy Center, the National Symphony, associated organizations, 
and independent producers included 171 symphony concerts, 48 
opera performances, 58 recitals, 20 choral concerts, 29 concerts of 
chamber music, and 36 concerts by popular, folk, and jazz artists. 

With the assistance of a generous grant from the Austrian gov- 
ernment and further support provided by the Morris and Gwendolyn 
Cafritz Foundation and IBM Corporation, the Kennedy Center pre- 
sented the first American engagement of the renowned Vienna 



John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 317 



State Opera. The Metropolitan Opera appeared for the first time at 
the Kennedy Center in a one-week engagement that offered six 
different works. In a quite different but equally dramatic tradition, 
the Peking Opera from the People's Republic of China made its first 
appearance in Washington bringing eight repertory pieces that com- 
bined acting, singing, acrobatics, the martial arts, music, and 
spectacle. 

The National Symphony Orchestra, administered as an affiliate 
of the Kennedy Center by its own board of directors, presented 134 
concerts in the center's Concert Hall, including an extensive program 
of school Youth and Family concerts. The renowned Philadelphia 
Orchestra returned for its series of Monday evening performances 
and the Washington Performing Arts Society presented engage- 
ments by leading orchestras from the United States and around the 
world including the Dresden and Moscow State Orchestras, the 
New York Philharmonic, the Boston Symphony, and the Cleveland 
Orchestra. 

The addition of the Terrace Theater to the center's facilities pro- 
vided an intimate recital hall appropriate for the presentation of 
less-established musical artists, as well as young companies of actors 
and dancers. The Young Concert Artist Series and a concert series 
by the center's resident chamber ensemble, the Theater Chamber 
Players, highlighted the Terrace Theater's musical programming. 

Major musical competitions held during the past year and spon- 
sored by the Kennedy Center further demonstrated the center's 
emphasis on the encouragement of younger artists and the explora- 
tion of unfamiliar American repertory. 

The Kennedy Center / Rockefeller Foundation International Com- 
petition was established to stimulate the interest of performers, 
teachers, and students in the largely unexplored repertory of music 
written by American composers in this century. The competitions 
are funded by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation and winners 
receive substantial cash awards, in addition to concert and record- 
ing contracts for the First Place performer. 

A more specialized area of the musical repertory was the focus 
of the National Black Music Colloquium and Competition held 
around the country and culminating at the Kennedy Center during 
January, 1980, with a full week of master classes, workshops, sym- 
posia, and public recitals. These events capped a two-year effort by 



318 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



the Kennedy Center to recognize black participation in the field of 
classical music, to identify and assist talented young artists across 
America, and to encourage the performance of works by America's 
black composers. 

The Kennedy Center / Friedheim Awards were established specif- 
ically to recognize outstanding American composers of chamber and 
symphonic music. The Friedheim Awards honor the late Arthur 
Friedheim, distinguished pianist and pupil of Franz Liszt and Anton 
Rubinstein, and are supported by a grant from the Eric Friedheim 
Foundation. 

FILM 

Since its opening in April 1973, the American Film Institute (afi) 
Theater has shown more than five thousand motion pictures to an 
estimated audience of almost three-quarters of a million people. 
Programming selections have reflected the entire span of the de- 
velopment of film as art and industry. Many selections, particularly 
of pre— 1972 motion pictures, are made possible for audience view- 
ing only by virtue of afi's film preservation program. 

Among the series presented during the 1980 calendar year were 
tributes to producers David O. Selznick and Howard Hughes, 
directors Preston Sturges and Frederick Wiseman, writer Raymond 
Chandler, and stars James Stewart, Claudette Colbert, Spencer 
Tracy, and Laurence Olivier. In an ongoing survey of world 
cinema, the afi Theater presented new and/or classic films from 
Spain, Norway, West Germany, and Japan. Theme-oriented pro- 
gramming included Films That Got Away, oft-requested films from 
Our First Decade, Great Opera on Film, The Native American 
Image on Film, numerous programs of documentaries and inde- 
pendent films, films from afi's own archives, Films and Fantasy, 
Musical Theater and Film, MGM Musicals, a series devoted to 
classic American films, and a nostalgic collection of films about the 
education experience. 

Public Service Programming 

Under Section 4 of its authorizing legislation, signed by President 
Dwight Eisenhower in 1958, the Kennedy Center is charged by 
Congress with wide-ranging responsibilities for performing arts, 



John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 319 



public service, and education programming. During the past year, 
the Kennedy Center allocated more than $2 million raised from 
private sources — principally the Kennedy Center Corporate Fund 
and private foundations — to carry out programming mandated by 
Congress and to provide broad public access to the center and its 
activities. Private funding contributed significantly to extensive 
programming for young audiences at the center and around the 
country and made possible a calendar of free events throughout 
the year, including symposia, lectures, theater and musical per- 
formances, and exhibitions. 

During the past year, 478 free public service events were pre- 
sented at Kennedy Center, of which 415 were sponsored by the 
center itself and 63 by associated and public service organizations. 
Audience attendance for these events totalled 196,525. 

The Terrace Theater complex at Kennedy Center, which also in- 
cludes the center's Performing Arts Library, Theatre Lab, and Edu- 
cation Department, has enabled the Kennedy Center to extend its 
national outreach as a cultural center by providing a showcase for 
small music, dance, and theater groups from around the country. 
Major support from the Kennedy Center Corporate Fund has helped 
to insure access to the Terrace Theater by performing groups with 
limited financial resources. During its first year of operation, more 
than four hundred performances by seventy-seven different per- 
forming groups were featured. Two major components of the cen- 
ter's Education Program — Programs for Children and Youth and the 
American College Theatre Festival — are resident in the Terrace 
Theater. 

The center's 1979 Holiday Festival presented twenty-two free 
and low-admission events for all age groups. Highlights of the fes- 
tival included the Messiah Sing-Along, Grand Foyer free concerts 
that drew audiences of over ten thousand, and what has become a 
New Year's Eve tradition, A Night in Old Vienna. 

The Mobil Oil Corporation continued to sponsor its National 
Town Meeting programs at the Kennedy Center. More than twenty 
thousand citizens attended live national debates on key issues, while 
radio audiences around the country participated via National Public 
Radio. Principal guests included presidential candidate John Ander- 
son, National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski, and United 
Nations Secretary General, Kurt Waldheim. 



320 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Education Programming 

The Kennedy Center's authorizing legislation specifically directed 
the Board of Trustees to develop programs for children and youth 
in the performing arts. The Kennedy Center's Education Program 
was designed toward this end to provide national leadership in the 
field of arts education and to cooperate with regional performing 
arts centers and education networks across the country in develop- 
ing and presenting model performances for young audiences. 

To serve these ends, the four components of the Kennedy 
Center's Education Program are coordinated: the Alliance for Arts 
Education, the Programs for Children and Youth, the American 
College Theatre Festival, and Arts Coalition Northwest. Programs 
for Children and Youth and the American College Theatre Festival 
present performances for and by young people. The Alliance for 
Arts Education and Arts Coalition Northwest serve as national 
and regional networks for the exchange of information and the 
identification and support of model programs. At both the state 
and national levels the Kennedy Center Education Program seeks, 
by identifying and supporting exemplary arts education projects, 
to promote incorporation of the arts into the education of every 
child. As part of this commitment, the center works closely with 
its educational affiliate — the National Committee, Arts for the 
Handicapped. 

THE ALLIANCE FOR ARTS EDUCATION 

The Alliance for Arts Education (aae) is a network composed of 
fifty-five committees: one in each of fifty states plus representation 
for the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the District of Columbia, Puerto 
Rico, Samoa, and the Virgin Islands. The national office, based at 
Kennedy Center, is responsible for promoting an information ex- 
change among aae committees, providing technical assistance to 
the committees and others upon request in the field of arts educa- 
tion, and distributing contract funds provided by the Department 
of Education for committee activities and services. Each committee 
(usually composed of representatives from private and public 
agencies involved in arts education) sets its own goals, objectives, 
and activities. Most often these activities focus on the committee's 
role as a forum for state and local advocacy work for arts educa- 



John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 321 



tion, for the development and implementation of statewide plans 
for comprehensive arts education, and for providing consultant 
services to individuals and organizations conducting arts education 
programs and projects. 

The aae national director, staff, and five regional chairpersons 
provided technical assistance and consultation services directly to 
more than half of the aae committees during fiscal year 1980. Sup- 
port contract funds were also provided to forty-seven aae commit- 
tees around the country. 

PROGRAMS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

The commitment of the center's Education Program to quality 
performing arts programming for young people is clearly ex- 
pressed in the goals of its Programs for Children and Youth: "to 
support arts education programs in the schools through the 
medium of performance and to provide a variety of quality per- 
formances to student and general audiences." Along with the 
development and presentation of performances for young people, 
materials are provided for audiences and teachers to help integrate 
the performance experience into the student's over-all education. 

During 1979—80 the Programs for Children and Youth presented 
nearly 300 free performances and related events for audiences of 
more than 150,000 in Washington, D.C., and cities around the 
country. The Programs for Children and Youth produces a model 
fall and spring Children's Arts Series at the Kennedy Center, 
featuring professional artists performing for young people. Per- 
forming companies are selected from across the United States and 
represent the culturally diverse population of our country. Featured 
groups from the 1979-80 season included AFRI productions of 
New York City, the Asolo Touring Theater of Florida, Sheffield 
Ensemble Theater of Biloxi, Mississippi, and the Metro Theater 
Circus of St. Louis. 

Programs for Children and Youth annually presents "Imagination 
Celebration," a national children's arts festival, at the Kennedy 
Center, with major elements replicated in similar outreach festivals 
in selected cities throughout the United States. This program not 
only provides a model for performing arts festivals for young audi- 
ences, but enables the Kennedy Center to contribute to the develop- 
ment of new works, to involve noted artists in performing for young 



322 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



people, and to serve as a catalyst for the development of programs 
for young people at performing arts centers throughout the country. 
Denver, Chicago, Seattle, Atlanta, and Phoenix have mounted 
"Imagination Celebrations" (Atlanta, Phoenix, and Seattle in the 
spring of 1980). In the spring of 1981, the cities of Milwaukee, 
Birmingham, and Seattle will participate. Programs for Children 
and Youth provides technical assistance and core professional pro- 
ductions for each outreach festival, featuring such well-known 
artists as Sarah Caldwell, Jacques d'Amboise, and Leon Bibb in per- 
formances specifically developed for young audiences. 

Programs for Children and Youth was supported during 1979-80 
school performing groups visiting the nation's capital. Groups from 
more than a dozen states gave free performances in the Kennedy 
Center's Grand Foyer. 

Programs for Children and Youth were supported during 1979—80 
by the Kennedy Center Corporate Fund, the Department of Educa- 
tion, and grants from the Mobil Foundation, Inc., and the George 
Preston Marshall Foundation. 

AMERICAN COLLEGE THEATRE FESTIVAL 

The American College Theatre Festival (actf) is presented an- 
nually by the Kennedy Center, providing national recognition of 
the efforts of college and university theaters throughout the United 
States. During the twelfth actf (1979-80), more than 12,500 
students and 2,200 faculty members from over 400 schools partici- 
pated. Their productions across the country drew audiences of 
more than two million. The festival seeks to encourage new styles 
of theatrical presentation and methods of staging, innovative 
approaches to the classics, original plays by young writers, and 
revivals of significant plays of the past. It emphasizes excellence 
of total production, including acting, directing, design, and writing. 
Nearly eighty productions were presented in twelve regional fes- 
tivals. Of these, seven were chosen for showcase presentation at the 
Kennedy Center's new Terrace Theater: The Servant of Two 
Masters, University of South Florida, Tampa; The Diviners, Han- 
over College, Hanover, Indiana; Personals, Brandeis University, 
Waltham, Massachusetts; Distilling Spirits, University of Iowa, 
Iowa City; Streamers, State University College, Buffalo, New York; 
Philadelphia, Here I Cornel, Wayne State University, Detroit; and 



John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 323 



The Night of the Tribad.es, Arizona State University, Tempe. In 
addition actf xii marked the first year that an outstanding educa- 
tional institution has been invited to present a show at the national 
festival — Ladybug, Ladybug, Fly Away Home, was presented by 
Trinity University in conjunction with the Dallas Theater Center. 

The American College Theatre Festival, supported by the Amoco 
companies and the Kennedy Center Corporate Fund, is produced 
by the University and College Theatre Association for the American 
Theatre Association. 

ARTS COALITION NORTHWEST 

Arts Coalition Northwest is a cooperative arts-in-education pilot 
project of the Kennedy Center and Seattle Center, serving the 
states of Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and Alaska. Arts Coalition 
Northwest promotes the sharing of information, strategies, pro- 
grams, and resources among school districts, arts funding agencies, 
the Kennedy Center, and regional cultural centers. It represents 
the beginning of a federal, state, and local partnership for arts 
education while linking the programs of a national cultural center 
with the community and school efforts of a regional arts center. 
During its first year of operation, Arts Coalition Northwest pro- 
vided financial support and technical assistance for program plan- 
ning, training, and curriculum development in arts education. 

Arts Coalition Northwest is the first of what is expected to be a 
network of regional cultural center education programs that will 
further enable the Kennedy Center to extend its national outreach 
to strengthen and support the performing arts around the country. 

MINORITY AFFAIRS PROGRAMMING 

A National Commission to Expand the Scope and Constituency of 
Black Participation in the Performing Arts was formally convened 
in March 1977 and submitted a final report and recommendations 
to the Kennedy Center Board of Trustees in March 1979. The 
commission's mandate was to explore ways in which the center 
could expand its long-standing commitment to minority partici- 
pation by artists and audiences in all aspects of the performing 
arts. During its two-year tenure, the commission pursued its analyt- 
ical task while it sponsored more than a score of demonstration 
projects designed to encourage cultural diversity and involvement 



324 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



of minorities in the performing arts and to identify and assist 
talented minority artists. Nearly $600,000 in support was allocated 
by the center through its Corporate Fund to sustain these efforts. 

The commission's final report — Cultural Diversity and Quality 
in the Performing Arts — included in its recommendations to the 
center the establishment of a standing advisory committee to the 
chairman on minority affairs. Dr. Archie L. Buffkins, who had 
served as president of the commission, continued as consultant on 
minority affairs while the operation of such a committee was 
formulated. 

In June 1980, Roger L. Stevens, chairman of the Kennedy Center 
Board of Trustees, named the members of the center's present Na- 
tional Committee on Cultural Diversity in the Performing Arts: 
composer, Roque Cordero; dancer and choreographer, Chuck Davis; 
singer, Ella Fitzgerald; actress, Cicely Tyson; pianist, Andre Watts; 
and playwright, Richard Wesley. Also appointed to the committee 
were Kennedy Center trustees Marjorie M. Lawson and Henry 
Strong. 

FRIENDS OF THE KENNEDY CENTER 

The Friends of the Kennedy Center was established by the Ken- 
nedy Center Board of Trustees in 1966 as a national self- 
supporting auxiliary of volunteers. The organization is intended 
to help provide public service activities and programs on behalf 
of the center and to assist the center in its efforts to fulfill its role 
as the national cultural center. Income derived from Friends' 
membership and its gift and souvenir sales has enabled the 
Friends of the Kennedy Center to sponsor public service activities 
and to contribute substantial support — more than $220,000 in 
fiscal year 1980 — to major Kennedy Center projects such as the 
American College Theatre Festival and the completion of the 
Terrace Theater. 

Friends national membership numbers nearly 9,000, including 
Friends of the Kennedy Center chairmen in 39 states and 300 active 
volunteers in the Washington area who contributed more than 
65,000 hours of staff assistance during the past year. The Friends 
of the Kennedy Center Volunteer Office provides information and 
assistance for visitors and audiences at the Kennedy Center 365 
days a year, from 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. The Friends volunteers 



John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 325 



also provide special visitor assistance to the handicapped and ad- 
minister the Specially Priced Ticket Program. Friends tour guides 
offer free tours of the Kennedy Center every day of the year to the 
more than 6,000 people who visit the center on an average day. 

The Friends of the Kennedy Center provided substantial support 
for a series of free theater and music events at the center during the 
past year. The Friends supported the "Meet the Composers" series 
of symposia and recitals as part of the National Black Music Col- 
loquium and Competition. The Friends also sponsored free play 
readings of new works in the center's Theatre Lab. 

Mrs. Polk Guest, who has served as chairman of the Friends since 
1966, continued to oversee the organization's activities in Wash- 
ington ar.d around the country. 

SPECIALLY PRICED TICKET PROGRAM 

The Specially Priced Ticket Program has been an integral part of 
the Kennedy Center's public service efforts since the opening of 
the center in 1971. As simply one factor in its commitment to broad 
participation in the performing arts, the center maintains the most 
extensive reduced-price ticket program in the country, offering 15 
percent of available tickets at half-price admission for students, 
the handicapped, citizens over the age of 65 or of limited income, 
and military personnel in grades E-l through E-4. 

The cost of the Specially Priced Ticket Program, represented by 
the potential additional gross income lost to the center, is borne 
by the center. During the twelve-month period ending September 
30, 1980, 91,484 tickets for attractions produced or presented by 
the center were sold through the Specially Priced Ticket Program. 
The sale of these tickets at full price would have resulted in an 
additional gross income to the center of $413,889. 

The center also requires all presenters and independent pro- 
ducers to participate in the Specially Priced Ticket Program by of- 
fering a percentage of their tickets for sale at half-price. During 
the twelve-month period ending September 30, 1980, combined 
half-price ticket sales for center-produced or presented attractions 
and those of other presenters totalled 109,800. The sale of these 
tickets at full price would have resulted in additional gross income 
of $794,867 to the center, its associated organizations, and inde- 
pendent producers. 



326 / Smithsonian Year 1980 




First Lady Rosalynn Carter and Mrs. Joan Mondale, wife of the Vice-President, 
greeted the 1979 Kennedy Center Honors recipients at the White House. Recipients 
were (left to right) Henry Fonda, Martha Graham, Tennessee Williams, Ella Fitz- 
gerald, and Aaron Copland. (Photo by Jack Buxbaum.) 

KENNEDY CENTER HONORS 
The Board of Trustees of the Kennedy Center instituted the Kennedy 
Center Honors Program in 1978 in order to provide national recogni- 
tion for those outstanding individuals who have enriched American 
life and culture through their work in the performing arts. The 
Honors Programs was conceived not only to recognize the life 
achievements of individual artists but also to engender greater inter- 
est in the arts throughout the country. 

Honors recipients for 1978 were Marian Anderson, Fred Astaire, 
George Balanchine, Richard Rodgers, and Arthur Rubinstein; for 
1979, Aaron Copland, Ella Fitzgerald, Henry Fonda, Martha Graham, 
and Tennessee Williams. The Board of Trustees of the National 
Cultural Center selected the following as 1980 recipients of the 
Kennedy Center Honors: Leonard Bernstein, James Cagney, Agnes 
de Mille, Lynn Fontanne, and Leontyne Price. All embody the high- 
est accomplishments of their disciplines in the performing arts. The 
Honors Gala at the Kennedy Center was televised nationwide on 
December 27, 1980. 



John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 327 



PERFORMING ARTS LIBRARY 
The Performing Arts Library, completed in 1979 as part of the 
Terrace Theater complex, is a joint project of the Kennedy Center 
and the Library of Congress. The Performing Arts Library operates 
both as an information and reference facility within the Kennedy 
Center for artists, visitors, audience members, and staff and as a 
national clearinghouse for research and information sources on all 
aspects of the performing arts. Last year more than 16,000 visitors 
and users came to the library, used its book, periodical, audio- 
visual, and computer search services, and enjoyed the changing exhi- 
bitions on the performing arts. 

FOREIGN GIFTS 

The government of Greece presented the Kennedy Center with a 
cast bronze replica of an antique statue of the god Poseidon. The 
Honorable John E. Tzounis, the Ambassador of Greece to the 
United States, made the presentation of the sculpture, an exact 
copy of one of the most important surviving Greek works of art 
dating from 460—450 B.C. and thought to be the work of the 
Boetian sculptor Kalamis. The sculpture is on view to the public 
on the Box Tier of the Opera House. 



Funding 

The Kennedy Center was authorized by an act of Congress in 1958 
as the national cultural center. In 1964 a unanimous vote of Con- 
gress supported the dedication of the center as a living memorial 
to the late President John F. Kennedy and authorized federal 
matching funds for the building's construction. The Kennedy 
Center Board of Trustees raised more than $34 million, exceeding 
the matching requirement, and have continued to raise substantial 
private funding each year to support the wide range of program- 
ming mandated by Congress for the national cultural center. 

The Kennedy Center continues to fulfill its obligations as a per- 
forming arts center and sustains year-round public service and 
educational programming with virtually no direct federal, state, or 
municipal funding. Last year more than $3 million in private, cor- 



328 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



porate, and foundation contributions enabled the center to extend 
its educational programming and expertise to cities around the 
country, to present artists and companies from across America, 
to increase the participation of minority artists and audiences in all 
its arts programming, and to develop young talent and sponsor 
new works. 

The United States Department of Education and the Kennedy 
Center jointly sponsor the Alliance for Arts Education. Contractual 
funding provided by the Department of Education partially sup- 
ports other elements of the center's extensive education program — 
the American College Theatre Festival, the Programs for Children 
and Youth, and Arts Coalition Northwest. The center reimburses 
the National Park Service a prorata share of certain annual main- 
tenance, utility, and housekeeping costs on the basis of a formula 
devised to apportion costs of the building's upkeep as a presidential 
memorial and its operation as a performing arts center. The Ken- 
nedy Center, in turn, bears 100 percent of the costs of maintaining 
its theaters and extensive backstage facilities in addition to reim- 
bursing the National Park Service nearly $800,000 in fiscal year 
1980 for its apportioned maintenance, utility, and housekeeping 
costs. During 1980 repair, renovation, and reconstruction of the 
center's terraces, East Plaza Drive, and roof to correct water leaks 
were completed through a special appropriation of $4.5 million to 
the National Park Service which was authorized in 1977. 

The Kennedy Center's operating budget from its theater opera- 
tions, concession income, and private contributions exceeded $20 
million last year. Financial support from private sources of more 
than $3.5 million for fiscal year 1980 was essential to the center 
for carrying out the broad mandate of performing arts, public 
service, and educational programming set forth in its authorizing 
legislation, but not supported by federal appropriations. Since 
1971, the center's first year of operation, foundations, corporations, 
and individuals have contributed more than $15 million to enable 
the center to carry out its mandated responsibilities as the national 
cultural center. A major portion of this sustained private support 
has been provided since 1977 by the Corporate Fund for the 
Performing Arts, organized by major American corporations to 
support the Kennedy Center, with particular emphasis on assisting 
its educational and public service programs. Contributed funds 



John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 329 



enable the center to broaden its national outreach, to offer certain 
performing arts presentations free or at reduced prices, and to in- 
crease access to the center by young companies and artists from 
around the country. Participation in the Corporate Fund is open 
to any corporation that contributes to the center. James L. Fer- 
guson, chairman of General Foods Corporation, served as chairman 
of the 1980 Corporate Fund. Fund contributions received during 
the past year are named in Appendix 8. 



Board of Trustees 

The Kennedy Center is independently administered by a presiden- 
tially appointed, forty-five-member Board of Trustees as a bureau of 
the Smithsonian Institution. Thirty citizen members are appointed 
by the president of the United States to ten-year terms; six board 
members are thus appointed every two years. Remaining members 
are legislatively designated ex officio representatives of legislative 
and executive branches. Members of the Kennedy Center Board of 
Trustees are listed in Appendix 1. 

PRESIDENT'S ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON THE ARTS 

New appointments to the President's Advisory Committee on the 
Arts for the Kennedy Center were announced in March 1979. The 
committee, whose members are involved with the arts in every 
section of the country, met at the Kennedy Center in October 1979 
under the cochairmanship of Elizabeth Petrie and Robert Millonzi. 
The Advisory Committee on the Arts was established to assist the 
center's Board of Trustees on private fund-raising and national 
outreach programs. Names of the members of this committee are 
listed in Appendix 1. 



330 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Smithsonian Year • 1980 



WOODROW WILSON 

INTERNATIONAL CENTER 

FOR SCHOLARS 

JAMES H. BILLINGTON, DIRECTOR 



The Wilson Center— with the Kennedy Center for the Performing 
Arts and the National Gallery of Art — is one of three institutions 
with mixed trust / public funding created by the Congress within 
the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., fulfilling a na- 
tional mission under a board appointed by the president of the 
United States. The Wilson Center is an active workshop and 
switchboard for scholarship at the highest levels. Since its opening 
ten years ago this fall, it has gained widespread recognition for the 
work of its fellows in mining the scholarly riches of Washington, 
for its many meetings that bring together the world of affairs and 
the world of ideas, and for its democratic openness to all comers 
through its annual fellowship competition. 

Each year, some forty-five fellows are brought in through open 
international competition involving ever-increasing numbers of 
applicants from a wide range of backgrounds, disciplines, cultures, 
and nations. A broad spectrum of ideas is, in turn, shared with a 
nonspecialized national audience through The Wilson Quarterly, 
which already has more subscribers than any other scholarly 
quarterly journal in the English-speaking world. 

The Wilson Center seeks to render a service to the world and to 
the Washington, D.C., community by throwing open its core 
fellowship program to all interested individuals, both American 
and foreign. In effect, the center conducts an annual inventory of 
creative scholarship throughout the world. Fellows are selected for 
the promise, importance, and appropriateness of their projects on 
the recommendation of broadly based academic panels outside the 



331 



center. The Wilson Center has special areas of emphasis that pro- 
vide focus without the rigidity of university departments and ten- 
ured faculties. Fellows come for limited periods, not only in the 
broadly inclusive general division of history, culture, and society 
studies, but also in special programs in Russian and Soviet studies 
(the Kennan Institute), Latin American studies, international 
security studies, East Asia studies, and a program in American 
society and politics. Each program is directed by a scholar on the 
staff. 

Following its mandate to symbolize and strengthen the fruitful 
relation between the worlds of learning and of public affairs, the 
center sponsors conferences and seminars on topics of special cur- 
rent interest to both worlds. In 1980, for example, representative 
meetings brought scholars, businessmen, foreign visitors, and 
United States policymakers together to discuss a wide variety of 
topics. American scholars discussed the future of Sino-Soviet rela- 
tions with leading diplomats from both the Soviet Union and the 
People's Republic of China. Two leading Latin American novelists 
who have been fellows at the Wilson Center — Carlos Fuentes from 
Mexico and Mario Vargas Llosa from Peru — with Zbigniew 
Brzezinski, assistant to the president for national security affairs, 
and center fellow Laura Nader, discussed the role of ideas in Latin 
America. In many cases, the meetings produced papers and/or 
books that have been widely circulated to interested persons. 

As usual, the center's fellows have come from many corners of 
the globe and from all sections of the United States. Among its 
1980 fellows and guest scholars have been Karl Dietrich Bracher, 
professor of political science and contemporary history, University 
of Bonn; John Futrell, professor of law, University of Georgia and 
former president of the Sierra Club; Emmanuel Obeichina, chair- 
man, department of English, University of Nigeria; Lt. General 
(Ret.) Edward Rowny, United States Army, chief of United States 
military negotiations for salt; Neil Sheehan, journalist and author; 
and Yao Wei, chief of the press division, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 
People's Republic of China. The result of this broad mixing of 
scholarly interest and life experience is greater than the sum of its 
parts: the collegial atmosphere provides an opportunity for com- 
munication and learning that crosses cultural, national, and disci- 
plinary boundaries for the enrichment of all. 



332 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Smithsonian Year • 1980 



READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC. 



MRS. ROBERT S. MC NAMARA, CHAIRMAN 
RUTH GRAVES, PRESIDENT 



In 1980, Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. (rif) marked another suc- 
cessful year in its efforts to promote reading and literacy in 
America. As rif approaches its fifteenth anniversary in 1981, it is 
appropriate that the past year also signaled a major transition for 
the organization. 

rif is based on a simple idea: that if children are allowed to 
choose and keep books, they will read more. And so, through com- 
munity projects across the country, rif distributes books to mil- 
lions of children each year, rif enjoys tremendous popularity for 
this direct approach, and is now widely recognized as a leader 
among literacy programs. 

rif's first years were devoted to building a network of projects; 
from 1966 to 1976, 400 programs were established in forty-three 
states. In 1976 Congress passed legislation creating the Inexpensive 
Book Distribution Program, which provides federal matching funds 
to these projects to buy books. Since then, rif has grown enor- 
mously. In 1980, 4,000 rif projects distributed 11 million books to 
more than three million youngsters. With these projects firmly estab- 
lished, rif shifted its focus this year from growth to improved serv- 
ices, to both existing projects and the general public. 

The drive to improve services has taken several forms. In a con- 
tinuing commitment to disadvantaged youngsters, rif funded 65 
projects serving 80,000 children of migrant and seasonal farm 
workers. And in rif's fifth contract with the Department of Educa- 
tion to operate the Inexpensive Book Distribution Program, in- 
creased emphasis has been placed on "technical assistance." To 
meet this goal, rif has tapped the experience of longtime volun- 



333 



teers by training some as local community consultants. These con- 
sultants will hold meetings, each in his or her own region, offering 
advice on subjects such as reading motivation, volunteer recruit- 
ment, and parental involvement in the rif program. As part of the 
increased emphasis on services, moreover, rif has developed an 
information booth for conventions and conferences where attend- 
ing project leaders can receive individual guidance on their pro- 
grams. 

rif's public service television announcements reflect a trend to- 
ward increasing community involvement. Since 1971, rif's public 
service advertising campaign has been approved by The Advertising 
Council and generously supported by the media. Previous tele- 
vision spots encouraged viewers to start rif projects in their com- 
munities. In rif's newest announcements, however, actor Ed Asner 
urges viewers to support existing projects. In the first six months 
of 1980, the CBS television network alone gave $2 million in free 
broadcast time to the Asner ad; ABC gave $1 million. Figures for 
NBC are not yet available. 

rif's new magazine advertisements have reinforced rif's tradi- 
tional commitment to parental involvement in reading. Under the 
headline "Bring Back the Bedtime Story," one of these advertise- 
ments reads "... we must inspire the next generation to want to 
read — first by reading to our children, and later by putting books 
into their own hands .... So, if you have youngsters, put the rif 
philosophy to work in your home. Bring back the bedtime story 
tonight." From the beginning, rif has sought to involve parents, 
and today about 40 percent of rif volunteers are parents, rif rec- 
ognizes their critical importance to reading motivation, and hopes 
to fund major projects for parents in the coming years. 

While moving in these new directions, rif continued to provide 
its traditional services in 1980. Through meetings held across the 
country, rif helped 1,030 volunteers with technical problems and 
suggested creative approaches to reading motivation, rif continued 
to distribute its publications, including The Bulletin, which ap- 
peared in a new design format and continued to offer practical 
ideas for local volunteers. Among this year's special features in 
The Bulletin were articles on involving parents in reading motiva- 
tion and on using the public library, rif also continued to negotiate 
substantial discounts for its projects with nearly three hundred 



334 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



book publishers and distributors. These discounts average 30 per- 
cent per book. 

Over the past year rif enjoyed the continued support of the 
educational community, including the American Library Associa- 
tion, the National Association of Elementary School Principals, the 
National Education Association, and the International Reading Asso- 
ciation. In 1980, rif had the generous financial support of over fifty 
of America's major foundations and corporations, as well as many 
service organizations, labor groups, and private citizens. 

Studies continue to confirm rif's effectiveness at reading motiva- 
tion. For example, a 1980 study of children grades one through six 
in a California school concluded: "The results verified that gen- 
erally, all children became more positive toward reading after rif." 
Boys and the older children made special gains, as the writers 
noted: ". . . even in a school where the worth and value of read- 
ing is already important to students, rif can make a positive im- 
pact. It made its greatest impact on those hard to motivate boys 
and intermediate children." Results of the California study support 
earlier research, including statewide surveys in Texas and Penn- 
sylvania, that show rif significantly increases a child's desire to 
read and often results in higher reading scores. 

Reading Is Fundamental's success in 1980 again demonstrated 
the durability of this remarkable public/private partnership. As an 
article in the New York Times put it this year: "Some ideas die 
because they are simply too good to be true. But rif seems to be 
one of those rare examples of how the government has joined with 
the 'grass roots' community and virtually everyone has wound up 
applauding." 



Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. I 335 



Smithsonian Year • 1980 



SMITHSONIAN SCIENCE 
INFORMATION EXCHANGE, INC. 

DAVID F. HERSEY, PRESIDENT 



In last year's report it was indicated that the full transfer of the 
Smithsonian Science Information Exchange (ssie) from the Smith- 
sonian Institution to the Department of Commerce was expected to 
take place October 1, 1980. However, in considering the Depart- 
ment of Commerce budget request for fiscal year 1981, which in- 
cluded funds for the integration of ssie into the Department of 
Commerce, the House Appropriations Committee denied the funds 
requested to cover integration costs — in order to give time to ap- 
propriate legislative committees of the House and Senate to review 
the loss of substantial employment rights of ssie employees if 
they are converted to Civil Service status under existing laws. 
Funds to continue the support by contract (with ssie) for another 
year were approved pending resolution of these matters. In sum- 
mary, this action would tend to indicate that the merger will be 
delayed to afford time during which the Exchange would continue 
its cooperative status with the Smithsonian Institution. 

IMPROVING THE DATA BASE OF ONGOING 
RESEARCH INFORMATION 

Previous interactions by ssie with the Ad Hoc Committee on Scien- 
tific and Technological Information of the Federal Coordinating 
Council for Science, Engineering, and Technology, along with in- 
creased liaison by the Exchange with federal agencies, are believed 
to have resulted in a somewhat more timely input into the Ex- 
change of federally supported research information. As federal 
agencies improve their own systems of ongoing research informa- 
tion which they support, information in the ssie system will be- 



336 



come more timely and comprehensive. The Ad Hoc Committee is 
continuing its work and expects to develop a series of recommenda- 
tions for improving the transfer of scientific and technical infor- 
mation by the end of 1980. A number of the recommendations to 
be developed are expected to deal with input to and use of the 
Exchange with further positive benefits. 

Registration of ongoing research projects initiated in fiscal year 
1979 is expected to reach 120,000, a figure comparable to that of 
the previous fiscal year, with projects initiated in fiscal year 1980 
being higher than at the same time in the previous year. Unfor- 
tunately, because of limited funding, the number of non-federally- 
supported research projects is somewhat less than has been 
registered in previous fiscal years. The Exchange believes such 
research is of major importance to its users and will seek funding 
to continue registration of research since inclusion contributes to 
the uniqueness of the Exchange's system. 

It is clear from ssie's participation in the recent meeting of world 
experts in ongoing research information, convened by unesco early 
in September 1980, that such information continues to be of in- 
terest worldwide and that in the near future United States scien- 
tists and research managers may have greater access to such infor- 
mation from overseas sources than has been the case in the past. 
It is clear that the United States has been providing far more in- 
formation on such research to other countries in comparison to 
what it has been able to get back, even when such information is 
known to exist. As noted in earlier reports, the Exchange has 
pioneered in numerous projects relating to the collection and dis- 
semination of foreign research to United States scientists in 
selected subject catagories throughout the past ten years; several 
recent examples are discussed below. 

INCREASING AWARENESS AND USE OF THE EXCHANGE 

In a continuing effort to provide faster and better services to its 
users, the Exchange replaced its previous computer processing unit, 
an IBM 370/138 with the newer IBM Central Processing Unit 
4341. The new unit, which is now in operation, has over three 
times the processing speed of its predecessor. This will allow for 
more rapid delivery of output as well as improved speed of input 
and thus availability of information for retrieval. In addition, it 



Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc. I 337 



has four times the memory storage of the old unit, allowing for ad- 
ditional terminals to input and access the system as well as pro- 
vide for growth and development of new output services — includ- 
ing computer-to-computer communication. The Exchange antici- 
pates that with the forthcoming merger of ssie with the National 
Technical Information Service (ntis), such additional capability will 
become extremely useful. 

In anticipation of the forthcoming transfer, the Exchange began 
in the current year to negotiate with ntis to improve access to ssie's 
data file through the assistance of the Department of Commerce. 
Among those activities considered have been the utilization of ntis 
as leasor of the Exchange's data base. Many organizations both 
in the United States and overseas have expressed their desire over 
the past several years to lease such information. Inasmuch as ntis 
already has similar tape files from federal and nonfederal organiza- 
tions which it purveys, such an arrangement could stimulate dis- 
semination far beyond those agreements ssie has developed in the 
past. Use of other ntis marketing capabilities for the dissemination 
of ongoing research information has been discussed and will, it is 
hoped, be implemented in the coming year. 

While use of on-line searching has become a major approach for 
the utilization of ongoing research information, the Exchange has 
continued to provide many other services to its users concerned with 
research and development management. Among the many new 
directories of ongoing research information in selected subject areas 
prepared by the Exchange during the past year were publications 
on epidemiological research, solar energy and nonfossil fuel re- 
search, synthetic fuels and biosaline research, the latter including 
research performed on an international level as well as in the 
United States. 

Consultant services in the use of microcomputers for data base 
searching and retrieval were provided to the Department of the 
Navy at its request. The Exchange has also continued its partici- 
pation in both federal and nonfederal groups dealing with prob- 
lems associated with the collection and dissemination of scientific 
and technical information. Such participation included representa- 
tion on the United States Commission of the International Con- 
gress of Scientific Unions Abstracting Board (icsu/ab) and the 
Committee of World Experts of Information on Research in Prog- 



338 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



ress, convened by the Secretary General of unesco early in Septem- 
ber to advise him on a continuing program in this area as a part of 
that organization's General Information Program. 

In summary, the Exchange has continued to work towards the 
promotion and expansion of ongoing research information as an 
integral part of the research process in all areas of science and tech- 
nology, not only nationally but internationally as well. 



Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc. I 339 





Major paintings acquired during the year by the National Gallery of Art included 
the first work by Fitz Hugh Lane to enter the collection, Lumber Schooners at Eve- 
ning on Penobscot Bay, an oil on canvas dated 1860. 



Smithsonian Year -1980 



NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 



J. CARTER BROWN, DIRECTOR 



The National Gallery of Art, although formally established as 
a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an autonomous and 
separately administered organization. It is govered by its own 
board of trustees, the ex officio members being the Chief Justice 
of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the 
Treasury, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. Of the 
five general trustees, Paul Mellon continued to serve as chairman 
of the board, with John R. Stevenson and Carlisle H. Humelsine as 
president and vice-president, respectively. Also continuing on the 
board were Dr. Franklin D. Murphy and Ruth Carter Johnson. 

During fiscal year 1980, a record total of 5,997,210 visitors were 
counted entering both of the gallery buildings, an increase over the 
previous year's record attendance figure of 5,529,802. 

The year was distinguished by the opening of the Center for 
Advanced Study in the Visual Arts, culminating thirteen years of 
planning and preparation. An advisory board was appointed and 
met twice, in the fall and the spring. A Selection Committee met in 
January and announced the names of the first group of scholars 
for the academic year 1980-81. Office spaces for the center were 
finished and occupied by the middle of August and an open house 
was held for the gallery staff in September. 

The gallery staff was saddened by the deaths of three very 
generous benefactors. Edgar William and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch 
had donated over the years more than 250 American naive paint- 
ings. Their final bequest of 65 paintings and 18 graphics included 
outstanding works by Thomas Chambers, John Durand, Erastus 
Salisbury Field, and Joshua Johnston, a Peaceable Kingdom by 
Edward Hicks, and several anonymous American masterpieces. 



341 



The death last year of Lessing J. Rosenwald, one of the gallery's 
Founding Benefactors and for many years a general trustee, meant 
the loss not only of the generous donor of the greatest collection 
of prints and drawings ever assembled by an American, but of a 
wise and attentive friend of the gallery. The transfer of some 
20,000 works of art, which had been on view at Mr. Rosenwald's 
gallery at Jenkintown, Pennsylvania, came three weeks after the 
Graphic Arts Department had completed the mammoth job of 
moving the entire collection of 50,000 prints and drawings from 
the West Building to its spacious new facility in the East Building. 

Among the outstanding graphics acquired by gift during the 
year were two rare and very fine landscape drawings by Jacob de 
Gheyn and William Buytewech, two of Domenico Tiepolo's series 
of large Punchinello drawings, a beautiful Andrew Wyeth water- 
color entitled Hawk Mountain, a large color lithograph of Bathers 
by Cezanne, and a complete set of Giovanni Battista Piranesi's 
Antichita Romane. 

Purchases of drawings were highlighted by the Head of Saint 
John the Baptist by Hans Baldung Grien and the finest surviving 
drawing by Jacopo Bassano, the Mocking of Christ. 

Two major sculpture acquisitions were donated by the gallery's 
Collectors Committee: Max Ernst's surrealist composition entitled 
Capricorn, and a David Smith entitled Sentinel I. 

Major paintings acquired during the year included the first Fitz 
Hugh Lane to enter the collection, Lumber Schooners at Evening 
on Penobscot Bay, a rare and lyrical twilight scene. Two fine Ameri- 
can portraits, Samuel Alleyne Otis by Gilbert Stuart and Mrs. 
Samuel Alleyne Otis (Elizabeth Gray) by John Singleton Copley, 
were donated by a descendant of the sitters. 

Twelve exhibitions offered during the year drew from the arts 
of six centuries, from thirteenth-century Duccio in the selection of 
masterpieces from the collection of Baron Thyssen-Bornemisza 
and exquisite Persian miniatures of the sixteenth century, to the 
wall-size paintings of the present day in the Morton G. Neumann 
Family Collection. American painting and decorative arts were well 
represented throughout the year. Three such exhibitions ran con- 
currently. The revelatory American Light: The Luminist Move- 
ment, 1850-1875 examined for the first time the full artistic and 
philosophic range of the landscape artists of this period, from their 



342 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



predecessors of the Hudson River school to their influence on 
artists who followed. At the same time, the visitor could see In 
Praise of America: Masterworks of American Decorative Arts, 
1650—1830, a selection of furniture, glass, and silver masterpieces 
created by craftsmen in this country's first two hundred years, and 
a complementary display of watercolor renderings of similar ob- 
jects from the Index of American Design. In May, the gallery 
opened a comprehensive survey of Post-Impressionism: Cross- 
currents in European and American Painting, 1880—1906, an 
exhibition of approximately three hundred paintings illustrating 
the response of artists in Europe, Great Britain, Scandinavia, and 
America to impressionism. 

The gallery made loans to thirty-three exhibitions at 36 Ameri- 
can institutions and to sixteen exhibitions at 19 museums in 
Europe and Asia. Included were a total of 64 paintings, 28 sculp- 
tures, and 46 works of graphic art. 

The Education Department prepared brochures, electronic tours, 
wall texts and object labels, special tours, and film programs de- 
signed to add to the visitor's appreciation of the special exhibitions. 
Attendance at these events and the regularly scheduled tours and 
talks relating to the gallery's collections which are given by Edu- 
cation Department staff docents, as well as tours conducted by 
volunteer docents for area school children and foreign visitors, and 
the auditorium lectures delivered by invited scholars, totaled 
171,581. From January to May, students from Gallaudet College's 
Interpreter Training Program accompanied staff lecturers, inter- 
preting the talks to hearing-impaired visitors. 

Among the thirty-seven guest speakers during the year were 
Peter Kidson, noted British architectural historian, who delivered 
the 1980 A. W. Mellon Lectures in the Fine Arts on "Principles 
of Design in Ancient and Medieval Architecture." Other distin- 
guished speakers included William Heckscher, formerly of Duke 
University, and Otto von Simson, of the Berlin Free University, 
who shared the 1979-80 National Gallery of Art Kress Professor- 
ship; Alan Bowness, director of the Tate Gallery, London; Allen 
Rosenbaum, acting director of the Art Museum, Princeton Uni- 
versity; and Stuart Cary Welch, curator of Muslim and Hindu 
painting at the Fogg Museum at Harvard. 

Two programs developed and produced by the Department of 



National Gallery of Art I 343 



Extension Programs during the year won 1980 CINE Golden Eagle 
Awards. The films were concerned with two of the works of art 
which were commissioned for the East Building, the Mobile by 
Alexander Calder and Femme/ Woman: A Tapestry by Joan Miro. 
A third film which won a CINE Golden Eagle, Adventures in Art, 
was produced by Station WETA-TV with the assistance of the 
department and provided a half-hour introductory tour of the 
gallery's collections with actress Julie Harris. Over the year, the 
programs developed and distributed by the department served an 
audience estimated at 7,991,771 persons throughout the United 
States, in nine foreign countries, three territories, and twenty-eight 
military installations abroad, through individual bookings of pro- 
gram material and through public and education television broad- 
casts. 

Thirty-nine Sunday evening concerts were given in the East 
Garden Court of the West Building. Attendance at these concerts 
remained high, exceeding capacity at the eleven concerts given by 
the National Gallery of Art Orchestra conducted by Richard Bales, 
who celebrated his thirty-seventh season at the gallery. 



344 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Smithsonian Year • 1980 
CHRONOLOGY 



The following is a representative selection of Smithsonian events during the 
fiscal year. No attempt has been made to make this a complete compilation of 
Smithsonian activities. 



October 

Collections Inventory: Inventory of the national collections, an accelerated 
program, was undertaken by collections management and is designed to pro- 
vide a comprehensive registry of all Smithsonian holdings. 

New Program: The Office of Public Affairs began the Smithsonian News Serv- 
ice, a nationwide, feature-story service for daily and weekly newspapers, aimed 
at promoting awareness of the Institution's activities in science, art, tech- 
nology, and history. 

Seminars: Fifty midday seminars led by visiting and Smithsonian experts 
were sponsored throughout the year, from October 5, 1979, through Septem- 
ber 23, 1980, by the Department of Zoological Research. Subjects ranged from 
Digestive Physiology of the Hindgut in Mammals to Deferred Reproduction 
in Wolves. 

Training Sessions: Administrative and management training sessions were ini- 
tiated for Smithsonian staff; the series included personnel policies, super- 
vision, performance appraisal, and equal opportunity. 

Seminar: The Quest for Beauty, second seminar in the series North Carolina 
Scholars at the Smithsonian, bringing special emphasis to art and its rela- 
tionship to science, was sponsored by the Office of Smithsonian Symposia 
and Seminars. 

Special Series: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory inaugurated monthly 
"Open Nights" for the public, featuring a film, lecture, and telescopic 
observing. 

Award: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory's Steven Weinberg — also a 
Professor of Physics at Harvard — was awarded the 1979 Nobel Prize in 
Physics for his contributions to the elucidation of a "Unified Theory of Weak 
and Electromagnetic Interactions." 

Award: National Museum of Natural History botanist F. Raymond Fosberg 
received the 1979 Edward W. Browning Award in recognition of his accom- 
plishments in the understanding and conservation of our natural environment. 

Special Study: First cruise of the research vessel took place on the Rhode River 
to test "Solar Radiation in an Estuary," a collaborative effort of the Chesa- 
peake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, Radiation Biology Laboratory, 
and Museum of Natural History, with funding by a Smithsonian Scholarly 
Studies grant. 



345 



Performance Series: The Dick Myers Puppet Theater opened the Division of 
Performing Arts Discover Performing! series of programs for children. 

Seminars: Fourteen Selected Studies seminars were sponsored throughout the 
year by the National Associate Program. Subjects ranged from Genealogical 
Research to Astronomy of the Ancients. 

Lecture Series: "Sun: Star of Life," a four-part lecture series, began at the Na- 
tional Air and Space Museum. Lectures dealt with our sun and the most 
recent attempts to make solar energy more useful in our everyday lives. 

Research: The Office of Biological Conservation and the Threatened Plants 
Committee began a joint study to identify endangered, vulnerable, and rare 
plant species in Mexico and Central and South America in order to determine 
the true status of these species and the threats to their habitats. 

Outreach: The Education Department of the National Museum of History and 
Technology began the Senior Series, a thematic outreach program developed 
for senior citizens. 

October 1 

Appointment: Roger G. Kennedy became director of the National Museum of 
History and Technology. 

Videotape Release: The Office of Telecommunications released its new video- 
taped program, jointly produced with the Office of Elementary and Secondary 
Education, for the training of guards to assist hearing-impaired visitors to the 
museums. 

October 2 

Lecture Series: Keynote address by energy expert Daniel Yergin opened the 
seven-week series of free public lectures on energy alternatives, Future 
Power: Realities and Myths of the Energy Crisis, made possible by a grant 
from the National Science Foundation and presented by the Resident Asso- 
ciate Program. 

October 3-8 

Folklife Festival: The thirteenth annual Festival of American Folklife featured 
participants from across the nation, including Caribbean Americans, Finnish 
Americans, and newly arrived Americans from Southeast Asia. A traditional 
energy-efficient house type, called the Dog Trot House, was constructed on 
the National Mall. 

October 4 

Awards: The National Zoo received five awards for graphic design from the 
American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums. Awards were for 
exhibits, traffic signs, publications, and souvenir design. 

Milestone: Fifth anniversary was marked at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp- 
ture Garden, now the best attended contemporary art museum in the country. 

October 5-6 

Lecture: Outreach program on Carnival at Howard University and the Duke 
Ellington School of the Arts was sponsored by the Center for the Study of 
Man. Seminar on Carnival was part of the Festival of American Folklife on 
the National Mall. 

October 5-7 

Concert Series: The American Musical Theater Series of the Division of Per- 
forming Arts opened with an evening of music with Max Morath as host. 



346 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



October 7 

Visit: Pope John Paul II visited the Smithsonian Institution Castle Building, 
was greeted by Secretary Ripley and Chief Justice Warren Burger, and was 
presented with the Smithson Medal. 

October 9 

Exhibition: Edison: Lighting a Revolution opened at the National Museum of 
History and Technology, celebrating the 100th anniversary of the light bulb. 

October 12 

Awards: Reunions: Memories of an American Experience, produced by the 
Office of Telecommunications and the Motion Picture Unit of the Office of 
Exhibits Central, was honored with the Chris Bronze Plaque Award by the 
Film Council of Greater Columbus, Ohio. 

October 12-14 

Sampler Weekend: First of three special weekends for Associates was held 
with tours and lectures in five museums on the National Mall. This activity 
was sponsored by Associates Travel, Smithsonian National Associate Program. 

October 13 

Special Event: Tallulah: A Dramatization by Eugenia Raiols was presented by 
the National Portrait Gallery, the first in a series of "Portraits in Motion." 

October 14 

Concert Series: The Dixie Hummingbirds, with a fifty-year tradition of gospel 
quartet music, launched the new series of Black Gospel Music presented by 
the Division of Performing Arts. 

Exhibition: Mies van der Rohe: The Barcelona Pavilion opened at the National 
Gallery of Art. 

October 15 

Special Event: Isaac Bashevis Singer, Nobel Prize-winning novelist, gave a talk 
on My Life as a Jewish Writer, as part of the National Portrait Gallery 
"Living Self-Portrait" series. 

Exhibition: Afro-American Tradition in the Decorative Arts opened at the 
National Museum of History and Technology, with craft demonstrations by 
the Office of Folklife Programs. 

October 16 

Exhibition: Smithsonian, comprising hundreds of objects borrowed from all 
branches of the Institution, opened at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New 
York. 

October 21 

Concert Series: The 20th Century Consort began its residence at the Hirshhorn 
Museum and Sculpture Garden, including a world premiere of a work by 
William Penn and other works of modern chamber music, in a series presented 
by the Division of Performing Arts in conjunction with the Hirshhorn. 

October 22-24 

Workshop: The Native American Museum Training Program conducted the 
Arctic Regional Workshop in Anchorage, Alaska. This workshop was spon- 
sored by the Office of Museum Programs. 



Chronology I 34J7 



October 23 

Publication: The National Air and Space Museum, a lavishly illustrated book 
by award-winning journalist C. D. B. Bryan, was published. 

October 24 

Exhibitions: The Great Crash opened at the National Portrait Gallery, and 
After the Crash opened at the National Collection of Fine Arts, both com- 
memorating the fiftieth anniversary of the stock market collapse and the onset 
of the Great Depression. 

Audiovisual Release: "Demonstration of a technique for glueing a thin warped 
wood panel," a videotape for conservators and museum personnel, was pro- 
duced by Conservation Information Programs of the Conservation Analytical 
Laboratory. 

October 26 

Symposium: Five pioneers of jet aviation participated in an all-day symposium 
at the National Air and Space Museum to mark the fortieth anniversary of the 
jet age. All illustrated book containing the lectures plus five additional articles 
was published. 

October 27-28 

Concert Series: Mel Lewis and the Jazz Orchestra played a concert of big band 
music in the first performance of the American Jazz Heritage Series offered 
by the Division of Performing Arts. 

October 28-31 

Symposium: The Office of Museum Programs sponsored an international sym- 
posium on Children in Museums. 

October 29 

Concert Series: Guest violinist Jaap Schroder and the Smithsonian Chamber 
Players opened the Three Centuries of Chamber Music Series presented by 
the Division of Performing Arts. 

November 

Delegation: Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs, led a 
delegation to China at the invitation of the Scientific and Technical Associa- 
tion of the People's Republic of China to lay the groundwork for scholarly 
cooperation in biology, archeology, and museum professional exchanges. 

New Program: The Office of Biological Conservation assumed responsibility 
for administration of the Seychelles Island Foundation. 

Parking: Paid parking for staff and others using Smithsonian facilities was 
inaugurated. 

Education: Special Education Teachers' Day was held at the Office of Ele- 
mentary and Secondary Education. 

Discovery: National Museum of Natural History paleobiologist Dr. Storrs 
Olson and colleague reported — in Science magazine — discovery of a previously 
unknown fossil group of giant, flightless penguinlike birds. 

Research: An interdisciplinary study on "Nutrient Dynamics of the Rhode 
River" was initiated by Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies 
scientists, with funding by the National Science Foundation through the 
Chesapeake Research Consortium. 

Acquisition: The Pabst Orchid Collection was donated to the Smithsonian. 



348 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



November 2 

Acquisition: A major collection of Chinese calligraphy was purchased by the 
Freer Gallery of Art under the recently instituted five-year Regents program 
for acquisitions of outstanding quality. 

Concert Series: Traditional solo dances from the Peking Opera were per- 
formed by Hu Hung-Yen in the opening performance of the World Explorer 
Series, sponsored by the Division of Performing Arts. 

November 3 

Traveling Exhibition: Jacob Jordaens: Drawings and Prints began its United 
States tour at Arapahoe Community College Gallery of Art, Littleton, 
Colorado. 

November 7 

New Program: First guided visit to Barney Studio House of the National Col- 
lection of Fine Arts took place. Barney House has been renovated to evoke 
its original mood and intent as a place of artistic enjoyment. 

November 8 

Awards: Archives of American Art marked its twenty-fifth anniversary. The 
first Archives Awards were presented to five scholars for their writings, over 
a fifty-year period, on fine arts, graphic arts, and decorative arts. Honorees 
received copies of the Archives' four-volume Arts in America: A Bibliography, 
published this year by the Smithsonian Institution Press. 

November 9 

Exhibition: A Decade of Discovery: Selected Acquisitions, 1970-1980 opened 
at the Freer Gallery of Art. 

November 11 

Exhibition: Robert Edge Pine: A British Portrait Painter in America, 1784- 
1788, featuring 38 portraits by this little-studied artist of the early Federal 
period, opened at the National Portrait Gallery. 

November 12 

Concert Series: Martin Pearlman performed a program of French harpsichord 
music in the opening concert of the Hall of Musical Instruments Series offered 
by the Division of Performing Arts. 

November 13 

Course: The first lecture was given of a five-week series, "Beyond Fashion: 
Costumes for Stage and Life," featuring America's top costume designers. 
The series was organized by the Resident Associate Program. 

November 14 

Awards: A total of nine cine Golden Eagle Certificates were presented at the 
Council on International Nontheatrical Events ceremonies to the principal 
production staff of the Office of Telecommunications and the Motion Picture 
Unit of the Office of Exhibits Central for the films Mirrors on the Universe: 
The MMT Story and Reunions: Memories of an American Experience. 

November 17 

Special Event: A Tri-Museum Experience of African and Afro-American his- 
tory took place at the Museum of African Art, Anacostia Neighborhood 
Museum, and National Museum of History and Technology. 



Chronology I 349 



November 18 

Exhibition: Old Master Paintings from the Collection of Baron Thyssen- 
Bornemisza opened at the National Gallery of Art. 

November 20 

Broadcast: Radio Smithsonian, the Office of Telecommunications' weekly half- 
hour program increased its audience to include stations in Dallas, Atlanta, 
San Diego, and Boston. 

November 25 

Expedition: A two-week Panama Orchid Expedition was undertaken by Smith- 
sonian representatives James R. Buckler, Paul E. Desautels, Jeffrey Ploskonka, 
and Robert Read. 

November 30 

Exhibition: The National Collection of Fine Arts marked the opening of the 
retrospective exhibition Hugo Robus (1885-1964), which included a group of 
oils never before shown. 

December 

Special Event: "Hirshhorn Holiday," a family event with skits, music, cartoons, 
and animated films was celebrated at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture 
Garden. 

Kwanza: The seven-day celebration based on African festivals of thanksgiving 
was celebrated throughout the month at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum 
and the Museum of African Art. 

Deaf Awareness Week: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education 
sponsored the Smithsonian / Kendall School program for the Martin Luther 
King Library. 

New Materials: The Rare Book Box, a slide show, and The Museum Bracket- 
maker, a videotape, were released by the Office of Museum Programs. 

December 5 

Broadcast: Smithsonian Galaxy features, produced by the Office of Telecom- 
munications, increased distribution to 122 radio stations around the country. 

December 6 

Exhibition: The Drawings of Morris Louis, with 57 drawings shown for the 
first time, opened at the National Collection of Fine Arts. 

December 8 

Latino Day: A day of educational activities in Spanish for the Hispanic com- 
munity was sponsored by the National Zoo. 

December 9 

Exhibition: Italian Drawings in The Art Institute of Chicago opened at the 
National Gallery of Art. 

December 14 

Holiday Exhibition: The Office of Horticulture produced the Trees of Christ- 
mas at the National Museum of History and Technology, and provided holi- 
day decorations throughout the Smithsonian museums. 



350 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



December 26-31 

Special Event: A traditional holiday celebration reflecting the customs of 
Christmas and Hanukkah, cosponsored by the Division of Performing Arts 
and the National Museum of History and Technology, opened with seasonal 
music, crafts, performances, and demonstrations. 

December 27 

Concert Series: The Smithsonian Jazz Repertory Ensemble made its debut at 
Carnegie Hall in the first performance of the New York Series presented by 
the Division of Performing Arts. 

January 1980 

Appointment: Dr. Richard S. Fiske was appointed director of the National 
Museum of Natural History. 

Exhibition: The Regional Events Program of the Smithsonian National Asso- 
ciate Program organized Beyond the Ocean, Beneath a Leaf, an exhibition 
of nature photography by Museum of Natural History's Kjell Sandved at the 
Science Museum and Planetarium of Palm Beach County, in conjunction with 
a week-long series of lectures for members. 

Program: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education sponsored the 
"Exploring the Smithsonian" program with the District of Columbia public 
schools. 

Lecture Series: "Exploring Space with Astronomers," a monthly lecture series, 
began at the National Air and Space Museum, bringing well-known astrono- 
mers into contact with the public under the stars of the museum's planetarium. 

Performances: "Saturday Live," a series of varied musical programs, began its 
schedule for Saturday afternoons in the Hall of Musical Instruments at the 
National Museum of History and Technology. 

January 4 

Exhibition: Howard Chandler Christy, a small collection of works and memo- 
rabilia highlighting the career of the creator of the famous "Christy Girl," 
opened at the National Portrait Gallery. 

January 10 

Seminar: A seminar on black military pilots held at the National Air and Space 
Museum brought together some well-known World War II black flyers, 
including B. O. Davis, the United States Air Force's first black general. 

January 13 

Broadcast: The Office of Telecommunications' Radio Smithsonian celebrated 
its tenth anniversary on the air with a special program chronicling many of 
the changes that have taken place at the Institution over the past decade. The 
program is now broadcast over sixty stations nationwide with a potential 
listening audience of six million. 

January 14 

Concert Series: The American Dance Experience Series of the Division of Per- 
forming Arts opened with a performance by Melvin Deal and the African 
Heritage Dancers and Drummers. 

January 18 

Telecast: The first cable telecast of Smithsonian films, Celebrating a Century 
and The Smithsonian Institution with S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, were aired 



Chronology I 351 



through arrangements between the Office of Telecommunications and the 
Appalachian Community Service Network. 

January 22 

Exhibition: The Oceanliner: Speed, Style, Symbol, a popular and nostalgic 
show, opened at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York. 

January 23 

Lecture: Edward C. Stone, project scientist of nasa's Voyager program was the 
National Air and Space Museum's third annual Wernher von Braun lecturer. 

January 30 

Conference: Songleaders, ensembles, cultural activists, and documentors of the 
Civil Rights movement gathered for the first major review of the cultural data 
generated by the movement. A photography exhibition highlighted the five- 
day conference, sponsored by the Division of Performing Arts. 

February 

Appointment: Phillip S. Hughes assumed the position of Under Secretary of 
the Institution. 

Quadrangle Development: The Boston firm of Shepley Bulfinch Richardson 
and Abbot was selected to complete the design concept for the project pre- 
pared by Junzo Yoshimura. The design received general approval from the 
Commission of Fine Arts on April 8, 1980. 

Colloquium: The Muses Flee Hitler, a colloquium in honor of Albert Einstein 
during the centennial of his birth, was jointly sponsored by the Office of 
Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars and the Joseph Henry Papers. 

Workshops: Five three-day cooperative workshops sponsored by the Office of 
Museum Programs and the Southern Arts Federation were held from February 
to April. Subjects ranged from Fundamentals of Museum Management to 
Soliciting and Administering Grants. 

Exhibition: Out of Africa: From West African Kingdoms to Colonization 
opened at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. Dr. Chancellor Williams, 
eminent historian, educator, and author lectured on ancient West African 
Kingdoms. 

Publications: Mary Cassatt: A Catalogue Raisonne of the Graphic Work, by 
Adelyn Dohme Breeskin, and The Gem Collection, by Paul E. Desautels, were 
published by the Smithsonian Institution Press. 

Series: "Meet the Author" series opened at the Anacostia Neighborhood 
Museum with Mrs. Sharon Bell Mathis, local author of children's books, who 
presented a filmstrip, the popular 100 Penny Box. 

Special Events: Black History Month was observed with extensive activities at 
both the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum and the Museum of African Art. 

February 2 

Exhibition: We'll Never Turn Back opened at the National Museum of History 
and Technology. Sponsored by the Division of Performing Arts and Howard 
University, this show included the work of thirteen photographers of the 
Civil Rights movement. 

Symposium: Ice Age Art: The Roots of Culture was held in conjunction with 
the installation of Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service's exhi- 
bition Ice Age Art at the Dallas Health and Science Museum. The symposium 
was cosponsored by the L. S. B. Leakey Foundation. 



352 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



February 3 

Event: "Sculpture Sunday," held at the National Collection of Fine Arts, in- 
cluded demonstrations of stone carving, sculpture tours of the permanent col- 
lection, and improvisational dance performances exploring three-dimensional 
space. 

February 6 

Exhibition: A Viking Lander, identical to the two that soft-landed on the sur- 
face of Mars in 1976, was placed on display in the Milestones of Flight 
gallery in the National Air and Space Museum. 

February 10 

Event: "Architectural Arts Day," held at the National Collection of Fine Arts — 
whose building was begun in 1836 — included architects designing wood and 
paper architectural layouts, docent-led tours of the building, concerts of nine- 
teenth-century American music, and a neighborhood walking tour. 

Exhibition: American Light: The Luminist Movement, 1850-1875 opened at the 
National Gallery of Art. 

February 14 

Publication: Guide for Disabled People, a new brochure providing information 
on museum access and programs for disabled visitors, was released by the 
Office of Public Affairs to augment the Smithsonian's general information 
brochure. 

February 17 

Exhibition: In Praise of America: Master works of American Decorative Arts, 
1650-1825 opened at the National Gallery of Art. 

February 24 

Exhibition: American Decorative Arts: Renderings from the Index of American 
Design opened at the National Gallery of Art. 

February 25 

Acquisition: Agreement was reached whereby the Smithsonian Institution pur- 
chased, jointly with the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the portraits of George 
and Martha Washington painted from life by Gilbert Stuart. 

February 29 

Exhibition: Ceorg Jensen Silver smithy: 77 Artists, 75 Years, opened at the Ren- 
wick Gallery. The exhibition catalogue was published by the Smithsonian 
Institution Press. 

March 

Exhibition: The S.S. Pussieioillow II, a whimsical machine by British inventor 
and sculptor Rowland Emett, was placed on display in the National Air and 
Space Museum's Flight and the Arts gallery. 

Grants: National Museum Act recipients for special studies and professional 
grants were named. 

Energy Control: A computerized system for monitoring and controlling energy 
consumption in major Smithsonian buildings in Washington was completed. 



Chronology I 353 



March 3 

Exhibition: Waiting for the Hour, dealing with events and personalities sur- 
rounding the formal issuance of Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, opened 
at the National Portrait Gallery. 

March 4 

Seminar: "Modes of Speciation" was given by Dr. Ernst Mayr, Professor 
Emeritus of Harvard University, at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti- 
tute, where Dr. Mayr presented an additional seminar entitled "Three 
Philosophies of Classification." 

March 5 

Concert Series: The Royal Dancers and Musicians of the Kingdom of Bhutan 
appeared in the Division of Performing Art's World Explorer Series. This 
was the group's first tour in the Western Hemisphere. 

March 7 

Special Event: A "Portrait Ball" was held in the Great Hall of the National 
Portrait Gallery, sponsored by the Contributing Membership, Smithsonian 
National Associate Program. 

March 8 

Traveling Exhibition: Sevres Porcelain, a SITES exhibition, opened at The Art 
Institute of Chicago. The accompanying catalogue, done by the Smithsonian 
Institution Press, was the first English-language publication exclusively on 
Sevres porcelain. 

March 13 

Appointments: Dr. William G. Bowen and Carlisle H. Humelsine were ap- 
pointed as citizen members of the Smithsonian Board of Regents. 

March 14 

Exhibition: Office of Horticulture Flower Show exhibit Florafest I opened at 
the United States Botanical Garden. 

March 20 

Exhibition: Miro: Selected Paintings opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and 
Sculpture Garden. The illustrated exhibition catalog by Charles Millard was 
published by the Smithsonian Institution Press. 

Exhibition: Masterworks of Korean Art opened at the Freer Gallery of Art. 

March 22 

Special Event: The fourteenth annual Kite Carnival, with competition and 
prizes, was held on the Washington Monument Grounds under sponsorship 
of the Resident Associate Program. 

March 22-23 

Symposium: A weekend symposium on Nineteenth-Century American Cabi- 
netmakers was cosponsored by the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, and PB Eighty- 
four, a division of Sotheby Parke Bernet Inc. 

March 26 

Exhibition: Early Flight Gallery, a major new exhibition at the National Air 
and Space Museum, opened, recreating a 1913 indoor aeronautical trade 
show. 



354 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



March 29-30 

Exhibition: The Regional Events Program of the Smithsonian National Asso- 
ciate Program presented a two-day exhibition of historic jewelry from the 
National Gem Collection — at the Witte Memorial Museum, San Antonio. 

April 

Agreement: Secretary S. Dillon Ripley visited Cuba and signed a Memorandum 
of Understanding with the Cuban Academy of Sciences restoring scholarly 
exchanges interrupted in 1969 when the United States and Cuba severed 
relations. 

Milestone: Smithsonian magazine marked its tenth anniversary. The magazine 
now has a circulation of 1.8 million subscribers. 

Symposium: Sixteen prominent American anthropologists and historians 
gathered at the National Museum of Natural History for a public symposium 
on the archeology and ethnology of the Plains Indians. 

Exhibition: The Conquest of Land opened at the National Museum of Natural 
History, first phase in a major renovation and redesign of the museum's 
paleontology halls. 

Outreach: An Educational Outreach Program was initiated at the Smithsonian 
Astrophysical Observatory's installation at Mount Hopkins. 

April 1 

Exhibition: The Nation's Attic opened at the National Museum of History and 
Technology with examples of the oddities in Smithsonian collections. 

April 9 

Lecture: Rosamond Bernier, art commentator and personal friend of the artist 
Miro, discussed the master and his work in "Joan Miro: A Personal Account 
by Rosamond Bernier," sponsored by the Resident Associate Program. 

April 10 

Exhibition: Seven Belgian Artists: Selections from the Hirshhorn Museum and 
Sculpture Garden opened at the museum, in connection with the international 
symposium Belgium Today. 

April 14 

Symposium: A symposium commemorating final stages of the project on the 
flora of Panama was held at the University of Panama, with organizational 
and financial support from the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. The 
four-day meeting represented fruition of thirty years of cooperation between 
the Missouri Botanical Garden and stri. 

April 15 

Grant Awards: The Office of Fellowships and Grants designated 1980-81 fel- 
lowship recipients. 

April 17 

Acquisition: Portraits of Jefferson Davis and his wife, Varina Howell, Presi- 
dent and First Lady of the Confederate States of America, were presented lo 
the National Portrait Gallery by their great grandchildren, Varina Webb 
Stewart and Joel A. H. Webb. 

Exhibition: Alexandra Exter: Marionettes and Theatrical Designs opened at the 
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. 



Chronology I 355 



April 19 

Special Event: "Children's Day: A Turn in Time," an annual day for families, 
was held at the National Collection of Fine Arts. The day included participa- 
tion in glassblowing, sculpting in wax, carving in stone, printmaking, and 
the creating of paper hats and stained glass. 

April 19-20 

Performances: The Regional Events Program of the Smithsonian National 
Associate Program sponsored outdoor performances of American folksongs 
and ballads at the Living History Farms as part of a week-long series of 
events for members in Des Moines. 

April 20 

Symposium: Keynote address by King Baudouin I of the Belgians opened the 
international symposium, Belgium Today, supported by grants from the Na- 
tional Endowment for the Humanities and the National Endowment for the 
Arts, and sponsored by the Resident Associate Program among other groups. 

April 22 

Exhibition: King Baudouin and Queen Fabiola of Belgium previewed the exhi- 
bition, Marionettes in French Belgium Today, at the Renwick Gallery of the 
National Collection of Fine Arts. 

April 25-27 

Special Event: A three-day "Spring Celebration" of clowns, sideshows, and 
acrobats was presented by the Division of Performing Arts and the National 
Museum of History and Technology. 

April 28 

Research Event: National Anthropological Film Center Director E. Richard 
Sorenson and research film specialist Barbara Y. Johnson presented to the 
Royal Nepal Academy "Jyapu: Industrious Productivity as Lifestyle," a pre- 
liminary research report film, Kathmandu, Nepal. 

April 29 

Exhibition: Close Observation: The Oil Sketches of Frederic E. Church opened 
at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York. 

May 

Education: Seventh Annual Teachers' Day was observed at the Office of Ele- 
mentary and Secondary Education. 

Publication: The Office of Biological Conservation participated in the United 
States Interagency Task Force on Tropical Forests that produced a report on 
"The World's Tropical Forests: A Policy, Strategy, and Program for the 
United States." 

Special Event: The beginning of the Year of the Monkey was noted with an 
exhibition of monkeys in Chinese and Japanese art at the Freer Gallery 
of Art. 

Special Event: "The Return of Dom Pedro II," a procession on the National 
Mall and demonstration of African, Brazilian, and Indian cultural elements in 
American society, featured Jonas dos Santos and was sponsored by the 
Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars. 



356 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



May 1 

Exhibition: American Portrait Drawings, 96 drawings by 75 artists including 
Benjamin West, James A. McN. Whistler, and Willem de Kooning opened at 
the National Portrait Gallery. 

Special Event: Symposium entitled Lessons from Vietnam featured journalist/ 
historians discussing the military, political, and social implications of the 
Vietnam War. This event was sponsored by the Resident Associate Program. 

May 3-4 

Zoo Workshop: The Regional Events Program of the Smithsonian National As- 
sociate Program organized a two-day workshop at the John Ball Park Zoo in 
Grand Rapids to aid the zoo in establishing a permanent animal education 
facility. 

May 4 

Opening: The North American Mammals exhibit opened at the National Zoo. 
May 5 

Colloquium: The Pursuit of Knowledge was presented by the first three recipi- 
ents of Regents Fellowships. This Regents Fellows Colloquium was sponsored 
by the Office of Fellowships and Grants. 

May 5-7 

Workshop: The Native American Museum Training Program conducted the 
second annual national workshop for the North American Indian Museums 
Association in Phoenix, Arizona. 

May 8 

Award: The Smithsonian Associate newsletter was presented with the Metro- 
politan Area Mass Media (mamm) award for excellence in locally produced 
educational publications by the American Association of University Women. 
The newsletter is published monthly by the Resident Associate Program. 

Exhibition: Chinese Calligraphy opened at the Freer Gallery of Art. 

Concert Series: The 20th Century Consort performed in Alice Tully Hall, as 
part of the New York Concert Series presented by the Division of Performing 
Arts, with special guest Hermione Gingold. 

May 9 

Exhibition: Screenings of a new program "New Eyes on the Universe" began 
in the National Air and Space Museum's Albert Einstein Spacearium. 

May 13 

Event: Honors Ceremony for 1979-80 Smithsonian Fellows was held by the 
Office of Fellowships and Grants. 

May 14 

Symposium: Preservation: Reusing America's Energy, exploring how to save 
energy in the built environment through historic preservation, was held under 
sponsorship of the Resident Associate Program. 

May 15 

Lecture: Paul B. McCready was the National Air and Space Museum's third 
annual Grierson Memorial lecturer. Dr. McCready designed the first human- 
powered aircraft, the Gossamer Condor, and the first human-powered aircraft 
to fly the English Channel, the Gossamer Albatross. 



Chronology I 357 



May 17-18 

Special Event: Artificial insemination of the female giant panda, Ling-Ling, 
was unsuccessfully attempted after repeated efforts at natural breeding failed. 

May 18 

Exhibition: Japanese Fans opened at the Freer Gallery of Art. 

May 22 

Exhibition: The Fifties: Aspects of Painting in New York opened at the 
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. 

May 24-25 

Concert Series: An all-Ellington evening was performed by the Smithsonian 
Jazz Repertory Ensemble in a Jazz Heritage Series concert presented by the 
Division of Performing Arts. 

May 25 

Exhibition: Post-Impressionism: Cross-Cur rents in European and American 
Painting, 1880-1906 opened at the National Gallery of Art. 

May 27 

Library Tour: A "Collectors Tour" of the Dibner Library of the History of 
Science and Technology, honoring Dr. Bern Dibner and led by him, was spon- 
sored by the Contributing Membership, Smithsonian National Associate 
Program. 

May 28-30 

Workshop: The Native American Museum Training Program conducted the 
Northern Plains Regional workshop in Cody, Wyoming. 

June 

Expedition: Secretary Ripley took part in the Chinese Academia Sinica Sym- 
posium on the Qinghai-Xizang (Tibet) Plateau and in a survey of the 
plateau itself. 

Volcano Watch: National Museum of Natural History volcanologists held two 
illustrated public briefings on the Mount Saint Helens eruption, drawing near- 
capacity crowds to Baird Auditorium. 

Education: Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies held its second 
annual "Afternoon Behind the Scenes" community open house featuring 
"hands on" activities at the dock, field tours with scientists, research briefs, 
and slide overviews. 

Milestone: Complete conversion of the Smithsonian Institution's telephone 
system to new equipment, including a change of numbers for all bureaux and 
offices, was effected. 

June 2 

Dedication: National Air and Space Museum's Silver Hill Facility was re- 
named the Paul E. Garber Facility in honor of nasm's Historian Emeritus. 
Mr. Garber joined the Smithsonian in 1920 and was responsible for acquiring 
a large portion of its aeronautical collection. 

June 3 

Broadcast: The Office of Telecommunications' Smithsonian Galaxy increased 
distribution to 168 stations in forty states and the Canadian Forces Network 
in Germany. 



358 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Reauthorization: The National Museum Act was reauthorized for fiscal years 
1981 and 1982. 

June 4 

Exhibition: Brancusi as Photographer opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and 
Sculpture Garden. 

Exhibition: Across the Nation: Fine Art for Federal Buildings, 1972-1979, 
opened at the National Collection of Fine Arts. 

June 5 

Exhibition: Zelda and Scott: The Beautiful and Damned, 72 items featuring 
portraits, manuscripts, and memorabilia of the Fitzgeralds, went on display 
at the National Portrait Gallery. 

June 10 

Exhibition: Hair, a show with some 350 objects on the history of hair styles, 
opened at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York. 

Special Event: Cooper-Hewitt Museum participated in "Museum Mile," a 
street festival and celebration by New York's cultural institutions on Fifth 
Avenue; the Avenue was closed to traffic between 86th Street and 106th Street 
from 7:00 to 9:00 P.M. 

June 11-15 

Performances: The Office of Folklife Programs sponsored a sequence of folk 
puppetry performances on the National Mall and a scholarly conference on 
world traditions in folk puppetry in the National Museum of History and 
Technology. These activities were scheduled in conjunction with the 13th 
World Congress of unima (L'Union Internationale de la Marionnette), held 
for the first time in the Western Hemisphere. 

June 14 

Special Event: Seventh Annual Boomerang Throw, with workshops and com- 
petition, took place on the National Mall under sponsorship of the Resident 
Associate Program. 

June 17, 22 

Study: The Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center cooperated 
with the Department of Urban and Regional Planning of the George Wash- 
ington University to study the need for auxiliary transportation between Na- 
tional Mall museums for visitors with ambulatory difficulties. 

June 19 

Ecology Project: Six young peregrine falcons were placed on the tower of 
the Smithsonian Institution Castle Building in a project of the Peregrine Fund 
at Cornell University in an attempt to reestablish a wild breeding population 
of these falcons on the east coast. 

Exhibition: Thomas Wilmer Dewing opened at the Freer Gallery of Art. 
July 

New Directions: Federal Equal Opportunity Recruitment Program was ap- 
proved by Secretary Ripley and issued for implementation. 

Program: "How Children Learn a Sense of Justice," presentation in the con- 
tinuing series on "Voluntarism and the Public Interest in American Society," 
was cosponsored by the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars and 
the Child and Family Justice Project of the National Council of Churches. 



Chronology I 359 



Redesign: Torch, the Smithsonian's in-house newspaper now in its 26th year, 
was redesigned to update its appearance and enhance its usefulness and 
readability. 

Publication: A Bestiary for Saint Jerome, a distinguished work of scholarship 
by a former Smithsonian scholar, was published by the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Press. 

Research: The Office of Biological Conservation completed a preliminary study 
of the deforestation occurring in Sabah (North Borneo) and resultant asso- 
ciated threats to the environment. 

Education: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education held national 
teacher workshops and also conducted summer programs for hearing-impaired 
children. 

Julyl 

Exhibition: A mini-exhibition of eighteen paintings by noted space artist 
Chesley Bonestell was put on display in the Independence Lobby of the 
National Air and Space Museum. 

July 3-6 

Special Event: A traditional Fourth of July Celebration, cosponsored by the 
National Museum of History and Technology and the Division of Performing 
Arts, featured music, demonstrations, films, and special tours. 

July 4 

Opening: Gilbert Stuart's portraits of George and Martha Washington went 
on display at the National Portrait Gallery. 

Exhibition: Unsuccessful Candidates for the Presidency, 1912-1976 opened at 
the National Portrait Gallery. 

July 7 

Evaluation: Status report on the Multiple Mirror Telescope's performance was 
presented to a professional meeting of astronomers and the instrument was 
hailed for its "high resolution" and the Mount Hopkins site's "exceptional 
seeing." 

July 10 

Opening: The Naos Seawater System was inaugurated by Smithsonian Tropi- 
cal Research Institute Director Dr. Ira Rubinoff and Panamanian President 
Dr. Aristides J. Royo Ruiz; present also was Acting Smithsonian Secretary 
Phillip S. Hughes. 

July 14 

Exhibition: Two Centuries of Japanese Ceramics, 1550-1750 opened at the 
Freer Gallery of Art. 

July 14-18 

Workshop: A five-day workshop for museum archivists was sponsored by the 
Smithsonian Archives. 

July 23 

Exhibition Opening: A Victorian Horticultural Extravaganza, the first Smith- 
sonian horticulture exhibit, opened in the Arts and Industries Building. 

Presentation: A 1959 Harry Bertoia sculpture symbolizing world communica- 
tions in the atomic age was given to the National Collection of Fine Arts by 
the Zenith Radio Corporation. 



360 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



July 30 
Traveling Exhibition: Western Views and Eastern Visions, a sites exhibition, 
opened at the National Museum of History and Technology. 

August 

Seminar: "Interdisciplinary Seminar on Cultural and Curriculum Resources at 
the Smithsonian Institution," designed for a group of graduate and under- 
graduate students at the University of Hawaii, was sponsored by the Office 
of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars. 

Handicapped Access: A new system of ramps and automated doors went into 
operation at the Constitution Avenue entrance of the National Museum of 
Natural History, giving the museum's handicapped visitors better access to 
the building. 

Acquisition: The Henry Murray estate added 128 acres to the Chesapeake Bay 
Center's landholdings for education and research programs. 

Publication: The Directory of Smithsonian Fellows was issued by the Office of 
Fellowships and Grants. 

August 1 
Renovation: Small Mammal House renovation began at the National Zoo. 

August 7 

Telecast: Reunions: Memories of an American Experience, produced by the 
Office of Telecommunications and the Motion Picture Unit of the Office of 
Exhibits Central, was distributed by satellite to 124 PBS television stations. 

August 13-15 

Workshop: The Native American Museum Training Program conducted the 
West Coast Regional workshop in Seattle, Washington. 

August 18 
Exhibition: Art of the Arab World opened at the Freer Gallery of Art. 

August 21 

Exhibition: New York: The Artist's View opened at the Hirshhorn Museum 
and Sculpture Garden. 

August 22 

Exhibition: Why Not a Woman?, a small exhibition focusing on Belva Ann 
Lockwood, the first woman to practice before the Supreme Court and the 
first woman to mount a formal candidacy for president of the United States, 
opened at the National Portrait Gallery. 

August 31 

Special Event: Frisbee Festival, the largest noncompetitive disc event in the 
world, was held on the National Mall by the National Air and Space Museum. 

Exhibition: The Morton C. Neumann Family Collection went on view at the 
National Gallery of Art. 

September 

Education: Cooperative Education Program's first minority work-study stu- 
dents arrived at the Smithsonian to begin their respective programs. 

September 2 

Exhibition: Electroworks, a show of some 250 works tracing the development 
of copy machine art, opened at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York. 



Chronology I 361 



September 4 

Exhibition: Ancient Chinese Jades opened at the Freer Gallery of Art. 

September 6 

Special Event: An all-day symposium on ufo's with panel members, both pro- 
ponents and skeptics, discussing thirty years of ufo investigation was spon- 
sored by the Resident Associate Program. 

September 8 

Pilot Program: First year began of the Smith College / Smithsonian Institution 
Program in American Studies. 

September 12 

Traveling Exhibition: Berlin Porcelain, a sites exhibition, began its United 
States tour at the Renwick Gallery. 

September 18 

Exhibition: Edwin Dickinson: Selected Landscapes opened at the Hirshhorn 
Museum and Sculpture Garden. 

Exhibition and Symposium: A symposium on Modern American Woodcuts 
was held at the National Collection of Fine Arts in conjunction with its exhi- 
bition, Max Weber: Prints and Color Variations. 

September 21 

Award: Caryl P. Haskins, scientist, educator, and author, was awarded the 
Joseph Henry Medal in recognition of his contributions to the Smithsonian 
Institution as a Regent for more than twenty-four years. 

September 23 

Film: The Office of Telecommunications' A Sense of Discovery, The National 
Collection of Fine Arts was completed. 

Exhibition: In Touch: Printing and Writing for the Blind in the 19th Century 
opened at the National Museum of History and Technology. 

September 26 

Event: The James Smithson Society held its annual banquet and presented 
awards. 

September 29-30 

Seminar: "Ceramics as Archeological Material," organized by the Conserva- 
tion Analytical Laboratory in association with the National Measurement 
Laboratory of the National Bureau of Standards, was one of a continuing 
series on the general subject of the application of the materials and measure- 
ment sciences to archeology and museum conservation. 

September 30 

Film Release: Dragon of the Trees: The Green Iguana, an animal behavior 
film produced by the Office of Telecommunications, was released. 

Evaluation: A survey disclosed that articles from the Smithsonian News 
Service, begun in October 1979, were now being published in more than 1425 
newspapers in all fifty states with a combined circulation of 40 million (90 
million potential readers). 



362 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Smithsonian Year • 1980 
APPENDIXES 



Organization Chart page 364 

1. Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and 
Commissions, September 30, 1980 366 

2. Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards 

Made October 1, 1979, through September 30, 1980 374 

3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1980 378 

4. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press 

in Fiscal Year 1980 380 

5. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution 

and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1980 390 

6. Academic and Research Training Appointments 

in Fiscal Year 1980 453 

7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution in 

Fiscal Year 1980 469 

8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1980 491 

9. Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1980 556 

10. The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries, 

September 30, 1980 557 



363 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



AUDITOR 



THE SECRETARY* 

UNDER SECRETARY* 



TREASURER* 

Accounting Office 

Office of Grants and Risk Management 

Investment Accounting Division 

Business Management Office 

Concessions 

Mail Order Division 

Smithsonian Museum Shops 



GENERAL COUNSEL* 



Assistant Secretary for 
SCIENCE* 

Chesapeake Bay Center for 

Environmental Studies 
Fort Pierce Bureau 
National Air and Space Museum 
National Museum of Man 

Center for the Study of Man 
National Museum of 

Natural History 
National Zoological Park 
Office of Biological Conservation 
Office of Fellowships and Grants 
Radiation Biology Laboratory 
Smithsonian Astrophysical 

Observatory 
Smithsonian Tropical Research 

Institute 



Assistant Secretary for 
HISTORY AND ART* 

Archives of American Art 
Cooper-Hewitt Museum 
Freer Gallery of Art 
Hirshhorn Museum and 

Sculpture Garden 
Joseph Henry Papers 
Museum of African Art 
National Collection of 

Fine Arts 

Renwick Gallery 
National Museum of 

History and Technology 
National Portrait Gallery 
Office of American and 

Folklife Studies 



Assistant Secretary for 
MUSEUM PROGRAMS* 

Conservation Analytical 

Laboratory 
National Museum Act 
Office of Exhibits Central 
Office of Horticulture 
Office of International 

Activities 
Office of Museum Programs 
Office of the Registrar 
Smithsonian Archives 
Smithsonian Institution 

Libraries 
Smithsonian Institution 

Traveling Exhibition 
Service 



Secretary's Executive Committee 



r 



-i 



L 



r 



Under Separate Boards of Trustees: 

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER , 

FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART I 

WOODROW WILSON 

INTERNATIONAL CENTER 

FOR SCHOLARS 



SMITHSONIAN 

SCIENCE INFORMATION 

EXCHANGE, INC. 



l_ 



Coordinator of 

PUBLIC INFORMATION* 

Office of Congressional Liaison 
Office of Public Affairs 
Office of Special Events 



Director of 

MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT* 

Development Office 
Smithsonian National Associate 

Program 
Smithsonian Resident Associate 

Program 



Assistant Secretary for 
PUBLIC SERVICE* 

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum 
Division of Performing Arts 
International Exchange Service 
Office of Elementary and Secondary 

Education 
Office of Smithsonian Symposia and 

Seminars 
Office of Telecommunications 
Smithsonian Exposition Books 
Smithsonian Institution Press 
Smithsonian Magazine 
Visitor Information and Associates' 

Reception Center 



Assistant Secretary for 
ADMINISTRATION* 

Office of Computer Services 
Contracts Office 
Office of Equal Opportunity 
Office of Facilities Services 

Office of Design and Construction 

Office of Plant Services 

Office of Protection Services 
Management Analysis Office 
Office of Personnel Administration 
Office of Printing and Photographic 

Services 
Office of Programming and Budget 
Office of Supply Services 
Travel Services Office 



APPENDIX 1. Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, 
and Commissions, September 30, 1980 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BOARD OF REGENTS 

Warren E. Burger, The Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Chancellor" 
Walter F. Mondale, The Vice President of the United States, ex officio 

Henry M. Jackson, Senator from Washington 
Barry Goldwater, Senator from Arizona 
Robert B. Morgan, Senator from North Carolina 

Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts 
Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California 
Frank Thompson, Jr., Representative from New Jersey 

Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas 

J. Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia 

William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey 

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York* 

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California 

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania 

Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia* 

James E. Webb, citizen of the District of Columbia** 



SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL 



Gordon N. Ray, 

Chairman 
Dore Ashton 
Milton W. Brown 
Frederick H. Burkhardt 
William H. Davenport 
Anne d'Harnoncourt 
Richard M. Dorson 
A. Hunter Dupree 



Frank B. Golley 
Stephen Jay Gould 
Neil Harris 
August Heckscher 
Nathan I. Huggins 
Ada Louise Huxtable 
George F. Lindsay 
Peter Marler 
Ruth Patrick 



David R. Pilbeam 
Vera C. Rubin 
Carl E. Sagan 
Carl E. Schorske 
Andre Schiffrin 
Gunther Schuller 
Barbara W. Tuchman 



ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES 



Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, 

Chairman 
Mr. Gilbert H. Kinney, 

President 
Mrs. Nancy B. Negley, 

Vice President 
Mr. A. Alfred Taubman, 

Vice President 



Mr. Henry deForest Baldwin, 

Treasurer 
Mrs. Dana M. Raymond, 

Secretary 
S. Dillon Ripley, 

ex officio 
Charles Blitzer, 

ex officio 



* Member of the Executive Committee. 

** Mr. Webb is Chairman of the Executive Committee. 



366 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Dr. Irving F. Burton 
Mrs. Alvin M. Ferst, Jr. 
Mr. Joel S. Ehrenkranz 
Mrs. Walter B. Ford II 
Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn 
Mr. Irvin A. Levy 
Mr. Howard VV. Lipman 
Mr. Harold O. Love 
Mr. Richard Manoogian 



Mrs. Walter Maynard, Jr. 
Mr. Porter A. McCray 
Dr. Abraham Melamed 
Mrs. William L. Mitchell 
Mrs. Muriel Kallis Newman 
Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro 
Mr. Frederic A. Sharf 
Mrs. Louise Talbot Trigg 
Mr. John Lowell Jones 



FOUNDING TRUSTEES 

Lawrence A. Fleischman 



E. P. Richardson 



Mrs. Edsel B. Ford 



HONORARY TRUSTEES 

Mrs. William L. Richards 



Mr. Russell Lynes 



ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART ADVISORY COMMITTEE 



NEW YORK 

Milton Brown, 

Chairman 
John Baur 

Frederick Cummings 
John Dobkin 
Anne d'Harnoncourt 
William Gerdts 
Lloyd Goodrich 
Eugene Goossen 



James J. Heslin 
John Howat 
James Humphry III 
Bernard Karpel 
John A. Kouwenhoven 
Abram Lerner 
Russell Lynes 
A. Hyatt Mayor 
Barbara Novak 



Clive Phillpot 

Jules D. Prown 

J. T. Rankin 

Marvin Sadik 

Joshua Taylor 

Charles van Ravenswaay 

William B. Walker 

Richard P. Wunder 



NEW ENGLAND 

Harley P. Holden, 

Chairman 
Winslow Ames 
Mr. and Mrs. 

George H. Bumgardner 
Charles Ferguson 
Wolfgang M. Freitag 
Hugh Gourley 



Elton W. Hall 
Patricia Hills 
Sinclair Hitchings 
John Kirk 
William Lipke 
Kenworth Moffett 
Elliott Offner 
James O'Gorman 



Stephen Prokopoff 
Stephen Riley 
Laurence Schmeckebier 
Theodore Stebbins 
Richard Teitz 
Bryant F. Tolles 
Peter Wick 
Margaret Craver Withers 



NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 

Wesley Chamberlin, 

Chairman 
Stanley Andersen 
Joseph Baird 
Herschel Chipp 
Van Deren Coke 
Wanda Corn 



James Elliott 
Albert Elsen 
Alfred Frankenstein 
Lanier Graham 
Henry Hopkins 
Robert Emory Johnson 
Martha Kingsbury 



George Neubert 
Peter Selz 
Kevin Starr 
Don Stover 
Harvey West 
Ian White 



SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 

Donelson Hoopes, 

Chairman 
E. Maurice Bloch 
Carl Dentzel 
Beatrice Farwell 



Burton Fredericksen 
Thomas H. Garver 
David Gebhard 
Constance W. Glenn 
Susan C. Larsen 



Paul Mills 
Earl A. Powell III 
Moira Roth 
Maurice Tuchman 
Robert R. Wark 



Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions I 367 



WASHINGTON, D.C. 

Bernard Mergen, 

Chairman 
Lorraine Brown 
David Driskell 
Lois Fink 



Henry Glassie 
William Homer 
Charles Hummell 
Peter Marzio 
Peter Mooz 



Marc Pachter 
Marvin Sadik 
Phoebe Stanton 
Joshua Taylor 
John Wilmerding 



BOARD OF FELLOWSHIPS AND GRANTS 



Thomas Lawton, 

Chairman 
David Correll 
John Eisenberg 



Richard Fiske 
Roger Kennedy 



David Challinor, 

ex officio 
Charles Blitzer, 

ex officio 



COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM ADVISORY COUNCIL 



August Heckscher, 

Chairman 
Rosemary Corroon 
Joanne DuPont 
Harmon Goldstone 



Karen Keland 
Russell Lynes 
Gilbert C. Maurer 
Kenneth Miller 
Amanda Ross 



Arthur Ross 
Robert Sarnoff 
Marietta Tree 
S. Dillon Ripley, 
ex officio 



FOLKLIFE ADVISORY COUNCIL 



Wilcomb E. Washburn, 

Chairman 
Roger Abrahams 
Richard Ahlborn 
Richard Dorson 



William Fitzhugh 
Lloyd Herman 
Robert Laughlin 
Scott Odell 



Ralph Rinzler 
Peter Seitel 
Richard Sorenson 
Thomas Vennum 



FREER VISITING COMMITTEE 



Mrs. Jackson Burke 
Kwang-chih Chang 
Marvin Eisenberg 
Murray Gell-Mann 



Katharine Graham 
Norman Y. Mineta 
John M. Rosenfield 
Hugh Scott 



Laurence Sickman 
Priscilla P. Soucek 
John S. Thacher 
Richard Weatherhead 



HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES 



Daniel P. Moynihan, 

Chairman 
Sydney Lewis, 

Vice Chairman 



Leigh B. Block 
Anne d'Harnoncourt 
Thomas M. Evans 



Jerome Greene 
Olga Hirshhorn 
Dorothy C. Miller 



Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio 
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio 
Joseph H. Hirshhorn, Trustee Emeritus 



HORTICULTURE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 



Jimmie L. Crowe 
Belva Jensen 



Carlton Lees 
Donald Parker 



ORCHID SUBCOMMITTEE 

Paul Desautels 



Robert Read 



Robert Read 



Mary Ripley 



368 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



JOINT SPONSORING COMMITTEE FOR THE PAPERS 
OF JOSEPH HENRY 



Frederick Seitz, 

Chairman 
Whitfield J. Bell, Jr. 



Lee Anna Blick 
Charles Blitzer 



S. Dillon Ripley 
Henry D. Smyth 



MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART COMMISSION 



Lee Bronson 
Beverly W. Carter 
David Driskell 
John B. Duncan 
Carl Freeman 
S. I. Hayakawa 



Frances Humphrey 

Howard 
Richard Long 
Frank Moss 
Milton Ratnor 
Thomas Schwab 



Roy Sieber 
Walter Washington 
Franklin Williams 
Charles Blitzer, ex officio 
S. Dillon Ripley, ex officio 



MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART NATIONAL COUNCIL 



Joseph James Akston 

Arthur Ashe 

James Avery 

Ernie Barnes 

Saul Bellow 

Julian Bond 

Rep. John Brademas 

Dona Bronson 

Edward W. Brooke 

Joseph Campbell 

Rep. John Conyers 

Ossie Davis 

Lula Dawson 

Rep. Ronald Dellums 

Barbaralee Diamonstein 

Rep. Charles Diggs 

Ofield Dukes 

Joanne duPont 

Ralph Ellison 

John Hope Franklin 

Buckminster Fuller 

James Gibson 

Dick Gregory 

Chaim Gross 

Lily Polk Guest 



Alex Haley 
George Haley 
Eliot Halperin 
Philip Handler 
Geoffrey Holder 
Rep. Frank Horton 
Muriel Humphrey 
David Lloyd Kreeger 
Jacob Lawrence 
Vera List 
J. Bruce Llewellyn 
Stanley Marcus 
Mary McFadden 
Robert McNamara 
Rae Alexander Minter 
Clarence Mitchell 
Rep. Parren Mitchell 
Nancy Negley 
Mace Neufeld 
Dorothy Porter 
Vincent Price 
Benjamin Quarles 
Milton Ratner 
Michael Rea 
Saunders Redding 



John Reinhardt 
Stellita Renchard 
Norman B. Robbins 
Harold Rome 
Bayard Rustin 
Senator Hugh Scott 
Stanley Scott 
Evelyn Sessler 
Mabel Smythe 
Michael Sonnenreich 
David Stratmon 
Lynette Taylor 
Anne Teabeau 
Maurice Tempelsman 
Paul Tishman 
Sterling Tucker 
Mike Wallace 
Barbara Watson 
G. Mennen Williams 
Isabel Wilson 
Lester Wunderman 
Elizabeth Bouey Yates 
Andrew Young 
Nicholas Zervas 



NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD 



Mr. S. Dillon Ripley, Chairman 

Mr. Albert P. Albrecht 

Mrs. O. A. Beech 

Brig. Gen. James L. Collins 

Brig. Gen. Archer L. Durham 



Mr. Gerald D. Griff en 

Vice Adm. Wesley L. McDonald 

Lt. Gen. Elwood Quesada, USAF (Ret.) 

Vice Adm. Robert H. Scarborough 

Lt. Gen. William J. White 



NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM VISITING COMMITTEE 



Dr. Alexander H. Flax 
Dr. Gerard K. O'Neill 
Dr. Leon T. Silver 



Lt. Gen. James T. Stewart, 

USAF (Ret.) 
Dr. Richard R. Whitcomb 



Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions I 369 



NATIONAL ANTHROPOLOGICAL FILM CENTER 
ADVISORY COUNCIL 



Sol Tax, 

Chairman 
Matthew Huxley, 

Secretary 
Ira Abrams 
T. Berry Brazelton 
Roma Crocker 
William H. Crocker 
Herbert Di Gioia 



Phoebe Ellsworth 
Gordon Gibson 
Edward T. Hall 
Glenn Harnden 
Stephen P. Hersh 
Paul Hockings 
Bennetta Jules-Rosette 
Peter Marzio 
Constance B. Mellon 



Norman Miller 
Phileo Nash 
Marion Stirling Pugh 
Jerrold Schecter 
Hubert Smith 
George Spindler 
Colin Turnbull 
Carroll W. Williams 
Joan Swayze Williams 



NATIONAL ARMED FORCES MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD 

Clifford J. Alexander, Secretary of the Army 

Edward Hidalgo, Secretary of the Navy 

Hahns Mark, Secretary of the Air Force 

Andrew Goodpaster, Lt. Gen., US Army 

William I. Greener, Jr. 

William H. Perkins, Jr. 

Theodore Ropp 

James M. Stone, Sr. 

Harold Brown, Secretary of Defense, ex officio 

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio 



ADVISORY COUNCIL FOR THE NATIONAL MUSEUM ACT 



Paul N. Perrot, 

Chairman 
George Abrams 
Craig C. Black 



Joel N. Bloom 
Marigene Butler 
Philip S. Humphrey 
Watson Laetsch 



Thomas N. Maytham 
Jan K. Muhlert 
Paul E. Rivard 
F. Christopher Tahk 



NATIONAL BOARD OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES 



William S. Anderson, 

Chairman 
Henry C. Beck, Jr. 
Nicholas F. Brady 
Keith S. Brown 
Mrs. Jackson Burke 
Mrs. Charles H. Clark 
E. Mandell deWindt 
Gaylord Donnelley 
G. Morris Dorrance, Jr. 

HONORARY MEMBERS 

Richard P. Cooley 
Joseph F. Cullman 3rd 
Leonard K. Firestone 
Alfred C. Glassell, Jr. 



James A. Elkins, Jr. 

Gordon Hanes 

Mr. John F. Harrigan 

Richard D. Hill 

Mrs. Henry L. Hillman 

Carla Anderson Hills 

Samuel C. Johnson 

James M. Kemper, Jr. 

Seymour Knox III 

Mrs. Robert A. Magowan 



William A. Hewitt 
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson 
Lewis A. Lapham 
George C. McGhee 



Scott McVay 

John R. Norton III 

George S. Pillsbury 

H. Smith Richardson, Jr. 

Arthur A. Seeligson, Jr. 

David E. Skinner 

Roger B. Smith 

Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr. 

Vernon Taylor, Jr. 

Parke Wright 



Francis C. Rooney, Jr. 
Merritt Kirk Ruddock 
Thomas J. Watson, Jr. 



370 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS COMMISSION 



George B. Tatum, 

Chairman 
Mrs. Hiram W. McKee, 

Vice Chairman 
S. Dillon Ripley, 

Secretary 
Donald Anderson 
Elizabeth Brooke Blake 
Thomas S. Buechner 
Lloyd Goodrich 

HONORARY MEMBERS 

Martin Friedman 
Henry P. Mcllhenny 



Walker Hancock 
R. Philip Hanes, Jr. 
Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr. 
August Heckscher 
Mrs. Robert Homans 
Thomas C. Howe 
Jaquelin H. Hume 
Richard L. Hunt 
David Lloyd Kreeger 
Abram Lerner, ex-officio 



Paul Mellon 
Ogden Pleissner 



Nan Tucker McEvoy 
Philip Pearlstein 
Charles H. Sawyer 
George Segal 
Mrs. Oliver Seth 
Mrs. John Farr Simmons 
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth 
Mrs. Charles Bagley 
Wright 



Edgar P. Richardson 
Andrew Wyeth 



NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY COMMISSION 



Senator Robert Morgan, 

Chairman 1 
Barry Bingham, Sr. 
Thomas Mellon Evans 2 



Katie Louchheim 
Robert L. McNeil, Jr. 
Andrew Oliver 
E. P. Richardson 3 



Robert H. Smith 
Frank Stanton 
Barbara Tuchman 



J. Carter Brown, Director, National Gallery of Art, ex officio 
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio 
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio 

SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM 
ADVISORY COUNCILS 

Archeology and Related Disciplines Advisory Council 

Esin Atil George Dales Daniel M. Neuman 

Bennet Bronson Thomas J. Hopkins Edward Wente 

Astrophysics and Earth Sciences Advisory Council 

Felix Chayes Paul Hodge Thornton Page 

Henry Faul William Klein Victor Szebehely 

George Field William Melson Louis Walter 

Systematic and Environmental Biology Advisory Council 

D. A. Livingston R. Ruibal Richard H. Tedford 

David L. Pawson Beryl B. Simpson Charles A. Triplehorn 

WOMEN'S COMMITTEE OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES 



Mrs. Charles H. Clark, 

Chairman 
Mrs. James M. Collins, 

Vice-Chairman 
Mrs. William S. Mailliard, 

Secretary 



Mrs. Frank B. Clay, 
Assistant Secretary 

Mrs. Parker T. Hart, 
Treasurer 

Mrs. Dudley Owen, 
Assistant Treasurer 



1 Appointed January 28, 1980. 

2 Appointed January 28, 1980. 

3 Resigned August 12, 1980. 



Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions I 371 



Mrs. Donald Alexander 

Mrs. William Alexander 

Mrs. Charles Bartlett 

Mrs. Denton Blair 

Mrs. Philip Bowie 

Mrs. Adelyn Dohme Breeskin 

Mrs. Harrison Brand 

Mrs. Townsend Burden III 

Mrs. Thomas E. Crocker 

Mrs. John Howard Dalton 

Mrs. John Davidge 

Mrs. Randolph A. Frank 

Mrs. John Worden Gill 

Mrs. C. Leslie Glenn 

Mrs. Robert Reed Gray 

Mrs. Karl G. Harr, Jr. 

Mrs. Walter Hodges 

Mrs. Robert Koehler 

Mrs. Archie Lang 

Mrs. J. Noel Macy 

Mrs. Daniel Parker 



Mrs. Jefferson Patterson 

Mrs. Horace White Peters 

Mrs. Malcolm Price 

Mrs. Calvin Raullerson 

Mrs. Edward Rich, Jr. 

Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley 

Mrs. Reynaldo Rodriquez 

Mrs. Peter Russell 

Mrs. John T. Sapienza 

Mrs. Ray Scherer 

Mrs. Leonard Silverstein 

Mrs. Henry P. Smith III 

Mrs. Wells Stabler 

Mrs. James McKim Symington 

Mrs. T. Graydon Upton 

Mrs. Robert D. Van Roijen 

Mrs. Charles Swan Weber 

Mrs. Edwin M. Wheeler 

Mrs. Philip C. White 

Mrs. John Burke Wilkinson 

Mrs. Robert S. Wilkinson 



WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES 



Max M. Kampelman, 

Chairman 
Paul W. McCracken, 

Vice Chairman 
James A. Baker III 
Theodore C. Barreaux 



Daniel J. Boorstin 
Kenneth B. Clark 
Joseph D. Duffey 
Stuart E. Eizenstat 
Patricia Roberts Harris 
Edmund S. Muskie 



Jesse H. Oppenheimer 
John E. Reinhardt 
S. Dillon Ripley 
Anne Firor Scott 
Robert M. Warner 



KENNEDY CENTER BOARD OF TRUSTEES 



Roger L. Stevens, 

Chairman 
Mrs. Howard H. Baker 
Marion Barry* 
K. Le Moyne Billings 
Daniel J. Boorstin* 
Mrs. Edward T. Breathitt 
J. Carter Brown* 
Robert S. Carter 
James C. Corman* 
Mrs. Edward Finch Cox 
Marshall Coyne 
Russell E. Dickenson* 
Mrs. J. Clifford Folger 
Abe Fortas 

Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen 
J. William Fulbright 



Ralph Philip Hanes, Jr. 
Orval Hansen 
Patricia Roberts Harris* 
Mrs. Paul H. Hatch 
Mrs. Bob Hope 
Shirley M. Hufstedler 
Frank Ikard 
Edward M. Kennedy* 
Melvin R. Laird 
Marjorie M. Lawson 
Joseph M. McDade* 
Mrs. J. Willard Marriott 
Ronald H. Nessen 
Charles H. Percy, 
Vice Chairman* 
Mrs. Donna Stone Pesch 
John E. Reinhardt* 



Mrs. Abraham A. Ribicoff 
S. Dillon Ripley* 
Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr. 
William H. Rumsey* 
Mrs. Jouett Shouse 
Mrs. Jean Kennedy Smith 
John G. Spatuzza 
Henry Strong, 

Vice Chairman 
Frank H. Thompson, Jr.* 
Benjamin A. Trustman 
Jack Valenti 

Harrison A. Williams, Jr.* 
Mrs. Jack Wrather 
Mrs. George A. Garrett, 

Honorary Trustee 



* Ex officio 



372 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



President's Advisory Committee on 

Gary Jay Northrop Aamodt 

Clark D. Ahlberg 

Arthur D. Amiotte 

Marlin Arky 

Elizabeth W. Blass 

William L. Bonyun 

Francis T. Borkowski 

Anne Marie Boyden 

Mary Louise Chaney 

Carolyn G. Clark 

Maurice C. Clifford 

Kelly Cohen 

Paul Collins 

Esther Lipsen Coopersmith 

Susanne Shutz Curry 

Henry Cutler 

Mitchell S. Cutler 

George F. Daviglus 

Clarence C. Day 

Patricia O'Reilly Diaz 

Jennie Taber Clarkson Dreher 

Walter J. Dunfey 

Earl Eugene Dyson 

Patricia G. Edington 

Paula H. Elkins 

Elizabeth Evans 

Frank E. Fowler 

Christine Miles Gitlin 

Robert F. Goldhammer 

Sharon Kaye Gowdy 

Carolyn B. Harfenreffer 

Paul Halpern 

Edythe C. Harrison 

Hermene D. Hartman 

Rkhard Heckman 

Ralph Hornblower III 

Ron Hull 

Lela G. Jacobson 

Linda J. Jadwin 

James F. Kelley 

Henry L. Kimelman 

Elise Kuhl Kirk 

Ira McKissick Koger 

Donald S. Lauder 

Daniel Lecht 

Ruth McWilliams Leffall 

Ron M. Linton 

Robert F. Lusk 



the Arts 

Alyne Queener Massey 

Dorothy Watson McClure 

Maureen Mclntyre 

Alice Greene McKinney 

Dorothy Pierce McSweeny 

Jose F. Mendez 

Luis E. Mestre 

Robert I. Millonzi 

G. Joseph Minetti 

Chase Mitchell Mishkin 

Arlene Montgomery Mmahat 

Joan Reed Momjian 

Ana Marta Morales 

Christopher J. Murphy III 

Elizabeth R. Ochenrider 

Patrick J. O'Connor 

Jacqueline D. O'Reilly 

Eduardo J. Padron 

Jographia Pappas 

Elizabeth Petrie 

Paul C. Porter 

Sumner Murray Redstone 

Ann K. Regan 

Barbara B. Rogers 

Marina O. Rubal 

Marjorie B. Runnion 

Fred Rzepka 

Manuel Sanchez 

Milton T. Schaeffer 

Kerin Rodgers Scianna 

Carole J. Shorenstein 

Ted Simon 

Judy Glissen Snowden 

Betty J. Stephens 

Patsy S. Stone 

Herman Sulsona 

Gerald M. Tabenken 

Suzanne Dabney Taylor 

Julio Torres 

Benjamin M. Tucker 

Marta Moreno Vega 

Constance Wahl 

Marcia Webb 

Marcia Simon Weisman 

Rosine McFaddin Wilson 

Connie Wimer 

Martha Sinnard Wright 



NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES 

Paul Mellon, Carlisle H. Humelsine Franklin D. Murphy 

Chairman Ruth Carter Johnson John R. Stevenson 

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio 

Edmund S. Muskie, Secretary of State, ex officio 

G. William Miller, Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio 

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio 



Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 373 



APPENDIX 2. Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program 
Awards Made October 1, 1979, through 
September 30, 1980 



ARCHEOLOGY AND RELATED DISCIPLINES 
(INCLUDING ANTHROPOLOGY) 

American Institute of Indian Studies, Chicago, Illinois. Continued support for 
administration; research fellowships; Center for Art and Archeology; transla- 
tions program; U.S. participation in the International Symposium on Urdu 
Short Stories; U.S. participation in the Second International Conference on 
South Asian Languages and Linguistics; and film documentation of the Krish- 
nattam dance ritual of Kerala (India). 

American Research Center in Egypt, Princeton, New Jersey. Operation of Center 
in Cairo; fellowship program in the study of archeology and related disciplines 
in Egypt; the Middle Commentaries on Aristotle's Organon by Averroes; con- 
tinuation of the architectural and epigraphic survey of Egypt; excavation at 
Mendes; an archeological map of the Theban necropolis; predynastic research 
at Hierakonpolis, excavations at the medieval site of Fustat (Old Cairo); the 
Wadi Tumilat project; and preservation of the records of the Coptic Orthodox 
Church in Egypt. 

American Schools of Oriental Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Excavation 
in salient areas of Punic and Roman Carthage (Tunisia); and publication of 
Roman Carthage materials (India). 

Bernard M. Baruch College, New York, New York. The changing role of the 
district magistrate and/or Deputy Commissioner in India, 1930-1980. 

Brooklyn College, New York, New York. A preliminary restudy of an Indian 
village. 

Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island. Documentation program for tradi- 
tional performance forms in India. 

Dumbarton Oaks Center for Byzantine Studies, Washington, D.C. A corpus of 
the mosaics of Tunisia (Tunisia); and publication (India). 

Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Humayan's tomb (India). 

Herbert H. Lehman College, Bronx, New York. Ethnoarcheology of ceramic 
production and distribution (India). 

Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York. 
Indo-U.S. Fellowship Program. 

Menninger Foundation, Topeka, Kansas. The impact of culture through mater- 
nal behavior on infant development (India). 

Social Science Research Council, New York, New York. U.S. participation in 
U.S.-Indian conference on models and metaphors in Indian folklore. 



374 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. Prehistory of the Western 
Desert, Egypt (Egypt), and publication (India); and U.S. participation in Poznan 
conference on the origin and early development of food-producing cultures in 
Northeast Africa (Poland). 

University of California, Berkeley, California. A study of paleo-climates and 
prehistoric land-use in the Son Valley, Madhya Pradesh (India); and study 
tour on carbon-14 and related archeological techniques (India). 

University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois. The Burmese palace language, non- 
standard Burmese dialects, and the descriptive and comparative linguistics of 
Burmese; Theraveda Buddhism and its subsidiary cults (Burma); and a study 
of Indian parliamentary elections, 1980. 

University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland. The story of medieval Egypt; 
al Maqrizl's topographical history. 

University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. An investigation of 
traditional shipbuilding in India; linguistic archeology of the South Asian sub- 
continent (India); travel of Indian participants in the symposium on ap- 
proaches to social change in South India; and documentation of architectural 
monuments in Pakistan. 

University of Washington, Seattle, Washington. Catalog of Islamic coins 
(Egypt) and travel of Indian participant in AAAS symposium on South Asia. 

University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin. Contemporary South Asian 
civilization films (India). 

Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut. Ethnographic research in the 
highland area, northern Pakistan. 

SYSTEMATIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY 
(INCLUDING PALEOBIOLOGY) 

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, Edgewater, Maryland. U.S. 
participation in the International Wetlands Conference (India). 

Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Anthropological and paleontological 
research into the fossil anthropoid sites of the Egyptian Oligocene. 

Howard University, Washington, D.C. Cenozoic mammals of Pakistan; and 
participation in field conference on Neogene/Quaternary boundary in India. 

Los Angeles County Natural History Museum, Los Angeles, California. Studies 
on foliicolous fungi (Burma). 

Milwaukee Public Museum, Milwaukee Wisconsin. Cenozoic vertebrate pale- 
ontology and stratigraphy of northwestern India. 

Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, Missouri. Biosystematics of the family 
Onagraceae (India). 

National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D.C. Endangered plant 
species of the Sinai (Egypt); U.S. participation in the Third International 
Symposium of Fossil Corals (Poland); and continuation of research on the 
Araceae of southwestern India. 

National Zoological Park, Washington, D.C. Cooperative zoo exchanges (India) ; 
and examination of red panda skeletal collections in Indian museums. 

Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon. An anatomical and systematic 
study of domatia and their mites (India). 



Appendix 2. Foreign Currency Program Awards I 375 



Our Lady of the Lakes University, San Antonio, Texas. Zoogeography of the 
Anostraca of India. 

Pomona College, Pomona, California. The physiology of bamboo flowering and 
reproduction (India). 

Rutgers, The State University, New Brunswick, New Jersey. Participation of 
Indian scientists in the Third Workshop of the International Union of Forestry 
Research. 

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Balboa, Panama. U.S. participation in 
the Mahabaleshwar workshop on the evolution of social behavior (India); and 
webs and web-building behavior of Indian orb-weaving spiders; and social 
biology of Indian wasps. 

Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, Illinois. The occlusal epidemiological 
transition in populations of North India. 

University of California, Davis, California. A comparison of mother and non- 
mother bonnet macaques in captivity and in a natural habitat (India). 

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. A survey of the fossorial am- 
phibians and reptiles of the uplands of the Indian subcontinent; fossil mam- 
mals in Paleocene and Eocene continental sediments of Pakistan; and participa- 
tion in field conference on Neogene/Quaternary boundary in India. 

University of North Carolina, Charlotte, North Carolina. Participation in field 
conference on the Neogene/Quaternary boundary in India. 

Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut. Later Miocene hominoids and origins 
of Hominidae (Pakistan). 



ASTROPHYSICS AND EARTH SCIENCES 

National Air and Space Museum, Washington, D.C. Geomorphological studies 
of the Rajasthan Desert (India). 

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Continua- 
tion of operation of Uttar Pradesh State Observatory/Smithsonian Astro- 
physical Observing Station, Naini Tal, India. Continuation of operation of a 
satellite tracking laser system at the Helwan Observatory in Egypt; and Second 
International Colloquium of Reference Coordinate Systems for Earth Dynamics 
(Poland). 

University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland. Radioastronomical observa- 
tion of the total solar eclipse in India. 

University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon. Participation of U.S. scholars in the 
International Group Discussion/Symposium on Deccan Volcanism and Re- 
lated Basalt Provinces. 

University of Texas, Austin, Texas. On the problem of three bodies (India). 

University of Wisconsin, Fox Valley, Menasha, Wisconsin. An investigation of 
the manuscripts of the Sawai Man Singh II Museum (India). 



MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Museum pro- 
fessional exchange program (India). 



376 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York. 
Project support for Indo-U.S. joint programs; and film preparation, "Mani- 
festations of Siva" (India). 

International Museum of Photography at George Eastman House, Rochester, 
New York. Post-independence photography in India. 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. Participation in workshop on the 
establishment of science museums in Asian countries— Training and Exchange 
(India). 

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Washington, D.C. Fellow- 
ship travel support (Poland). 



Appendix 2. Foreign Currency Program Awards I 377 



APPENDIX 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded 
in Fiscal Year 1980 



SEMINAR/WORKSHOP PROGRAM 

American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee 

Association of Science-Technology Centers, Washington, D.C. 

Children's Museum of Boston, Boston, Massachusetts 

Mountain Heritage Center, Western Carolina University, Cullowhee, 
North Carolina 

Museum of Early Southern Decorative Arts, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 

National Trust for Historic Preservation, Washington, D.C. 

New Mexico Association of Museums, Santa Fe, New Mexico 

Texas Historical Commission, Austin, Texas 

STIPENDS TO INDIVIDUALS FOR CONSERVATION STUDIES 

Diane E. Cabelli, Conservation Center Institute of Fine Arts, New York Uni- 
versity, New York, New York 

Virginia Caswell, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada 

Randall Copeland, US/ICOMOS, Washington, D.C. 

Elisabeth Cornu, The Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, San Francisco, 
California 

Paula M. DeCristofaro, Courtauld Institute of Art, London, England 

Janet Garbarino, Victoria and Albert Museum, London, England 

Karen Garlick, Folger Shakespeare Library, Washington, D.C. 

John Mark Garrison, US/ICOMOS, Washington, D.C. 

Joseph Patrick Hough, US/ICOMOS, Washington, D.C. 

Paul R. Jett, Queen's University, Kingston, Canada 

Holly Maxson, Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 

Kerry Mclnnis, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. 

Lisa Minette Morriss, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada 

Elizabeth Peacock, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada 

Toby Raphael, US/ICOMOS, Washington, D.C. 

Noelle Soren, Missouri Heritage Trust, Inc., Jefferson City, Missouri 

Philip Sykas, The Textile Conservation Centre Limited, Surrey, England 

Eugene York, Mystic Seaport Museum, Inc., Mystic, Connecticut 



378 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



STIPEND SUPPORT FOR GRADUATE/PROFESSIONAL 

EDUCATION AND TRAINING 

Bank Street College of Education, New York, New York 

Conservation Center, New York University, New York, New York 

Cooperstown Graduate Programs, Oneonta, New York 

The University of California, Los Angeles, California 

The University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware 

The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 

The University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 

STIPEND SUPPORT FOR MUSEUM INTERNSHIPS 

Association of Science-Technology Centers, Washington, D.C. 

Fogg Art Museum, Cambridge, Massachusetts 

Minneapolis Institute of Arts, Minneapolis, Minnesota 

Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts 

Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, Missouri 

New York Botanical Garden, Bronx, New York 

New York Zoological Society, Bronx, New York 

Regional Conference of Historical Agencies, Manlius, New York 

The Museums at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, New York 

The University Museum, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 

Yale University Art Gallery, New Haven, Connecticut 

TRAVEL FOR MUSEUM PROFESSIONALS 

Carol Aiken, Corning Museum of Glass, Corning, New York 
William C. Griggs, Panhandle-Plains Historical Museum, Canyon, Texas 
Catherine Kvaraceus, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts 
Mark Rosenthal, Lincoln Park Zoological Gardens, Chicago, Illinois 

SPECIAL STUDIES AND RESEARCH 

Association of Systematic Collections, Lawrence, Kansas 

Mellon Institute, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York 

Rochester Institute of Technology, Rochester, New York 

Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities, Boston, 
Massachusetts 

PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE 

African American Museums Association, Boston, Massachusetts 
American Association of Museums, Washington, D.C. 
American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee 
National Conservation Advisory Council, Washington, D.C. 



Appendix 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded I 379 



APPENDIX 4. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press 
in Fiscal Year 1980 



GENERAL PUBLICATIONS 

TRADE PUBLICATIONS 

Mary Anglemyer, Eleanore R. Seagraves, and Catherine C. LeMaistre. A Search 
for Environmental Ethics: An Initial Bibliography. Sponsored by the Rachel 
Carson Council, Inc. 119 pages, September 16, 1980. $8.95. 

Esin Atil, editor. Turkish Art. 386 pages, 65 color and 221 black-and-white 
illustrations. September 26, 1980. $65.00. 

Don H. Berkebile. Carriage Terminology: An Historical Dictionary. 488 pages, 
1 color and 539 black-and-white illustrations. December 15, 1979. $35.00. 

Purnima Mehta Bhatt. Scholars' Guide to Washington, D.C., for African Stud- 
ies, xiv + 348 pages. March 24, 1980. Cloth: $25.00; paper: $8.95. 

Walter J. Boyne and Donald S. Lopez, editors. The Jet Age: Forty Years of Jet 
Aviation. 190 pages, 213 black-and-white illustrations. October 24, 1979. Cloth: 
$17.50; paper: $7.95. 

Adelyn Dohme Breeskin. Mary Cassatt: A Catalogue Raisonne of the Graphic 
Work. 189 pages, 12 color and 264 black-and-white illustrations. February 14, 
1980. $40.00. 

Roland Wilbur Brown. Composition of Scientific Words. 882 pages. October 
19, 1979. $15.00. 

Herbert Ridgeway Collins. Threads of History: Americana Recorded on Cloth: 
1775 to the Present, iv + 566 pages, 25 color and 1,568 black-and-white illus- 
trations. November 20, 1979. $60.00. 

Paul E. Desautels. The Gem Collection. 77 pages, 45 color and 39 black-and- 
white illsutrations. December 28, 1979. Cloth: $12.50; paper: $6.95. 

Kenneth J. Dillon. Scholars' Guide to Washington, D.C. for Central and East 
European Studies. 350 pages.-April 24, 1980. Cloth: $25.00; paper, $8.95. 

John F. Eisenberg, editor. Vertebrate Ecology in the Northern Neotropics. 271 
pages, 77 black-and-white illustrations. November 28, 1979. Cloth: $17.50; 
paper: $8.95. 

John C. Ewers. The Horse in Blackfoot Culture. Reprint of the Bureau of Amer- 
ican Ethnology Bulletin 159. 374 pages, 50 black-and-white illustrations. May 
19, 1980. Paper: $9.95. 

Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities. Linda C. Coe, Rebecca Denney, 
Anne Rogers, editors. Cultural Directory II: Federal Funds and Services for the 
Arts and Humanities. 256 pages. December 26, 1979. Paper: $7.75. 

Allan A. Hodges and Carol A. Hodges, editors. Washington on Foot. Second 
edition. 202 pages, 124 black-and-white illustrations. July 1, 1980. Paper: $4.25. 



380 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Bernard Karpel, editor. Arts in America: A Bibliography. Four-volume set. 
2,800 pages. December 31, 1979 (volumes 1 and 4); September 8, 1980 (volumes 
2 and 3). $190.00. 

J. Allen Keast and Eugene S. Morton, editors. Migrant Birds in the Neotropics: 
Ecology, Behavior, Distribution, and Conservation. 576 pages, 189 black-and- 
white illustrations. August 25, 1980. Cloth: $27.50; paper: $15.00. 

Hong N. Kim. Scholars' Guide to Washington, D.C. for East Asian Studies. 
xiv + 414 pages. October 11, 1979. Cloth: $19.95; paper: $8.95. 

Cynthia Jaffee McCabe. Fernando Botero. 119 pages, 16 color and 90 black-and- 
white illustrations. December 12, 1979. $20.00. 

Charles W. Millard. Miro: Selected Paintings. 94 pages, 45 color and 16 black- 
and-white illustrations. March 11, 1980. $20.00. 

Robert C. Mikesh. Albatros D.Va: German World War I Fighter, viii + 116 
pages, 10 color and 210 black-and-white illustrations. August 29, 1980. Paper: 

$7.95. 

Richard J. Montali and George Migaki, editors. The Comparative Pathology of 
Zoo Animals. 684 pages, 2 color and 375 black-and-white illustrations. Septem- 
ber 30, 1980. Cloth: $45.00; paper: $25.00. 

Robert W. Nero. Photographs by Robert R. Taylor. The Great Gray Owl: 
Phantom of the Northern Forests. 168 pages, 30 color and 58 black-and-white 
illustrations. September 30, 1980. $17.50. 

Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts. Georg Jensen Silver- 
smithy: 77 Artists, 75 Years. 128 pages, 161 black-and-white illustrations. 
March 17, 1980. Cloth: $20.00; paper: $9.95. 

Bonnie Rowen. Scholars' Guide to Washington, D.C, for Film and Video Col- 
lections, xxii + 283 pages. July 7, 1980. Cloth: $25.00; paper: $8.95. 

William H. Truettner. The Natural Man Observed: A Study of Catlin's Indian 
Gallery. 325 pages, 29 color and 580 black-and-white illustrations. October 10, 
1979. $40.00. 

E. T. Wooldridge, Jr. The P-80 Shooting Star: Evolution of a Jet Fighter. Ill 
pages, 10 color and 158 black-and-white illustrations. November 1, 1979. 
Paper: $5.95. 

TRADE REPRINTS 

Bill Blackbeard and Martin Williams. The Smithsonian Collection of News- 
paper Comics. Third printing. 336 pages, 96 color and 667 black-and-white 
illustrations. August 5, 1980. Cloth: $29.95; paper: $14.95. 

Grace Rogers Cooper. The Sewing Machine: Its Invention and Development. 
Second edition, second printing. 238 pages, 216 black-and-white illustrations. 
December 21, 1979. $20.00. 

TRADE SALE DISTRIBUTION 

K. Oakley, B. Campbell, and T. Molleson, editors. Catalogue of Fossil Homi- 
nids. Part I: Africa; Part II: Europe; Part III: Americas, Asia, Australia. Part I: 
223 pages, 20 plates, 2 maps, 4 figures. Paper: $27.50. Part II: 379 pages, 2 
plates, 15 maps. Paper: $42.50. Part III: 226 pages, 5 plates, 9 maps, 5 figures. 
Paper: $30.00. January 1980. The Set: $87.50. 

Robert Dale Owen. Hints on Public Architecture. 119 pages, 7 plates, 6 illus- 
trations. Limited edition, facsimile bound. $49.50. 



Appendix 4. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications I 381 



ANNUAL REPORTS 

American Historical Association. Annual Report, 1978. viii -f 207 pages. No- 
vember 12, 1979. 

American Historical Association. Annual Report, 1979. viii + 194 pages, Sep- 
tember 30, 1980. 

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies. Annual Report, 1979. 11 
pages. August 18, 1980. 

Office of American and Folklife Studies. Report of the Office of Folklife Pro- 
gram, 1979. 8 pages. August 19, 1980 . 

Office of Membership and Development. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, 1979. 47 pages. September 30, 1980. 

Smithsonian Institution Tropical Research Institute. Annual Report, 1978. 24 
pages, 4 black-and-white illustrations. February 15, 1980. 

Smithsonian Year, 1979. viii + 592 pages, 68 black-and-white illustrations. 
May 1, 1980. 

Smithsonian Year, 1979. Statement by the Secretary, vi + 63 pages. 17 black- 
and-white illustrations. April 28, 1980. 

EXHIBITION CATALOGUES 

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden 

Cynthia Jaffee McCabe. Fernando Botero. 119 pages, 16 color and 90 black-and- 
white illustrations. December 12, 1979. 

Charles Millard. Miro: Selected Paintings. 94 pages, 45 color and 16 black-and- 
white illustrations. March 12, 1980 

Phyllis Rosenzweig. The Fifties: Aspects of Patinting in New York. Ill pages, 
12 color and 60 black-and-white illustrations. May 16, 1980. 

Joe Shannon. Edwin Dickinson: Selected Landscapes. 72 pages, 4 color and 62 
black-and-white illustrations. September 11, 1980. 

Judith Zilczer. Oscar Bluemner : The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden 
Collection. 64 pages, 4 color and 64 black-and-white illustrations. Novem- 
ber 16, 1979. 

National Collection of Fine Arts 

Adelyn Dohme Breeskin. Mary Cassatt: A Catalogue Raisonne of the Graphic 
Work. 189 pages, 12 color and 264 black-and-white illustrations. December 
1979. 

Diane Upright Headley. The Drawings of Morris Lewis. 141 pages, 1 color and 
657 black-and-white illustrations. December 4, 1979. 

Virginia M. Mecklenburg. Across the Nation: Fine Arts for Federal Buildings. 
35 pages, 95 black-and-white illustrations. June 23, 1980. 

. John R. Grabach: Seventy Years an Artist. 47 pages, 6 color and 17 

black-and-white illustrations. May 20, 1980. 

Patterson Simms, Merry A. Foresta, Dorothy Dehner, and Janet A. Flint. Jan 
Matulka, 1890-1972. 104 pages, 3 color and 81 black-and-white illustrations. 
January 30, 1980. 

Roberta K. Tarbell. Hugo Robus (1885-1964). 240 pages, 3 color and 312 black- 
and white illustrations. June 4, 1980. 



382 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



National Museum of History and Technology 

An Engraver's Pot-Pourri: Life and Times of a Nineteenth-Century Bank-Note 
Engraver. 14 pages, 6 black-and-white illustrations. November 5, 1979. 

National Portrait Gallery 

Marvin Sadik and Harold Francis Pfister. American Portrait Drawings. 216 
pages, 96 black-and-white illustrations. April 21, 1980. 

Robert G. Stewart. Robert Edge Pine, A British Portrait Painter in America, 
1784-1788. 127 pages, 71 black-and-white illustrations. October 18, 1979. 

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service 

Winfried Baer. Berlin Porcelain. 96 pages, 16 color and 45 black-and-white 
illustrations. September 12, 1980. 

Tamara Preaud. Sevres Porcelain. 96 pages, 14 color and 38 black-and-white 
illustrations. March 5, 1980. 

EXHIBITION CHECKLISTS 

Freer Gallery of Art. Art of the Court of Shah Tahmasp. 4 pages, 6 black-and- 
white illustrations. December 6, 1979. 

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden [Cynthia Jaffee McCabe] Hans 
Richter's Stalingrad (Victory in the East). 6 pages, 4 black-and-white illustra- 
tions. February 1, 1980. 

National Collection of Fine Arts. Birds: Works from the 1979 Annual Exhibi- 
tion of Art Depicting Birds. 4 pages, 6 black-and-white illustrations. Janu- 
ary 22, 1980. 

. Hugo Robus (1885-1964). 12 pages, 3 black-and-white illustrations. 

November 26, 1980. 

. Man and Beast: The Washington Print Club Eighth Biennial Members' 

Exhibition. 8 pages, 10 black-and-white illustrations. September 4, 1980. 

. Max Weber: Prints and Color Variations. 16 pages, 6 black-and-white 

illustrations. June 23, 1980. 

. Prints for the People: Selections from New Deal Graphics Projects. 6 

pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. October 18, 1979. 

. Romaine Brooks (1874-1970). Prepared for the Ramapo Consortium of 

Colleges and Universities. 4 pages, 3 black-and-white illustrations. Septem- 
ber 5, 1980. 

. William H. Johnson (1901-1970). Prepared for the Ramapo Consortium 

of Colleges and Universities. 4 pages, 2 black-and-white illustrations. Septem- 
ber 5, 1980. 

National Portrait Gallery. The Great Crash. 16 pages, 13 black-and-white illus- 
trations. October 1, 1979. 

Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts. Traditional Mario- 
nettes in French Belgium Today. 4 pages, 5 black-and-white illustrations. 
April 17, 1980. 

BOOKS 

National Museum of Natural History 

Karl V. Krombein, Paul D. Hurd, Jr., David R. Smith, and B. D. Burks. Catalog 
of Hymenoptera in America North of Mexico. Three volumes. Volume 1 : Sym- 
phyta and Apocrita (Parasitica), xvi + 1,198 pages. Volume 2: Apocrita (Acu- 
leata). xvi + pp. 1,199-2,210. Volume 3: Indexes, xxx + pp. 2,211-2,735. 



Appendix 4. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications I 383 



Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies 

Roy Simon Bryce-Laporte. Sourcebook on the New Immigration: Book II (Sup- 
plement), xxi + 302 pages. 

Lucy M. Cohen. Culture, Disease, and Stress among Latino Immigrants, xxvii 
+ 315 pages. July 10, 1980. 

Stephen R. Couch and Roy Simon Bryce-Laporte, editors. Quantitative Data 
and Immigration Research, xxxiv + 297 pages. July 10, 1980. 

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service 

Douglas Mazonowicz. On the Rocks: The Story of Prehistoric Pictures. 32 
pages, 33 black-and-white illustrations. February 4, 1980. 

BOOKLETS 

National Museum of History and Technology. The First Ladies Hall. Revised 
reprint. 12 pages, 9 color and 48 black-and-white illustrations. August 1, 1980. 

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration. Smithsonian Institution 
Quadrangle Development. 24 pages, 30 black-and-white illustrations. Septem- 
ber 19, 1980. 

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education. Let's Go to the Smithsonian: 
Learning Opportunities for Schools, 1980-1981. 36 pages, 39 black-and-white 
illustrations. August 1, 1980. 

Office of Membership and Development. Dinner program for the Fourth An- 
nual Dinner in Honor of the National Board of the Smithsonian Associates and 
the James Smithson Society. 20 pages. September 19, 1980. 

. Invitation to join the James Smithson Society of the Smithsonian Asso- 
ciates. 6 pages. March 1, 1980. 

. Planning Your Smithsonian Visit — Smithsonian National Associates. 16 

pages, 3 black-and-white illustrations. August 20, 1980. 

. Planning Your Smithsonian Visit. 12 pages. August 20, 1980. 

Office of Museum Programs. National Museum Act Guidelines for 1981 Grant 
Programs. 32 pages. July 10, 1980. 

Office of Personnel Administration. Employment at the Smithsonian: Ques- 
tions and Answers. January 7, 1980. 

Office of the Secretary. Bylaws of the Board of Regents and Charter Provisions 
of the Smithsonian Institution. 44 pages. January 2, 1980. 

Office of Symposia and Seminars. The Muses Flee Hitler. (Colloquium Pro- 
gram). January 31, 1980. 

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. Image of the Black in 
Western Art. 10 pages, 16 black-and-white illustrations. September 26, 1980. 

FOLDERS 

Freer Gallery of Art. Ancient Chinese Jade. August 25, 1980. 

. Chinese Calligraphy. May 1, 1980. 

. The Freer Gallery of Art. August 13, 1980. 

National Air and Space Museum. The National Air and Space Museum. Feb- 
ruary 6, 1980. 



384 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



National Museum of History and Technology. Buckaroos in Paradise: Cowboy 
Life in Northern Nevada. September 30, 1980. 

National Portrait Gallery. Portraits I. Reprint. November 28, 1979. 

. Portraits II. Reprint. November 28, 1979. 

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education. Art To Zoo. Newsletter, pub- 
lished several times per year. 

Let's Co To the Smithsonian! Bulletin for schools, published several times per 
year. 

Office of Fellowships and Grants. Smithsonian Fellowships. September 10, 
1980. 

Office of Horticulture. A Victorian Horticultural Extravaganza. July 21, 1980. 

Office of Museum Programs. Children in Museums Symposium. October 26, 
1979. 

Office of Public Affairs. Smithsonian Institution. Reprint. October 1, 1979. 

Office of Symposia and Seminars. The Muses Flee Hitler. (Concert program). 
January 31, 1980. 

Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts. Paintings and Sculp- 
ture of the Grand Salon and Octagon Room. December 10, 1979. 

. Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts. Revised re- 
print. October 26, 1979. 

FLYERS 

Freer Gallery of Art. Chinese Bronzes. March 3, 1980. 

. Islamic Calligraphy and Illumination. April 2, 1980. 

. Japanese Screens. September 30, 1980. 

Museum of African Art. Introductory Courses in African Art and Culture. 
January 17, 1980. 

Office of Horticulture. Trees of Christmas. December 13, 1979. 

INVITATIONS 

National Air and Space Museum. Early Flight. February 27, 1980. 

National Collection of Fine Arts. Across the Nation: Fine Arts for Federal 
Buildings. May 14, 1980. 

. The American Renaissance, 1876-1917. January 21, 1980. 

. The Barney House Circle. February 20, 1980. 

. Birds: Works from the 1979 Annual Exhibition of Art Depicting Birds. 

December 10, 1979. 

. David Gilmour Blythe. September 29, 1980. 

. The Drawings of Morris Lewis. November 1, 1979. 

. Harry Bertoia Sculpture Presentation. July 1, 1980. 

. Hugo Robus. October 24, 1979. 

. Max Weber: Prints and Color Variations. May 22, 1980. 

. Members of the Virginia Art Education Association. October 12, 1979. 

. Reception Honoring Jacob Kainen. November 14, 1979. 

Office of Fellowships and Grants. The Pursuit of Knowledge, Regents' Fellows' 
Colloquium. April 8, 1980. 

Office of Horticulture. A Victorian Horticultural Extravaganza. June 1980. 



Appendix 4. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications I 385 



Office of Membership and Development. A Decade of Discovery. October 18, 
1979. 

. The Portrait Ball. February 7, 1980. 

. Selections from the National Gem Collection. February 25, 1980. 

. Shikanai Film Previews. February 29, 1980. 

. A Tour of the Dibner Library. May 10, 1980. 

Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts. Berlin Porcelain. Au- 
gust 18, 1980. 

. A Century of Ceramics in the United States, 1878-1978. October 11, 

1979. 

. Costumes from the Arab World. April 8, 1980. 

. Georg Jensen Silversmithy : 77 Artists, 75 Years. December 10, 1979. 

. New Glass. February 21, 1980. 

. Ryijy Rugs from Finland: 200 Years of a Textile Art. November 26, 

1979. 

. Traditional Marionettes in French Belgium Today. March 26, 1980. 

. Webfoots and Bunchgrassers : Folk Art of Oregon Country. August 18, 

1980. 

Smithsonian Institution Press. Franz Bader autograph reception for Adelyn 
Dohme Breeskin: Mary Cassatt Author's Party. January 15, 1980. 

POSTER 

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. Farallon Islands: A Con- 
servation Story. December 14, 1979. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

National Air and Space Museum. Study prints for pre-post learning materials. 
Text labels for photo reproductions. 1980. 

National Museum of Natural History. Atoll Research Bulletin Nos. 223-232 
(in one volume), October 1979; Nos. 233-239 (in one volume), November 1979; 
No. 240, January 1980; and No. 241, March 1980. Production and distribution. 
For individual authors and titles, see Appendix 6, Publications of the Staff. 

Smithsonian Institution Archives. Management of Archives and Manuscript 
Collections for Libraries. Front matter for book reprint. 1980. 

Smithsonian Institution Libraries. "Smithsonian Institution Libraries, Gift of 
Marcia Brady Tucker." Book plates. June 13, 1980. 

Smithsonian Institution Press. Merchants of Light. (Cover for the reprint of an 
article.) November 15, 1979. 



SERIES PUBLICATIONS 

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANTHROPOLOGY 

25. Robert M. Laughlin. "Of Shoes and Ships and Sealing Wax: Sundries 
from Zinacantan." v + 286 pages, frontispiece, 4 figures. May 15, 1980. 

26. Don D. Fowler and John F. Matley. "Material Culture of the Numa: The 
John Wesley Powell Collection, 1867-1880." vi + 181 pages, 82 figures, 1 map, 
2 tables. January 18, 1980. 

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO BOTANY 

41. Joseph H. Kirkbride, Jr. "Revision of the Genus Psyllocarpus (Rubiaceae)." 
iii + 32 pages, 41 figures, 8 plates. October 17, 1979. 



386 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



43. Beryl B. Simpson. "A Revision of the Genus Polylepis (Rosaceae: Sangui- 
sorbeae)." iii + 62 pages, 39 figures. November 27, 1979. 

44. Cleofe E. Calderon and Thomas R. Soderstrom. "The Genera of Bambu- 
soideae (Poaceae) of the American Continent: Keys and Comments." iv + 27 
pages. February 13, 1980. 

45. F. Raymond Fosberg and Marie-Helene Sachet. "Systematic Studies of 
Micronesian Plants." iii + 40 pages, 2 figures. June 13, 1980. 

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE EARTH SCIENCES 

23. Ursula B. Marvin and Brian Mason, editors. "Catalog of Antarctic Meteor- 
ites, 1977-1978." iii + 50 pages, 39 figures, 2 tables. July 25, 1980. 

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE MARINE SCIENCES 

3. Gilbert Kelling, Andres Maldonado, and Daniel Jean Stanley. "Salt Tec- 
tonics and Basement Fractures: Key Controls of Recent Sediment Distribution 
on the Balearic Rise, Western Mediterranean." iii + 52 pages, 19 figures, 9 
tables. October 19, 1979. 

4. Daniel Jean Stanley. "Submarine Canyon Wall Sedimentation and Lateral 
Infill: Some Ancient Examples." iii + 32 pages, 17 figures. February 13, 1980. 

5. Daniel Jean Stanley. "The Saint-Antonin Conglomerate in the Maritime 
Alps: A Model for Coarse Sedimentation on a Submarine Slope." iii + 25 
pages, 12 figures, 1 table. July 23, 1980. 

6. Stephen J. Culver and Martin A. Buzas. "Distribution of Recent Benthic 
Foraminifera off the North American Atlantic Coast." iii + 512 pages, 150 
figures, 2 tables. July 11, 1980. 

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ZOOLOGY 

289. Harald A. Rehder. "The Marine Mollusks of Easter Island (Isla de Pas- 
cua) and Sala y Gomez." iv -f- I 67 pages, 15 figures, 14 plates, 1 table. Au- 
gust 5, 1980. 

291. Edwin O. Willis and Eugene Eisenmann. "A Revised List of Birds of 
Barro Colorado Island, Panama." iii + 31 pages, 1 figure. November 27, 1979. 

292. Paul Slud. "The Birds of Hacienda Palo Verdi, Guanacaste, Costa Rica." 
iv + 92 pages, frontispiece, 6 figures, 33 plates, 1 table. June 3, 1980. 

296. Roger Cressey and Hillary Boyle Cressey. "The Parasitic Copepods of 
Indo-West Pacific Lizardfishes (Synodontidae)." iii + 71 pages, 53 figures, 2 
tables. December 14, 1979. 

297. Victor E. Diersing and Don E. Wilson. "Distribution and Systematics of 
the Rabbits {Sylvilagus) of West-Central Mexico." iii + 34 pages, 12 figures, 
3 tables. January 8, 1980. 

301. W. Ronald Heyer. "Systematics of the pentadactylus Species Group of 
the Frog Genus Leptodactylus (Amphibia: Leptodactylidae)." iii + 43 pages, 
23 figures, 12 tables. October 9, 1979. 

302. Carl Zimmer. "Cumaceans of the American Atlantic Boreal Coast Re- 
gion (Crustacea: Peracarida)." Edited by Thomas E. Bowman and Les Watling. 
v + 29 pages, 78 figures. March 5, 1980. 

303. Wayne N. Mathis. "Studies of Ephydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), III: Re- 
visions of Some Neotropical Genera and Species." iii + 50 pages, 77 figures. 
May 14, 1980. 



Appendix 4. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications I 387 



304. Brian Kensley. "Anthuridean Isopod Crustaceans from the International 
Indian Ocean Expedition, 1960-1965, in the Smithsonian Collections." iii + 37 
pages, 25 figures. January 29, 1980. 

305. Ch. Lewinsohn and Raymond B. Manning. "Stomatopod Crustacea from 
the Eastern Mediterranean." iii + 22 pages, 7 figures. March 27, 1980. 

307. Anita George and Victor G. Springer. "Revision of the Clinid Fish Tribe 
Ophiclinini, Including Five New Species, and Definition of the Family Clini- 
dae." iii + 31 pages, 14 figures, 6 tables. June 13, 1980. 

308. John R. Holsinger and Glenn Longley. "The Subterranean Amphipod 
Crustacean Fauna of an Artesian Well in Texas." iii + 62 pages, 27 figures, 3 
tables. June 13, 1980. 

309. Louis S. Kornicker and Francisca Elena Caraion. "Nealella, a New Genus 
of Myodocopid Ostracoda (Sarsiellidae: Dantyinae)." iii + 27 pages, 16 fig- 
ures, 7 plates. June 13, 1980. 

311. Roger Cressey and Hillary Boyle Cressey. "Parasitic Copepods of Mack- 
eral- and Tuna-like Fishes (Scombridae) of the World." iv + 186 pages, 139 
figures. April 1, 1980. 

312. Frank D. Ferrari and Thomas E. Bowman. "Pelagic Copepods of the Fam- 
ily Oithonidae (Cyclopoida) from the East Coasts of Central and South Amer- 
ica." iii + 27 pages, 15 figures, 1 table. June 26, 1980. 

313. Thomas R. Waller. "Scanning Electron Microscopy of Shell and Mantle 
in the Order Arcoida (Mollusca: Bivalvia)." iii + 58 pages, 46 figures, 1 table. 
June 23, 1980. 

316. Storrs L. Olson and Alan Feduccia. "Relationships and Evolution of Fla- 
mingos (Aves: Phoenicopteridae)." iii + 73 pages, 40 figures, 2 tables. Sep- 
tember 19, 1980. 

317. Robert D. Gordon and Oscar L. Cartwright. "The Western Hemisphere 
Species of Rhyssemus and Trichiorhyssemus (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae)." iii 
+ 29 pages, 31 figures, 8 maps. September 9, 1980. 

320. Martha R. Cooper and Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. "New and Little-known 
Crayfishes of the virilis Section of the Genus Orconectes (Decapoda: Cam- 
baridae) from the Southeastern United States." iii + 44 pages, 13 figures, 6 
tables. August 26, 1980. 

321. Richard S. Houbrick. "Review of the Deep-Sea Genus Argyropeza (Gas- 
tropoda: Prosobranchia: Cerithiidae)." iii + 30 pages, 12 figures, 8 tables. 
July 23, 1980. 

323. Storrs L. Olson and'Alan Feduccia. "Presbyornis and the Origin of the 
Anseriformes (Aves: Charadriomorphae)." iv + 24 pages, frontispiece, 15 fig- 
ures. September 19, 1980. 

SMITHSONIAN STUDIES IN AIR AND SPACE 

3. Paul A. Hanle. "High Technology on Earth: Studies in Using Aerospace 
Systems and Methods." iii + 59 pages, 1 figure. November 21, 1979. 

SMITHSONIAN STUDIES IN HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 

39. Richard E. Ahlborn, editor. "Man Made Mobile: Early Saddles of Western 
North America." x + 147 pages, frontispiece, 84 figures. September 9, 1980. 



388 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



41. Audrey Davis and Toby Appel. "Bloodletting Instruments in the National 
Museum of History and Technology." v + 103 pages, 124 figures. Decem- 
ber 14, 1979. 

42. Claudia B. Kidwell. "Cutting a Fashionable Fit: Dressmakers' Drafting 
Systems in the United States, viii -f- 163 pages, frontispiece, 70 figures, 4 ta- 
bles. January 24, 1979. 

43. Susan H. Myers. "Handcraft to Industry: Philadelphia Ceramics in the 
First Half of the Nineteenth Century, iii + 117 pages, 32 figures. July 11, 1980. 



Appendix 4. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications I 389 



APPENDIX 5. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian 

Institution and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1980 

Publications are by staff members unless otherwise indi- 
cated. 



SCIENCE 

CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES 

Balling, J. D. "Methods and Models of Decision Making for Conflict Resolu- 
tion." In Environmental Law: A Course of Study vol. 2, sec. 3, pp. 49-59. 
Philadelphia: American Law Institute, 1980. 

Chrost, R. J., and Faust, M. A. "Molecular Weight Fractionation of Phyto- 
plankton Extracellular Products by Ultra Filtration." Acta Microbiological 
Polonica, 1980. 

Falk, J. H., and Balling, J. D. "The School Field Trip: Where You Go Makes 
The Difference." Science and Children 17(6) (1980) :6-8. 

Falk, J. H., and Sullivan, J. K. "Perspectives On Education in Estuarine Sanc- 
tuaries." Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, Smithsonian 
Institution, 1980. 

Faust, M. A., and Chrost, R. J. "Carbon and Phosphorus Assimilation of Estu- 
arine Plankton Populations." In International Symposium on the Effects of 
Nutrient Enrichment in Estuaries, ed. B. Neilson. Clifton, N.J.: The Humana 
Press, Inc., 1980. 

Hines, A. H. "Size at Maturity and Reproduction in Five Species of Spider 
Crabs." American Zoologist 19(1979) :378. 

Limpert, R. J. "Homing Success of Adult Buffleheads to a Maryland Wintering 
Site." Journal of Wildlife Management, vol. 4 (1980). 

Lynch, J. F.; Balinsky, E. C; and Vail, S. G. "Foraging Patterns in Three 
Sympatric Forest Ant Species, Prenolepis imparls, Paratrechina melanderi, 
and Aphaemogaster rudis (Hymenoptera: Formicidae)." Ecological Entomol- 
ogy 5(4) (1980). 

Pogell, S. M. "Public Participation: Some Opportunities and Mechanisms for 
Non-Adversary Resolution of Environmental Conflict." In Management and 
Control of Growth, vol. 5, pp. 259-366. Washington, D.C.: The Urban Land 
Institute, 1980. 

Whigham, D. F., and Bayley, S. E. "Nutrient Dynamics in Freshwater Wet- 
lands." In Wetland Functions and Values: The State of Our Understanding, 
eds. P. E. Greeson, J. R. Clark, and J. E. Clark, pp. 468-78. Minneapolis: 
American Water Works Association, 1979. 

Whigham, D. F., and McWethy, M. F. "Studies on the Pollination Ecology of 
Tipularia discolor (Orchidaceae)." American Journal of Botany 67(1980): 
550-55. 

Whigham, D. F.; Simpson, R. L.; and Leek, M. A. "The Distribution of Seeds, 
Seedlings, and Established Plants of Peltandra virginica in a Freshwater 
Tidal Wetland." Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club 106(1980) :193-99. 

Whigham, D. F.; Simpson, R. L.; and Lee, K. "The Effect of Sewage Effluent on 



390 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



the Structure and Function of a Freshwater Tidal Marsh Ecosystem." Water 
Resources Research Institute. New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University, 1980. 

Wu, T. L. "Dissipation of the Herbicides Atrazine and Alachlor in a Maryland 
Cornfield." Journal of Environmental Quality 9(1980) :459-65. 

Wu, T. L.; Lampert, L.; Hastings, D.; and Banning, D. "Enrichment of the 
Agricultural Herbicide Atrazine in Micro-Surface Waters of an Estuary." 
Bulletin of Environmental Contamination and Toxicology 24(1980) :411-14. 

FORT PIERCE BUREAU 

Burke, R. D., and Chia, F. S. "Formation of the Larval Digestive Tract of 
Strongylocentrotus purpuratus I: Sphincter Formation." International Jour- 
nal of Invertebrate Reproduction, 2(1980) :1-12. 

. "Formation of the Larval Digestive Tract of Strongylocentrotus pur- 
puratus II: Shaping and Bending." International Journal of Invertebrate 
Reproduction, 2(1980) :13-21. 

Rice, Mary E. "Sipuncula and Echiura." In Intertidal Invertebrates of the Cali- 
fornia Coast, chapter 19. Stanford, Calif. : Stanford University Press, 1980. 

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM 

Office of the Director 

Boyne, Walter J. Flying: An Introduction to Plight, Airplanes and Aviation 
Careers. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1980. 

. "Rara Aves." Airpower (January 1980). 

. "Return of the Swallow." Wings (April 1980). 

. "Wonder Weapons." Wings (June 1980). 

— . "Russian Refugees." Wings (June 1980). 

"A Walking Tour of the National Air and Space Museum." World 



Progress Through Aviation, United Nations Association of the United States 

of America, 1979. 
Boyne, Walter J., and Lopez, Donald S., editors. The Jet Age: Forty Years of 

Jet Aviation. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 
. "Jet Fighters." In The Jet Age: Forty Years of Jet Aviation, pp. 47-68. 

Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

-. "Jet Bombers." In The Jet Age: Forty Years of Jet Aviation, pp. 89-100. 



Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

"Jet Airliners." In The Jet Age: Forty Years of Jet Aviation, pp. 125- 



40. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Center for Earth and Planetary Studies 

Abdel-Rahman, M., and El-Baz, F. "Detection of a Probable Ancestral Delta 
of the Nile River." In Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Summary Science Report, 
vol. 2, pp. 511-20. NASA SP-412, 1979. 

Andre, C. G.; Maxwell, T. A.; El-Baz, F.; and Adler, I. [Abstract] "Chemical 
Diversity of the Lunar Light Plains From Orbital X-ray Data." In Papers 
Presented to the Conference on the Lunar Highlands Crust, pp. 1-2. Hous- 
ton: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1979. 

Andre, C. G.; Wolfe, R. W.; and Adler, I. "Are Early Magnesium-rich Basalts 
Widespread on the Moon?" In Proceedings of the Tenth Lunar and Planetary 
Science Conference, pp. 1739-51. New York: Pergamon Press, 1979. 

Chaikin, A. L.; Maxwell, T. A.; and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] "Photogeologic 
Studies of the Cerberus Albedo Feature of Mars." Reports of Planetary 
Geology Program, 1979-1980, pp. 43-45. NASA TM-81776, 1980. 

El-Baz, F. "Color of Desert Surfaces in the Arabian Peninsula." In Apollo- 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 391 



Soyuz Test Project Summary Science Report, vol. 2, pp. 285-99. NASA 
SP-412, 1979. 

-, ed. Catalog of Earth. Photographs from the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project. 



NASA TM-58218, 1979. 

. "The New Mars." Interdisciplinary Science Reviews 4(4) (1979) :315-17. 

. "Deserts." World Environment Report 6(1,2) (1980) :7-8. 

. "Lunar and Planetary Toponomy." Air and Space 3(4) (1980) :10-11. 

'The Necessity for the Application of Advanced Cartographic Tech- 



nology in Developing Nations." In Fourteenth International Symposium on 
Remote Sensing of Environment, April 23-30, 1980, p. 79. Instituto Geo- 
grafico National, San Jose, Costa Rica, 1980. 

"Journey Into Northern China: Impressions of a Scientist." Explorers 



Journal 58(2) (1980) :60-65. 

[Abstract] "Quaternary Climatic Changes and the Formation of the 



Eastern Sahara." In Resumes of 26 Congres Ceologique International, 7-17 
Juillet 1980 2(11)(1980):819. 

'Narrative of the Journey." The Geographical Journal 146(1) (1980) :51- 



59. 

-. "Future Work in the Southern Part of the Western Desert." The Geo- 



graphical Journal 146(1) (1980) :91-93. 

El-Baz, F.; Boulos, L.; Breed, C; Dardir, A.; Dowidar, H. ; El-Etr, H.; Embabi, 
N.; Grolier, M.; Haynes, C. V.; Ibrahim, M.; Issawi, B.; Maxwell, T. A.; 
McCauley, J. F.; McHugh, W.; Moustafa, A.; and Yousif, M. "Journey to 
the Gilf Kebir and Uweinat, Southwest Egypt, 1978." The Geographical 
Journal 146(1) (1980) :51-93. 

El-Baz, F.; Breed, C. S.; Grolier, M. J.; and McCauley, J. F. "Eolian Features 
in the Western Desert of Egypt and Some Applications to Mars." Journal of 
Geophysical Research 84(Bl4)(1979) :8205-21. 

El-Baz, F., and El-Etr, H. A. "Color Zoning in the Western Desert of Egypt." 
In Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Summary Science Report, vol. 2, pp. 203-17. 
NASA SP-412, 1979. 

El-Baz, F.; Issawi, B.; El-Etr, H.; Breed, C; Dardir, A.; Maxwell, T.; McCauley, 
J.; and Grolier, M. [Abstract] "Geological Observations in Southwestern 
Egypt." Abstracts for Fifth Conference on African Geology, p. 25, Geologi- 
cal Survey of Egypt, 1979. 

El-Baz, F., and Maxwell, T. A. [Abstract] "Geological Constraints on Archaeo- 
logical Sites in the Western Desert of Egypt." Geological Society of America, 
1979 Annual Meeting, Abstracts with Programs, vol. 2, p. 420, 1979. 

. "Eolian Streaks in Southwestern Egypt and Similar Features in the 

Cerberus Region of Mars." Proceedings of the Tenth Lunar and Planetary 
Science Conference, pp. 3017-30. New York: Pergamon Press, 1979. 

"Wind Streaks in the Uweinat Region and Mars." The Geographical 



Journal 146(1) (1980) :90-91. 

El-Baz, F., and Prestel, D. J. [Abstract] "Desert Varnish on Sand Grains from 
the Western Desert of Egypt: Importance of the Clay Component and Impli- 
cations to Mars." Lunar and Planetary Science XI, pp. 254-56. Houston: 
Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1980. 

El-Baz, F.; Slezak, M.; and Maxwell, T. A. "Preliminary Analysis of Color 
Variations of Sand Deposits in the Western Desert of Egypt." In Apollo- 
Soyuz Test Project Summary Science Report, vol. 2, pp. 237-62. NASA 
SP-412, 1979. 

El-Baz, F., and Warner, D. M., eds. Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Summary Sci- 
ence Report, vol. 2. NASA SP-412, 1979. 

El-Baz, F.; Warner, D. M.; and Anders, F. "Comparison of Astronaut Visual 
Color Observations with ASTP Photographs." In Apollo-Soyuz Test Project 
Summary Science Report, vol. 2, pp. 635-44. NASA SP-412, 1979. 



392 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



El-Baz, F.; Warner, D.; and Giuli, R. "Summary of Significant Results." In 
Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Summary Science Report, vol. 2, pp. 1-8. NASA 
SP-412, 1979. 

El-Etr, H, and El-Baz, F. "Utilization of ASTP Photographs in the Study of 
Small Structures in Abu Rawash and Wadi el Natrun, Egypt." In Apollo- 
Soyuz Test Project Summary Science Report, vol. 2, pp. 107-18, NASA SP- 
412, 1979. 

El-Etr, H.; Embabi, N.; and Yousif, M., eds. Ceologic-Ceomorphic Studies in 
the Egyptian Deserts. Cairo: Ain Shams University, 1980. 

El-Etr, H.; Moustafa, A.; and El-Baz, F. "Photolineaments in the ASTP Stereo- 
strip of the Western Desert of Egypt." In Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Sum- 
mary Science Report, vol. 2, pp. 97-105. NASA SP-412, 1979. 

Gifford, A. W. "Think along with Planetary Scientists about Planetary Feature 
Terms." Air and Space 3(4) (1980) . -16. 

Gifford, A. W., and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] "Distribution and Ages of Light- 
Colored Plains on the Moon." In Conference on the Lunar Highlands Crust, 
14-16 November 1979, pp. 1-23. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 
1979. 

Gifford, A. W., and Maxwell, T. A. "Asymmetric Terracing of Lunar Highland 
Craters." Proceedings of the Tenth Lunar and Planetary Science Conference, 
pp. 2597-607. New York: Pergamon Press, 1979. 

Gifford, A. W., and Maxwell, T. A. [Abstract] "Ridge Systems of Caloris: 
Comparison with Lunar Basins." In Lunar and Planetary Science XI, pp. 
327-29. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1980. 

Gifford, A. W.; Warner, D.; and El-Baz, F. "Orbital Observations of Sand 
Distribution in the Western Desert of Egypt." In Apollo-Soyuz Test Project 
Summary Science Report, vol. 2, pp. 219-36. NASA SP-412, 1979. 

Hamdan, A. H., and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] "Orientation of Central Peaks in 
Craters on Mars." Lunar and Planetary Science XI, pp. 388-89. Houston: 
Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1980. 

Head, J. W., and Gifford, A. W. "Lunar Mare Domes: Classification and Modes 
of Origin." The Moon and the Planets 22(1980) :235-38. 

Lamar, N.; Lockwood, H.; and D'Alli, R. "Film Selection for the Earth Obser- 
vations and Photography Experiment." In Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Sum- 
mary Science Report, vol. 2, pp. 645-54. NASA SP-412, 1979. 

Lin, R. P.; El-Baz, F.; Hood, L. L.; Runcorn, S. K.; and Schultz, P. H. [Abstract] 
"Magnetic Anomalies Antipodal to Large Impact Basins." Lunar and Plane- 
tary Science XI, pp. 626-27. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1980. 

Lockwood, H.; Perry, L.; and Wolfe, R. "Film Exposure Calculations." In 
Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Summary Science Report, vol. 2, pp. 645-54. 
NASA SP-412, 1979. 

Maxwell, T. A. [Abstract] "Erosional Development of the Southern Gilf Kebir 
Plateau, Southwestern Egypt." Geological Society of America, 1979 Annual 
Meeting, Abstracts with Programs, vol. 2, pp. 473-74, 1979. 

. "Suspended Sediment Dispersal Patterns of Rivers Photographed by 

ASTP." In Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Summary Science Report, vol. 2, pp. 
521-30. NASA SP-412, 1979. 

"Geomorphology of the Gilf Kebir." The Geographical Journal 146(1) 



(1980) :76-83. 

[Abstract] "Transportation and Deposition of Particulate Material on 



the Surface of Mars: Inferences from Sand Sheet Deposits in the Western 
Desert of Egypt." Reports of Planetary Geology Program, 1979-1980, pp. 
393-95. NASA TM-81776, 1980. 
McCauley, J.; Breed, C; El-Baz, F.; Witney, M.; Grolier, M.; and Ward, A. 
"Pitted and Fluted Rocks in the Western Desert of Egypt: Viking Compari- 
sons." Journal of Geophysical Research 84(Bl4) (1979) -.8222-32. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 393 



McCauley, J. F.; Breed, C. S.; Grolier, M. J.; and El-Baz, F. "Pitted Rocks and 
Other Ventifacts in the Western Desert. The Geographical Journal 146(1) 
(1980) :84-85. 

McLafferty, S.; Pryslak, M.; and Maul, G. "Determining Photographic Loca- 
tions over Oceans." In Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Summary Science Report, 
vol. 2, pp. 359-70. NASA SP-412, 1979. 

Prestel, D. J.; Wainwright, J. F.; and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] "Mineralogy and 
Morphology of the Coatings on Sand Grains From the Gilf Kebir, Southwest 
Egypt." EOS 60(46) (1979) :872. 

. [Abstract] "Studies of the Coatings on Sand Grains From the Gilf 

Kebir, Southwest Egypt." Reports of Planetary Geology Program, 1979-1980, 
pp. 238-40. NASA TM-81776, 1980. 

Slezak, M., and El-Baz, F. "Temporal Changes as Depicted on Orbital Photo- 
graphs of Arid Regions in North Africa." In Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Sum- 
mary Science Report, vol. 2, pp. 262-72. NASA SP-412, 1979. 

Strain, P. L., and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] "Ina, A Lunar Caldera?" Lunar and 
Planetary Science XI, pp. 1103-5. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 
1980. 

. "Smythii Basin Topography and Comparisons with Orientale." In 

Proceedings of the Tenth Lunar Planetary Science Conference, pp. 2609-21. 
New York: Pergamon Press, 1979. 

Tisdall, T., and El-Baz, F. "Analysis of Water Color as Seen in Orbital and 
Aerial Photographs of Cape Cod, Nantucket, and Martha's Vineyard, Massa- 
chusetts." In Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Summary Science Report, vol. 2, 
pp. 455-80. NASA SP-412, 1979. 

Warner, D. M. "ASTP Photographs of Southeastern Angola." In Apollo-Soyuz 
Test Project Summary Science Report, vol. 2, pp. 273-84. NASA SP-412, 
1979. 

Warner, D. M., and El-Baz, F. "Monte Desert of San Juan, Argentina, as Pho- 
tographed by ASTP." In Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Summary Science Report, 
vol. 2, pp. 301-18. NASA SP-412, 1979. 

Wolfe, R. W. [Abstract] "Optical Power Spectrum Analysis of Martian Ter- 
rains." Reports of Planetary Geology Program, 1979-1980, pp. 323-25. NASA 
TM-81776, 1980. 

Wolfe, R. W., and Kaplan, S. [Abstract] "Statistical Pattern Recognition As an 
Aid in Geologic Interpretation of Martian Terrains." Lunar and Planetary 
Science XI, pp. 1268-70. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1980. 

Wood, C. A. [Abstract] "New Observations of Martian Basins." Lunar and 
Planetary Science XI, pp. 1271-73. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 
1980. 

Wood, C. A., and Gifford, A. W. [Abstract] "Crater Distributions and the Evo- 
lution of the Lunar Farside Highlands." In Reports of Planetary Geology 
Program, 1979-1980, pp. 111-13. NASA TM-81776, 1980. 

Yentsch, C, and El-Baz, F. "Estimate of Total Reflectance from the Orinoco 
River Outflow." In Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Summary Science Report, vol. 
2, pp. 499-503. NASA SP-412, 1979. 

Department of Aeronautics 

Crouch, Tom D. "The Road to Kitty Hawk." US Air, 2(6) (1980) :64. 

Crouch, Tom D.; Oakes, Claudia M.; and Hallion, Richard P. Early Flight: 

From Dream to Reality. Washington, D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 

1980. 
Kelsey, Benjamin S. "Designing an Airplane for Aerobatics." Exxon Air World, 

32(2) (1980) :18. 
Lopez, Donald S., and Boyne Walter J., eds. The Jet Age: Forty Years of Jet 

Aviation. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 



394 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Lopez, Donald S., and Boyne, Walter J. "Jet Fighters." pp 47-68 in The Jet 
Age: Forty Years of Jet Aviation. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1979. 

. "Jet Bombers." In The Jet Age: Forty Years of Jet Aviation, pp 89-100. 

Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

"Jet Airliners." In The Jet Age: Forty Years of Jet Aviation, pp. 125-40. 



Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 
Mikesh, Robert C. Aircraft in Museums Around the World, sections 1 and 2. 

Washington, D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 1980. 
. "Albatros D. Va." Famous Aircraft of the National Air and Space 

Museum, no. 4. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

. B-57 Canberra At War 1964-1972. Shepperton, England: Ian Allan. 

'Lockheed C-121A Constellations in USAF and Civilian Service." 



American Aviation Historical Society Journal 25(1) (1980) :10. 

"The Clipper Connection." Air Line Pilot, 49(4) (1980) :26. 



Oakes, Claudia M. "Those Magnificent Women in Their Flying Machines." 

Air and Space 3(4)(1980). 

. "Women Parachutists." Air and Space 3(5) (1980). 

Sweeting, C. G. "Parachutes." Air and Space 3(5) (1980). 

Wooldridge, E. T. "P-80 Shooting Star: Evolution of a Jet Fighter." Famous 

Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum, no. 3. Washington, D.C. : 

Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Department of Space Science and Exploration 

Chamberlain, Von Del, ed. Sky Interpretation Resource Bulletin, vol. 4. Amer- 
ican Astronomical Society, 1980. 

. "Think Along With Astronomers About Solar Ups and Downs." Air 

and Space 3(3) (1980). 

, "New Eyes on the Universe." Air and Space 3(4)(1980). 

[Review] An Observer's Guide to the Universe Beyond the Solar Sys- 



tem, by Robert Burnham, Jr. Archaeo astronomy Bulletin 3(2) (Spring 1980). 

Corn, Joseph [Guggenheim Fellow] "Making Flying 'Thinkable,' Women Pilots 
and the Selling of Aviation, 1927-1940." American Quarterly 31 (Fall 1979). 

Hanle, Paul A., ed. "High Technology on Earth: Studies in Using Aerospace 
Systems and Methods." Smithsonian Studies in Air and Space, no. 3. Wash- 
ington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

. "The Schrodinger-Einstein Correspondence and the Sources of Wave 

Mechanics." American Journal of Physics 47(1979) :644-48. 

Kennedy, Gregory P. "Solar Power Satellites." Air and Space 3(3) (1980). 

. "Space Shuttle Update." Air and Space 3(5) (1980). 

Winter, Frank H., and Hallion, Richard P. "Out of the Past — An Aerospace 
Chronology." Aeronautics and Astronautics (October 1979-September 1980). 

Winter, Frank H.; Schmitt, Frederick P.; and Dejong, Cornelis. Thomas Wel- 
come Roys: America's Pioneer of Modern Whaling. Charlottesville, Va.: Uni- 
versity Press of Virginia, 1980. 

. "Ernst Loebell (1902-1979)." Space Flight 22(5) (May 1980). 

. "Cleveland Rocket Society Cachet Mystery Solved." The Airpost Jour- 
nal 51(8)(May 1980). 

"The Earliest Space Photography Concepts." In Proceedings of the 



Eighth Semana Astronautica Barcelona: Spanish Astronautical Society, 1980. 
"The American Rocket Society Story — 1930-1962." Journal of the 



British Interplanetary Society Space Chronicle 33(8) (August 1980). 

Division of Education Services 

Joels, Kerry M., and Podolske, Helen W., eds. Proceedings of a Conference on 
Multi-Cultural Aerospace Education Programs in Schools and Museums — 
June 11-12, 1979. Washington, D.C: National Air and Space Museum, 1979. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 395 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF MAN, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN 

NATIONAL ANTHROPOLOGICAL FILM CENTER 

Sorenson, E. Richard. "Les Documents Filmes La Connaissance De L'Homme 

et L'Avenir." In Cahiers De L'Homme: Pour Une Anthropologie Visuelle, 

ed. C. De France. Paris: Mouton, 1979. 
. Research photograph contributed to Culture, People, and Nature, by 

Marvin Harris, 3d ed. New York: Harper & Row, 1980. 
Sorenson, E. Richard, and Neuberger, Gay C, with the staff of the NAFC and 

the Executive Committee of the Advisory Council. "The History of the 

NAFC, 1967-1979." Supplement 6 to The National Anthropological Film 

Center, A Report On Its Beginnings and Programs. Washington, D.C. : 

NAFC, 1979. 
. "The Program for Visual Data Resources Development." Supplement 

7 to The National Anthropological Film Center, A Report on Its Beginnings 

and Programs. Washington, D.C: NAFC, 1979. 
Sorenson, E. Richard; Schecter, Steven C; and Dorjee, Ragpa. Ladakh Village 

Morning, project produced and directed by E. Richard Sorenson and Gyatsho 

Tshering. Washington, D.C, 1980. 

RESEARCH INSTITUTE ON IMMIGRATION AND ETHNIC STUDIES 

Bryce-Laporte, Roy S., ed., with assistance of Mortimer, Delores M., and 
Couch, Stephen R. Sourcebook on the New Immigration: Implications for 
the United States and the International Community. New Brunswick, N.J.: 
Transaction Books for the Smithsonian Institution, 1979. 

. Supplement to the Sourcebook on the New Immigration. Washington, 

D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

"New York City and the New Caribbean Immigration: A Contextual 



Statement." International Migration Review 8(2) (Summer 1980). 

Cohen, Lucy M. Culture, Disease, and Stress Among Latinos. Washington, 
DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Couch, Stephen R., and Bryce-Laporte, Roy S., eds. Quantitative Data and Im- 
migration Research. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 
Department of Anthropology 

Angel, J. Lawrence. "Physical Anthropology." In Mummies of the World, ed. 
T. A. Cockburn and E. Cockburn, chap. 14. New York: Cambridge Univer- 
sity Press, 1980. 

Axtell, James, and Sturtevant, William C "The Unkindest Cut, or Who In- 
vented Scalping?" William and Mary Quarterly 37(3) (1980) :451-72, 3d series. 

Brooks, Alison S.; Selig, Ruth O.; and Lanouette, Jo Anne. "The Educator's 
Guide to Odyssey." Public Broadcasting Associates, Inc., February 1980. 

Burch, Ernest S., Jr. "The Thule-Historic Eskimo Transition on the West Coast 
of Hudson Bay." In Thule Eskimo Culture: An Anthropological Retrospec- 
tive, ed. Allen P. McCartney, pp. 189-211. Ottawa: National Museum of 
Man, Archaeological Survey of Canada Paper No. 88, 1979. 

. "The Ethnography of Northern North America: A Guide to Recent 

Research." Arctic Anthropology xvi(l)(1979) :62-1496. 

-. "Indians and Eskimos in North Alaska, 1816-1977: A Study in Chang- 



ing Ethnic Relations." Arctic Anthropology xvi(2)(1979) :123-51. 
. "Traditional Eskimo Societies in Northwest Alaska." In Alaska Native 



Culture and History, ed. Yoshinobu Kotani and William Workman, pp. 253- 
304. Suita, Japan: National Museum of Ethnology (Senri Ethnological Studies 
No. 4), 1980. 



396 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Burch, Ernest S., Jr., and Smith, James G. E. "Chipewyan and Inuit in the 
Central Canadian Subarctic, 1613-1977." Arctic Anthropology xvi(2)(1979) : 
76-701. 

Cassidy, Claire M. "Diagnosis of Arthritis in Dry Bones." Henry Ford Hospital 
Journal 27(1979) :68-69. 

. "Benign Neglect and Toddler Malnutrition." In Social and Biological 

Predictors of Nutritional Status, Physical Growth, and Neurological Devel- 
opment, eds. L. S. Greene and F. Johnston. New York: Academic Press, 1980. 
"Nutrition and Health in Agriculturalists and Hunter-Gatherers: A 



Case Study of Two Prehistoric Populations." In Nutritional Anthropology, 

eds. N. Jerome, R. Kandel, and G. Pelto. Redgrave Publishing Co, 1980. 
Crocker, William H. "Canela 'Group' Recruitment and Perpetuity: Incipient 

'Unilineality'?" In Actes (XLIF Congres International des Americanistes, 

Paris, 1976):2259-275, 1977. 
. "Estorias das Epocas de Pre e Pos-Pacificacao dos Ramkokamekra e 

Apaniekra-Canelas." Boletim do Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, Nova Serie: 

Antropologia 68, Belem 1978. 

-. "Canela Kinship and the Question of Matrilineality." In Brazil, Anthro- 



pological Perspectives, ed. M. L. Margolis and W. E. Carter, pp. 225-49. New 
York: Columbia University Press, 1979. (Essays in honor of Charles Wagley). 

Ewers, John C. "Images of the White Man in 19th Century Plains Indian Art." 
In World Anthropology. The Visual Arts, Plastic and Graphic, ed. Justine M. 
Cordwell, pp. 411-29. The Hague: Mouton Publishers, 1979. 

. George Catlin, Painter of American Indians, [text accompanying slide 

set] Coordinated by Sarah McAnulty Quilter. Washington, D.C.: Office of 
Printing and Photographic Services, Smithsonian Institution, 1979. 

"Climate, Acculturation and Costume: A History of Women's Clothing 



Among the Indians of the Southern Plains." In Plains Anthropologist 25-87 
(1980) :63-83. 

-, ed. Indian Art in Pipestone. George Catlin's Portfolio in the British 



Museum. British Museum Publications, Ltd. and Smithsonian Institution 
Press. Washington, D.C, 1979. 

Fitzhugh, William W. "A Prehistoric Caribou Fence From Williams Harbor, 
Northern Labrador." In Megaliths to Medicine Wheels; Proceedings from a 
Symposium, Chacmool Archaeological Society, University of Calgary, Octo- 
ber 1978 (1980). 

. "Les Modes d' adaptation bases sur le caribou dans les regions cen- 

trale et septentrionale du Labrador." In le Dossier Caribou, ed. Francois 
Trudel, Recherches Amerindiennes au Quebec 9(1-2) (1979) :55-70. 

"Preliminary Report on the Torngat Archeological Project." Arctic 



33(3)(1980). 

"A Review of Paleo-Eskimo Culture History in Southern Labrador and 



Newfoundland." Etudes /Inuit /Studies 3(1980). 

Fowler, Don D., and Matley, John F. "Material Culture of the Numa: The John 
Wesley Powell Collection, 1867-1880." Smithsonian Contributions to Anthro- 
pology 26. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Frolich, Bruno, and Kopjanski, David. "Repport Preliminarie sur les squelettes 
excaves dans les tombs aux AG et AO." In Fouilles Danoise a Carthage, ed. 
Soren Dietz and Steffen Trolle. Working papers #10, Danish National Mu- 
seum, Copenhagen, Denmark, 1979. 

Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. "Synonymy" in the chapters "Pueblos: Introduction," 
"Taos Pueblo," "Picuris Pueblo," "Santa Clara Pueblo," "San Ildefonso 
Pueblo," "Pojoaque Pueblo," "Sandia Pueblo," "Isleta Pueblo," "Cochiti 
Pueblo," "Santo Domingo Pueblo," "San Felipe Pueblo," "Santa Ana Pueblo," 
"Zia Pueblo," "Jemez Pueblo," "Pecos Pueblo," "Laguna Pueblo," "Acoma 
Pueblo," and "Hopi-Twa." In Southwest, ed. Alfonso Ortiz. Handbook of 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 397 



North American Indians 9:234-35, 267, 275-77, 306-7, 315-16, 328-29, 349, 
364, 377, 388, 397, 406, 417, 429, 436-37, 448-49, 464-66, 601. W. Sturtevant, 
general editor. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution, 1979. 

-. "Technical Alphabet." In Southwest, ed. Alfonso Ortiz. Handbook of 



North American Indians 9:x. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C. 
Smithsonian Institution, 1979. 

[Translation of sections of a Delaware-language text] In "Delaware 



Big House Ceremonial." In Native North American Spirituality of the East- 
ern Woodlands, ed. Elisabeth Tooker, pp. 104-24. New York: Paulist Press, 
1979. 

"Comparative Algonquian." In The Languages of Native America: His- 



torical and Comparative Assessment, eds. Lyle Campbell and Marianne 
Mithun, pp. 70-132. Austin: University of Texas Press, 1979. 

-. "The Languages of South Texas and the Lower Rio Grande." In The 



Languages of Native America: Historical and Comparative Assessment, eds. 
Lyle Campbell and Marianne Mithun, pp. 355-89. Austin: University of 
Texas Press, 1979. 

"Eastern Algonquian as a Genetic Subgroup." In Papers of the Eleventh 



Algonquian Conference, ed. W. Cowan, pp. 143-58. Ottawa: Carleton Uni- 
versity, 1980. 

-, linguistic ed. Southwest, ed. Alfonso Ortiz. Handbook of North Amer- 



ican Indians 9. William Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian 

Institution, 1979. 
Goddard, R. H. Ives, III, and Frigout, Arlette. "The Hopi Lunar Calendar." In 

Hopi Ceremonial Organization. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution, 

1979 (1980). 
Goddard, R. H. Ives, III, and Fitzhugh, William W. "A Statement Concerning 

America B.C." In Man in the Northeast 17(1979) :166-72. 
Houchins, Chang-su. "Chosen minzokuga ni okeru tora no mochifu (Tiger 

motifs in ethnological art of the Yi Period)." In The Han 8(11) :61-67. Tokyo: 

Tokyo Institute for Korean Studies, November 1979. 
Kaeppler, Adrienne L. "Hawaiian Art: An Anthropological Perspective." Edu- 
cational Perspectives 19(1) (1980) :10-15. 

. Kapa: Hawaiian Bark Cloth. Hilo, Hawai'i: Bob Boom Books, 1980. 

. Pahu and Piiniu: An Exhibition of Hawaiian Drums. Bernice Pauahi 

Bishop Museum, Department of Anthropology. 1980. 

"The Persistence of Tradition." [Introductory Essay] In Hawai'i: The 



Royal Isles, by Roger G. Rose, pp. 53-62. Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum 

Special Publication 67. 
Koritzer, R. T., and St. Hoyme, Lucile E. "A Prehistoric Example of Severe 

Tempo-Mandibular Arthritec Change in the Presence of a Well Balanced 

Dentition." In Dental Surveys 56(9) (1980) :28-29. 
Laughlin, Robert M. "Tzotzil Texts." In Mayan Texts II, ed. Lauanna Furbee- 

Losee, IJAL-NATS Monograph 3(1979) :136-46. 
. "Of Shoes and Ships and Sealing Wax: Sundries from Zinacantan." 

Smithsonian Contributions to Anthropology 25. Washington, D.C: Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1980. 
Laughlin, William S.; Jorgensen, J. B.; and Frohlich, B. "Aleuts and Eskimos: 

Survivors of the Bering Land Bridge Coast." In The First Americans, ed. 

William S. Laughlin and Albert B. Harper. New York: Gustav Fisher, 1979. 
Meggers, Betty J. "America Pre-Historica. Traducao de Eliana Teixeira de 

Carvalho (Translation of Prehistoric America, 1972), p. 242. Rio de Janeiro: 

Paz e Tierra, 1979. 
. Prehistoric America: An Ecological Perspective, 2d ed. New York: 

Aldine Publishing Co., 1979. 
Meggers, Betty J., and Evans, Clifford. "An Experimental Reconstruction of 



398 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Taruma Village Succession and Some Implications." In Brazil: Anthropologi- 
cal Perspectives, ed. Maxine L. Margolis and William E. Carter, pp. 39-60. 
New York: Columbia University Press, 1979. 

Ortiz, Alfonso, and Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. "Synonymy" in the chapter 
"Tesuque Pueblo." In Southwest, ed. Alfonso Ortiz. Handbook of North 
American Indians 9, p. 335. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C.: 
Smithsonian Institution, 1979. 

Ortner, D. J. "Disease and Mortality in the Early Bronze Age people of Bab 
edh-Dhra, Jordan." American Journal of Physical Anthropology 51(1979): 
589-98. 

. "Focus: The First International Conference on the History and Archae- 
ology of Jordan." Jordan (July, 1980). 

"Bone Tumors in Archeological Human skeletons (Paleopathology of 



Human Bone Tumors)." In Comparative Pathology of Abnormal Growth, ed. 
Hans E. Kaiser, chap. 46. Baltimore: Williams & Wilkins, 1980. 

Phebus, George, "Art Swords in the Smithsonian." Bushido 1(3) (1980) :8-15. 

Richman, E. A.; Ortner, D. J.; and Schulter-Ellis, F. P. "Differences in Intra- 
cortical Bone Remodeling in Three Aboriginal American Populations: Pos- 
sible Dietary Factors." Calcified Tissue International 28(3) (1979) :209-14. 

Schroeder, Albert H., and Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. "Synonymy" in the chapters 
"Zuni History, 1850-1970" and "Hopi Social Organization." In Southwest, 
ed. Alfonso Ortiz. Handbook of North American Indians 9, pp. 479-81, 550- 
53. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution, 1979. 

Schulter-Ellis, F. P. "Evidence of Handedness on Documented Skeletons." Jour- 
nal of Forensic Sciences 25(3)(1980). 

Smith, Bruce D. "The Mound Builders." In The American Land. Washington, 
D.C: Smithsonian Exposition Books, 1980. 

Spiers, Randal H., and Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. "Synonymy" in the chapter 
"Nambe Pueblo." In Southwest, ed. Alfonso Ortiz. Handbook of North 
American Indians 9, p. 322. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C: 
Smithsonian Institution, 1979. 

Stewart, T. D. "J. Lawrence Angel." American Journal of Physical Anthropology 
51(4)(1979):507-16. 

. "Patterning of Skeletal Pathologies and Epidemiology." In The First 

Americans: Origins, Affinities, and Adaptations, eds. William S. Laughlin 
and Albert B. Harper, chap. 11, pp. 257-74. New York: Gustav Fischer, 1979. 
-. "The Medial Clavicular Epiphysis: A New Assessment of its Reliability 



as an Age Indicator." Program of the thirty-second Annual Meeting of the 
American Academy of Forensic Sciences, New Orleans, Louisianna, Feb- 
ruary 20-23, 1980. Abstract 147(1980) :93. 

St. Hoyme, Lucile E. [Comment] "Brace: Australian Tick. Current Anthro- 
pology 21(1980) :58-159. 

St. Hoyme, Lucile E., and Koritzer, R. T. "Extensive Caries in Early Man Circa 
110,000 Years before Present." Journal of American Dental Association 
99(1979) :642-43. 

. "Jaw Forces: Comment." Journal of American Dental Association 100 

(1980) :14. 

Sturtevant, William C. "Preface" and "Southeastern Indian Formulas." In Na- 
tive North American Spiritually of the Eastern Woodlands: Sacred Myths, 
Dreams, Visions, Speeches, Healing Formulas, Rituals, and Ceremonials, ed. 
Elisabeth Tooker, pp. xi-xvii, 282-93. New York: Paulist Press, 1979. 

. [Translation from the German on pp. 45-50, plus passim identifications 

and translations of Creek and Yuchi terms.] In Von Reek's Voyage: Draw- 
ings and Journal of Philip Ceorg Friedrick von Reck, ed. Kristian Hvidt with 
the assistance of Joseph Ewan, George F. Jones, and William C Sturtevant. 
Savannah: The Beehive Press, 1980. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 399 



. "Black Drink and Other Caffeine-Containing Beverages among Non- 
Indians." In Black Drink, A Native American Tea, ed. Charles M. Hudson, 
pp. 150-65. Athens, Ga. : University of Georgia Press, 1979. 

— . "CoEvolution Quarterly." Used Magazines 21(1979) :113-14. 

'President Sturtevant's Report." Council for Museum Anthropology 



Newsletter 4(1) (1979) :4-5. 

"Cannibalism." [letter to the editor] Times Literary Supplement 4015 



(1980). 

"The First Inuit Depiction by Europeans." Etudes Inuit Studies 4(1-2) 



(1980) :47-49. 

-, general editor. "Southwest," ed. Alfonso Ortiz. Handbook of North 



American Indians 9. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1979. 
. "Review of Southeastern Indians Since the Removal Era," ed. Walter 



L. Williams. American Ethnologist 7(3) (1980) :593-94. 
Ubelaker, Douglas H. "Skeletal Evidence for Kneeling in Prehistoric Ecuador." 

American Journal of Physical Anthropology 51(4) :679-85. 
Ubelaker, D. H., and Jantz, R. L. "Plains Caddoan Relationships: The View 

From Craniometry and Mortuary Analysis." Nebraska History 60(2)(1979): 

249-59. 
Viola, Herman J., and Kvasnicka, Robert M., editors. The Commissioners of 

Indian Affairs, 1824-1977. Lincoln, Nebr. : The University of Nebraska Press, 

1979. 
Wedel, Mildred Mott. The Ethnohistoric Approach to Plains Caddoan Ori- 
gins. In "Toward Plains Caddoan Origins: A Symposium." Nebraska 

History 60(2) (1979) :183-96. 
Wedel, Waldo R. "Holocene Cultural Adaptations in the Republican River 

Basin." In The Great Plains, Environment and Culture, eds. Brian W. Blouet 

and Frederick C. Luebke, pp. 1-25. Lincoln, Nebr.: University of Nebraska 

Press, 1979. 
. "House Floors and Native Settlement Populations in the Great Plains." 

Plains Anthropologist 24(84) (1979) :85-98. 

'Introduction," and "Some Reflections on Plains Caddoan Origins." In 



"Toward Plains Caddoan Origins: A Symposium." Nebraska History 60(2) 
(1979) :131-33, 272-93. 

Department of Botany 

Adolphi, K., and Nicolson, Dan H. "Proposal (69) to Amend Recommendation 
75A.1 and Correction in the German Text." Taxon 29(4) (August 1980) :517. 

Ayensu, Edward S., editor. Jungles: The Most Mysterious of All Natural 
Worlds. New York: Crown Publishers, 1980. 

. "Keeping the Wilderness." In The American Land, pp. 108-17. Wash- 
ington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution, 1979. 

"Plants for Medicinal Uses — With Special Reference to Arid Zones." 



In Arid Land Plant Resources, pp. 117-18. Lubbock, Texas: Texas Tech 
University, 1979. 

"Plants of Agricultural and Industrial Development in Africa." In 



Feeding Africa, pp. 130-47. Proceedings of the Second Symposium of Pan 
African Pugwash Group, Cairo, 1980. 

Bohlmann, F.; Dutta, L. N.; Knauf, W.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. "Neue 
Sesquiterpenlactone aus Aster umbellatus." Phytochemistry 19(1980) :433-36. 

Bohlmann, F.; Dutta, L.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. "Neue Labdan-derivate 
aus Chrysothamnus nauseusus." Phytochemistry 18(1979) :1889-92. 

. "Neue Sesquiterpenlactone aus Eupatorium sessih folium." Phytochem- 
istry 18(1979) :1401-03. 

Bohlmann, F.; Fritz, U.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. "Isosesquicaren aus 
Haplopappus tenuisectus." Phytochemistry 18(1979) :1749-50. 



400 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Bohlmann, F.; Knauf, W.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Ein Neues Diterpen 

und Weitere Inhaltsstoffe aus Baccharisarten." Phytochemistry 18(1979): 

1011-14. 
Bohlmann, F.; Knoll, K.-H.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. "Neue Eudesmano- 

lide aus Steiractinia mollis." Phytochemistry 19(1980) :971-72. 
. "Neue Guaianolide aus Cacosmia rugosa." Phytochemistry 19(1980): 

599-602. 

-. "Neue Kauren-derivate und Melampolide aus Smallanthus uvedalia." 



Phytochemistry 19(1980) :107-10. 
Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Neue Ent-Atisiren- 

und Ent-Kaurensaure-derivate aus Helianthus-arten." Phytochemistry 19 

(1980) :863-68. 
Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. "Neue Diterpene 

aus Schkuhria-arten." Phytochemistry 19(1980) :881-84. 
Bohlmann, F.; Rosenberg, E.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Neue Labdan- 

derivate aus Aristeguietia buddleaefolia." Phytochemistry 19(1980) -.977-79. 
Bohlmann, F.; Suding, H.; Cuatrecasas, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. 

"Neue Diterpene aus der Subtribus Espeletiinae." Phytochemistry 19(1980): 

267-71. 
Bohlmann, F.; Suwita, A.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Neue Ent-Labdan- 

derivate aus Austroeupatorium chaparense." Phytochemistry 19(1980) :111-14. 
. "Neue Guajanolide aus Eupatorium rotundifolium." Phytochemistry 

19(1980) :1233-34. 
Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C; Cuatrecasas, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Neue 

Sesquiterpene und Norditerpene aus Vertretern der Gattung Libanothamnus." 

Phytochemistry 19(1980) :1145-48. 
Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C; Bohlmann, R.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Neue 

Sesquiterpene aus Liabum-arten." Phytochemistry 19(1980) :579-82. 
Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Ein Neues Ger- 

macran-8, 12-olid und Neue Diterpene aus Polymnia canadensis." Phyto- 
chemistry 19(1980) :115-18. 
. "Ein Neues Labdan-derivat und Neue Thymol-derivate aus Bishovia 

boliviensis." Phytochemistry 18(1979) :1234-35. 
. "Neue Cadinen-derivate und Andere Inhaltsstoffe aus Chromolaena- 



arten." Phytochemistry 18(1979) :1177-79. 

"Neue Elemanolide und Guajanolide aus Zinnia-artery." Phytochemistry 



18(1979) :1343-48. 

-. "Neue Eudesman-derivate aus Pluchea suaveolens." Phytochemistry 



19(1980) :969-70. 

"Neue Labdan-derivate aus Gutierrezia-arten." Phytochemistry 18 



(1979) :1533-37. 

-. "Neue Melampolide aus Smallanthus fruticosus." Phytochemistry 



19(1980) :973-74. 

"Neue Perezon-derivate aus Acourtia thurberi." Phytochemistry 18 



(1979) :1894-95. 

-. "Neue Sesquiterpenlactone aus Stokesia laevis." Phytochemistry 18 



(1979) :987-89. 

-. "New Heliangolides from Conocliniopsis prasifolia." Phytochemistry 



19(1980) :1547-49. 

-. "New Prenylflavanoids from Marshallia grandiflora." Phytochemistry 



18(1979) :1246-47. 

"New Sesquiterpene Lactones and other Constituents from Fitchia 



speciosa." Phytochemistry 19(1980) :1141-43. 

"Onoseriolid, Ein Neues Sesquiterpenlacton aus Onoseris albicans. 



Phytochemistry 19(1980) :689-91. 

"Weitere Isocedren-derivate aus Trixis paradoxa." Phytochemistry 



18(1979) :855-57. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 401 



Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. "Neue Acetylen- 
verbindungen aus Chrysothamnus parryi." Phytochemistry 18(1979) :1519-21. 

. "Neue Amide aus Spilanth.es alba." Phytochemistry 19(1980) :1535-37. 

. "Neue Cadinen- und Norcadinen-derivate aus Heterotheca grandiflora." 

Phytochemistry 18(1979) :1675-80. 

Calderon, Cleofe E., and Soderstrom, Thomas R. "The Genera of Bambusoideae 
(Poaceae) of the American Continent: Keys and Comments." Smithsonian 
Contributions to Botany 44. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1980. 

Cowan, Richard S. "Leguminosae/Caesalpinioideae." In Index Nominum Cen- 
ericorum (Plantarum), eds. E. R. Farr, J. A. Leussink, and F. A. Stafleu. 
Utrecht and The Hague: Bohn, Scheltema & Holkema, 1979. 

Cuatrecasas, Jose. "Comparacion Fitogeografica de Paramos entre Varias Cor- 
dilleras. In El Medio Ambiente Paramo, Actas del Seminario de Merida, 
Venezuela, pp. 89-99, November 1978 ed. Caracas: Centro Estudios Avan- 
zados, 1979. 

. "Growth Forms of the Espeletiinae and Their Correlation to Vegetation 

Types of the High Tropical Andes." In Tropical Botany, eds. K. Larsen and 
L. B. Holm-Nielsen, pp. 397-410. London: Academic Press, 1979. 

"La Inflorescencia en la Taxonomia de las Espeletiinae (Heliantheae, 



Compositae)." In Memorias, VI Congreso Venezolano de Botanica, U.C.V., 
pp. 191-94. Maracay, Venezuela: Facultad de Agronomia, 1980. 

"Miscellaneous Notes on Neotropical Flora XI." Phytologia 45(1) 



(February 1980) :17-29. 
Edwards, Phyllis; White, James J.; Nicolson, Dan H.; and Kiger, Robert W. 

Indian Botanical Paintings. Pittsburgh: The Hunt Institute for Botanical 

Documentation, Carnegie-Mellon University, 1980. 
Faden, Robert B. "The Taxonomy and Nomenclature of Some Asiatic Species 

of Murdannia (Commelinaceae) : The Identity of Commelina medica Lour. 

and Commelina tuberosa Lour." Taxon 29(1)(1980) :71-83. 
Fosberg, F. R. "Phytogeography of Micronesian Mangroves." In Proceedings 

of International Symposium of Biological Management of Mangroves, pp. 

23-42. Gainesville, Fla.: The University of Florida Press, 1975. 
. "Tropical Floristic Botany — Concepts and Status — with Special Atten- 
tion to Tropical Islands." In Tropical Botany, pp. 89-105. London: Academic 

Press, 1979. 

'Whither Terrestrial Ecosystems?" In Preservation of the Habitat of 



Man. Growth without Ecodisasters?, pp. 64-93. London and Basingstoke: 

MacMillan Press, 1980. 
Fosberg, F. R.; Otobed, D.; Sachet, M.-H.; Oliver, R. L.; Powell, D. A.; and 

Canfield, J. E. Vascular Plants of Palau with Vernacular Names. 
Fosberg, F. R., and Renvoize, S. A. "The Flora of Aldabra and Neighbouring 

Islands." Kew Bulletin Additional Series VII. London: Her Majesty's Station- 
ary Office, 1980. 
Fosberg, F. R., and Sachet, M.-H. "Maesa (Myrsinaceae) in Micronesia." 

Phytologia 44(5)(1979) :362-69. 
. "Systematic Studies of Micronesian Plants." Smithsonian Contributions 

to Botany 45. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 
Hale, Mason E. "Generic Delimitation in the Lichen Family Thelotremataceae." 

Mycotaxon 11(1) (1980) :130-38. 
. "The Lichen Genus Relicina (Parmeliaceae) in India and Sri Lanka." 

Bryologist 83(1980) :77-78. 

"Taxonomy and Distribution of the Parmelia flaventior Group 



(Lichens: Parmeliaceae)." Journal of the Hattori Botanical Lab 47(1980): 
75-84. 
King, R. M., and Robinson, H. "Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). 



402 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



CLXXVIII. Additions to Eitenia and Lomatocoma." Phytologia 44(7) (1979): 
455-62. 

-. "Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CLXXXIV. A New Species of 



Arrojadocharis." Phytologia 44(7) (1979) :463-65. 

"Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CLXXXV. Additions to the 



Genus Lasiolaena." Phytologia 44(7) (1979) :466-72. 

-. "Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CLXXXVI. A Review of the 



Genus Stylotrichum." Phytologia 45(2) (1980) :101-4. 

'Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CLXXXVII. Additions to 



Trichogonia and Trichogoniopsis." Phytologia 45(2)(1980) :105-23. 

"Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CLXXXVIII. New Species of 



Mikania from Brasil." Phytologia 45(2) (1980) :124-41. 

-. "Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CLXXXIX. Additions to Acri- 



topappus." Phytologia 45 (2) (1980) :142-57. 

-. "Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXC. A New Genus San- 



tosia." Phytologia 45(6) (1980) :463-66. 

King, R. M.; Robinson, H.; and Barroso, G. M. "Studies in the Eupatorieae 
(Asteraceae). CLXXVII. A New Genus, Morithamnus." Phytologia 44(7) 
(1979) :451-54. 

Kirkbride, Joseph H., Jr. "Revision of the Genus Psyllocarpus (Rubiaceae)." 
Smithsonian Contributions to Botany 41. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian 
Institution Press, 1979. 

Krai, R., and Smith, Lyman B. "Xyridaceae Brasiliae — I." Bradea 3 (9) (April 
1980) :57-64. 

Lellinger, D. B. "New Names for Polypodium chnoodes and P. dissimile." 
American Pern Journal 70(March 1980) :30. 

Little, Elbert L., Jr. The Audubon Society Field Guide to North American Trees. 
2 vols. Eastern Region, Western Region. New York: Knopf, 1980. 

. Checklist of United States Trees (Native and Naturalized). U.S. De- 
partment of Agriculture Handbook no. 541. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, 1979. 

Forest Trees of the United States and Canada and How to Identify 



Them. New York: Dover, 1980. 
Nicolson, Dan H. "Key to Identification of Effectively/Ineffectively Published 

Material." Taxon 29(4) (August 1980) :485-88. 
. "Moullava (Rheede) Adanson, Recently Wagatea Dalzell (Fabaceae/ 

Caesalpinoideae)." In Botany and History of Hortus Malabaricus, ed. K. S. 

Manilal, pp. 181-85. New Delhi, India: Oxford and IBH Publ. Co., 1980. 
'Point of View on Pseudolarix." Taxon 29(2/3) (1980) :318. 



Nicolson, Dan H., and Sivadasan, M. "Identification of Gomphrena hispida 
Linnaeus with Acrocephalus (Lamiaceae)." Taxon 29(2/3) (1980) :324-25. 

Nowicke, Joan W., and Skvarla, John J. "Pollen Morphology: The Potential 
Influence in Higher Order Systematics." Annals of the Missouri Botanical 
Garden 66(4) (1979) :633-700. 

Parker, K. F. "New combinations in Tetraneuris Green (Heliantheae, Aster- 
aceae)." Phytologia 45 (6) (June 1980) :467. 

Read, R. W. "Notes on Palmae, I." Phytologia 46(August 1980) :285-87. 

Robinson, H. "Five New Species of Vernonia from Brasil." Phytologia 46(2) 
(1980) :107-19. 

. "Harthamnus, a New Genus of Mutisieae from Bolivia (Asteraceae)." 

Phytologia 45(6) (1980) :451-55. 

"A New Species of Philonotis from Bolivia (Musci: Bartramiaceae)." 



Phytologia 45 (6) (1980) :460-62. 

-. "New Species of Vernonieae (Asteraceae). II. Five New Species of 



Vernonia from Bahia." Phytologia 44(4) (1979) :287-99. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 403 



. "New Species of Vernonieae (Asteraceae). III. Additions to Pipto- 

carpha." Phytologia 44(4) (1979) :300-6. 

"New Species of Vernonieae (Asteraceae). IV. Three Additions to 



Vernonia from Ecuador and Peru." Phytologia 45(2) (1980) :158-65. 

"New Species of Vernonieae (Asteraceae). V. Additions to Vernonia 



from Brasil." Phytologia 45(2) (1980) :166-208. 

"New Species of Vernonieae (Asteraceae). VI. Lychnophora souzae." 



Phytologia 46(2) (1980) :104-6. 

"Notes on the Lychnophorine Genera Chresta and Eremanthus 



(Vernonieae: Asteraceae)." Phytologia 45(2) (1980) :89-100. 

"Studies in Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXI. Additions to Alloispermum, 



Calinsoga, and Tridax." Phytologia 44(7) (1979) :425-35. 

"Studies in Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXII. Two New Species of Calea 



from Brasil." Phytologia 44(7) (1979) :436-41. 

'Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXIII. New Andean Species 



of Verbesina and Viguiera." Phytologia 45 (6) (1980) :456-59. 

"Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXIV, A New Subtribe, 



Lycapsinae." Phytologia 46(2) (1980) :120. 

-. "Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XVIII. A New Genus Heli- 



anthopsis." Phytologia 44(4) (1979) :257-69. 

"Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XIX. Four New Species of 



Calea from Brasil." Phytologia 44(4) (1979) :270-79. 

"Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XX. Notes and New Species 



in Clibadium." Phytologia 44(4) (1979) :280-86. 

"Studies in the Liabeae (Asteraceae). XIV. New Species of Liabum and 



Oligactis." Phytologia 46(2) (1980) :99-103. 

-. "Three New Species of Thrypticus from Maryland (Diptera: Dolich- 



opodidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 82(3) 
(1980): 469-73. 

"Two New Genera of Vernonieae (Asteraceae) from Brasil, Heterocyp- 



sela and Pseudostifftia." Phytologia 44(7) (1979) :442-50. 
Robinson, H., and King, R. M. "Mattfeldanthus mutisiodes gen. et spec. nov. 

(Asteraceae: Vernonieae) from Bahia, Brazil." Willdenowia 9(1) (1979) :9-12. 
Sandved, Kjell B., and Emsley, Michael. Rain Forests and Cloud Forests. New 

York: Harry N. Abrams, 1979. 
Simpson, Beryl B. "A Revision of the Genus Polylepis (Rosaceae: Sangui- 

sorbeae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Botany 43. Washington, D.C.: 

Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 
Skog, Laurence E. "Allergies to Gesneriads." The Cloxinian 30(1) (1980) :11-12. 
. "Developments in the Study of the Chinese Gesneriaceae." The 

Cloxinian 29(5) (1979) :28-29. 

"Hunting for Gesneriads." The Light Touch 10(3) (1980) :2-3. 



Smith, Lyman B. "Julian A. Steyermark." Journal of the Bromeliad Society 
29(5) (October 1979) :195-201. 

Smith, Lyman B., and Downs, R. J. "Bromelioideae, Bromeliaceae." Flora 
Neotropica, Monograph no. 14, pt. 3 (December 1979) : 1493-2142. 

Smith, Lyman B., and Wasshausen, D. C. "Begonia of Ecuador." Phytologia 
44(4) (October 1979) :233-56. 

Soderstrom, Thomas R., and Calderon, C. E. " Arberella (Poaceae: Bambu- 
soideae) : A New Genus from Tropical America." Brittonia 31 (4) (October- 
December 1979) :433-45. 

. "A Commentary on the Bamboos (Poaceae: Bambusoideae). Biotropica 

11(3) (September 1979) :161-72. 

"Ecology and Phytosociology of Bamboo Vegetation." In Ecology of 



Grasslands and Bamboolands in the Worlds, ed. M. Numata, pp. 223-36. 
Jena: VEG Gustav Fischer Verlag, 1979. 



404 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Wurdack, John J. "Certamen Melastomataceis XXXI." Phytologia 45(4)(1980): 

321-35. 

. "Duas Poligalaceas Novas da Bahia." Bradea 3(3) (1979) :17-19. 

Zdero, C; Bohlmann, F.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. "Neue Furanoeremo- 

philane aus Cynoxys dielsiana." Phytochemistry 19(1980) -.975-76. 

Department of Entomology 

Bueno-Soria, Joaquin, and Oliver S. Flint, Jr., "Catalogo Sistematico de los 
Trichopteros de Mexico (Insecta: Trichoptera), con algunos Registros de 
Norte, Centro y Sudamerica." Anales del Instituto de Biologia, Universidad 
Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, Serie Zoologia, vol. 49 (1980 [1978]), pp. 
189-218. 

Burns, John M. "Oedipus Curtailed." Perspectives in Biology and Medicine, 
vol. 22, no. 2, part 1 (1979), page 169. 

. "Finite Wisdom." Perspectives in Biology and Medicine, vol. 22, no. 2, 

part 1 (1979), page 249. 

-. "Homage to P. J. Darlington, Jr." In Carabid Beetles: Their Evolution, 



Natural History, and Classification, eds. T. L. Erwin, G. E. Ball, D. R. White- 
head, and A. L. Halpern. [facing title page] The Hague: W. Junk (1979). 
-. "Gutless Wonder," "To a Lonely Hermaphrodite," and "Evolution of 



Auditory Ossicles." In An Introduction to Animal Diversity: A Laboratory 
Manual, by W. R. Tschinkel, P. C. Hayward, B. M. Mahoney, and B. E. 
Felgenhauer, pages 25, 54, and 155. Minneapolis: Burgess Publishing Co. 
(1980). 

. "Bone Man." MCZ Newsletter, 9(2) (1980) :4-5. 

-. "Conform." In Selected Readings in Sociobiology, by J. H. Hunt, page 



vi. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1980. 

Clarke, J. F. G. "Notes on Chilean Oecophoridae." Journal of the Lepidoptera 
Society 33(20) (1979) :39-43. 

Emerson, K. C, and Roger D. Price. "Two New Species of Bovicola (Mallo- 
phaga: Trichodectidae)." Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 52 
(1979) :747-50. 

Erwin, T. L. "The American Connection, Past and Present, as a Model Blend- 
ing Dispersal and Vicariance in the Study of Biogeography." In Carabid 
Beetles: Their Evolution, Natural History, and Classification. Proceedings of 
the First International Symposium of Carabidology, eds. T. L. Erwin, G. E. 
Ball, D. R. Whitehead, and A. L. Halpern, pp. 355-67. The Hague: Dr. W. 
Junk b. v. Publishers, 1979. 

. "A Review of the Natural History and Evolution of Ectoparasitoid 

Relationships in Carabid Beetles." In Carabid Beetles: Their Evolution, 
Natural History, and Classification. Proceedings of the First International 
Symposium of Carabidology, eds. T. L. Erwin, G. E. Ball, D. R. Whitehead, 
and A. L. Halpern, pp. 479-84. The Hague: Dr. W. Junk b. v. Publishers, 
1979. 

-. "Thoughts on the Evolutionary History of Ground Beetles: Hypotheses 



Generated from Comparative Faunal Analyses of Lowland Forest Sites in 
Temperate and Tropical Regions." In Carabid Beetles: Their Evolution, 
Natural History, and Classification. Proceedings of the First International 
Symposium of Carabidology, eds. T. L. Erwin, G. E. Ball, D. R. Whitehead, 
and A. L. Halpern, pp. 539-92. The Hague: Dr. W. Junk b. v. Publishers, 
1979. 

'Systematic and Zoogeographic Notes on Apotomini, an Old World 



Faunal Element New to the Western Hemisphere List, with a Description of 
a New Species from Brazil (Coleoptera: Carabidae)." Coleopterisfs Bulletin 
34(1) (1980) :99-104. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 405 



Erwin, T. L.; Ball, G. E.; Whitehead, D. R.; and Halpern, A. L. editors. Carabid 
Beetles: Their Evolution, Natural History, and Classification. Proceedings of 
the First International Symposium of Carabidology. The Hague: Dr. W. Junk 
b. v. Publishers, 1979. 

Faran, M. E. "The Importance of an Integrated Approach in Solving a Problem 
in Mosquito Systematics." Mosquito Systematics 11(1979) :280-88. 

. "Mosquito Studies (Diptera: Culicidae) XXXIV. A Revision of the 

Albimanus Section of the Subgenus Nyssorhynchus of Anopheles. Contribu- 
tions of American Entomological Institute 15(7) (1980) :1-214. 

Flint, Oliver S., Jr. "Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XXIII: New Genera 
from the Chilean Region." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Wash- 
ington 92(1979) :640-49. 

Flint, Oliver S., Jr., and Bueno-Soria, Joaquin. "Studies of Neotropical Caddis- 
flies, XXLV: The Genus Macronema in Mesoamerica (Trichoptera : Hydro- 
psychidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 81 
(1979) :522-35. 

Flint, Oliver S., Jr.; Voshell, J. Reese, Jr.; and Parker, Charles R. "The Hydro- 
psyche scalaris Group in Virginia, with the Description of Two New Species 
(Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of 
Washington 92(1979) :827-62. 

Flint, Oliver S., Jr., and Wallace, J. Bruce. "Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, 
XXV: The Immature Stages of Blepharopus diaphanus and Leptonema 
columbianum (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae)." Proceedings of the Biological 
Society of Washington 93(1980) :178-93. 

Froeschner, Richard C. "Heteroptera in an Oft-overlooked Paper of P. R. Uhler 
(Hemiptera)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 
81(4) (1980) :653-56. 

. "Is Esperanza texana Barber (Hemiptera: Alydidae) Extending Its 

Range?" Entomological News 91(3)(1980) :92. 

Gordon, Robert D., and Cartwright, O. L. "The Western Hemisphere Species 
of Rhyssemus and Trichiorhyssemus (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae)." Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Zoology 317. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian In- 
stitution Press, 1980. 

Grant, Verne, and Hurd, Paul D., Jr. "Pollination of the Southwestern 
Opuntias." Plants, Systematics, and Evolution 133(1979) :15-28. 

Grant, Verne; Grant, Karen A.; and Hurd, Paul D., Jr. "Pollination of Opuntia 
lindheimeri and Related Species." Plants, Systematics, and Evolution 132 
(1979) :313-20. 

Huang, Yiau-Min. "Aedes (Stegomyia) simpsoni Complex in the Ethiopian 
Region with Lectotype Designation for simpsoni Theobald (Diptera: Culi- 
cidae)." Mosquito Systematics 11(1979) :221-34. 

Huang, Yiau-Min, and Hitchcock, James C. "Medical Entomology Studies — XII. 
A Revision of Aedes scutellaris group of Tonga (Diptera: Culicidae)." Con- 
tributions of the American Entomological Institute, 17(3) (1980) :1-107. 

Krombein, K. V. "Studies in the Tiphiidae, XII. A New Genus of Methochinae 
with Notes on the Subgenera of Methocha Latreille (Hymenoptera Acu- 
leata.)" Proceedings of the Entomolgical Society of Washington 81(1979): 
424-34. 

. "Biosystematic Studies in the Tiphiidae, XII. A New Genus of Metho- 
chinae with Notes on the Subgenera of Methocha Latreille (Hymenoptera 
Aculeata)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 81 
(1979) :465-74. 

Krombein, K. V.; Hurd, Paul D., Jr.; and Smith, D. R. Catalog of Hymenoptera 
in America North of Mexico, vol. 3, Indexes, pp. v-xxx and 2211-1735. Wash- 
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 



406 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Masteller, E. C, and Flint, Oliver S., Jr. "Light Trap and Emergence Trap 
Records of Caddisflies (Trichoptera) of the Lake Erie Region of Pennsyl- 
vania and Adjacent Ohio." Great Lakes Entomologist 12(1979) -.165-77 . 

Mathis, Wayne N. "Parascatella of Ecuador (Diptera: Ephydridae)." Proceed- 
ings of the Entomological Society of Washington 81(4) (1979) :602-10. 

. "Ephydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae): A New Perspective." In First 

Symposium on Systematics and Ecology of Ephydridae (Diptera), ed. D. L. 
Deonier, pp. 47-60. The North American Benthological Society, 1979. 

"Studies of Ephydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), III: Revisions of Some 



Neotropical Genera and Species." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 
303. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Mathis, Wayne N., and Steyskal, George C. "A Revision of the Genus Oedo- 
parena Curran (Diptera: Dryomyzidae: Dryomyzinae)." Proceedings of the 
Entomological Society of Washington 82(3) (1980) :349-59. 

Mathis, Wayne N., and Wirth, Willis W. "Beach Flies of Madagascar (Diptera: 
Canacidae)." Annals of the Natal Museum 23(3) (1979) :785-96. 

Mathis, Wayne N., and Zack, Richard S. "A New Species of Limnellia Malloch 
(Diptera: Ephydridae) from Mt. Rainier." Entomological News 91(3)(1980): 
65-67. 

Peyton, E. L.; Jayasekera, Nalin; and Chelliah, Robert V. "The Biology and 
Immature Stages of Uranotaenia (Pseudoflicalbia) srilankensis Peyton 
(Diptera: Culicidae)." Mosquito Systematics 11(1980) :7-24. 

Sirivanakarn, S., and Belkin, John N. "The Identity of Culex (Melanoconion) 
taeniopus Dyar and Knab and Related Species (Diptera: Culicidae)." Mos- 
quito Systematics 12(1980) :7-24. 

Sirivanakarn, S., and Galindo, Pedro. "Culex (Melanoconion) adamesi, a New 
Species from Panama (Diptera: Culicidae)." Mosquito Systematics 12(1980): 
25-34. 

Sirivanakarn, S., and Heinemann, Sandra J. "Description of the Hitherto Un- 
known Adult and Pupa of Culex (Melanoconion) simulator Dyar and Knab, 
and Redescription of its Larva (Diptera: Culicidae)." Mosquito Systematics 
12(1980) :41-49. 

Spangler, P. J. "A New Genus of Water Beetle from Austral South America 
(Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Wash- 
ington 92(4) (1979) :697-718. 

. "Description of the Larva and Pupa of Cylorygmus lineatopunctatus 

(Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae: Rygodini)." Proceedings of the Biological Society 
of Washington 92(4) (1979) :743-52. 

-. "A New Genus of Madicolous Beetle from Ecuador (Coleoptera: Hydro- 



philidae: Hydrobiinae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 
92(4) (1979) :753-61. 

-. "Hydramara argentina, a Description of its Larva and a Report on its 



Distribution (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological 
Society of Washington 81(4)(1979) :536-43. 

-. "A New Species of the Riffle Beetle Genus Portelmis from Ecuador 



(Coleoptera: Elmidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Wash- 
ington 82(1) (1980) :63-68. 

-. "Onopelmus, a New Genus of Dryopid Beetle from Peru (Coleoptera: 



Dryopidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 82(2) 
(1980) :161-65. 

"Two New Species of the Water Beetle Genus Hydraena from Cuba 



(Coleoptera: Hydraenidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of 
Washington 82(2) (1980) :329-33. 

"Chelonariid Larva, Aquatic or Not? (Coleoptera: Chelonariidae)," 



Coleopterist Bulletin 34(1) (1980) :105-14. 
. "Aquatic and Semiaquatic Coleoptera." In Aquatic Biota of Tropical 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 407 



South America, eds. S. H. Hurlbert, G. Rodriquez, and N. D. Dos Santos. 
San Diego, Calif.: San Diego State University, 1980. 

"A New Species of Ytu from Brazil (Coleoptera: Torridincolidae)." 



Coleopterist Bulletin 34(2) (1980) :145-58. 

Traub, R. "New Genera and Subgenera of Pygiopsyllid Fleas (Siphonaptera)." 
In Proceedings of the International Conference on Fleas, Ashton, England, 
1977, eds. R. Traub and H. Starcke, pp. 13-29. Rotterdam: A. A. Balkema, 
1980. 

. "Some Adaptive Modifications in Fleas." In Proceedings of the Inter- 
national Conference on Fleas, Ashton, England, 1977, eds. R. Traub and H. 
Starcke, pp. 44-68. Rotterdam, A. A. Balkema, 1980. 

"The Zoogeography and Evolution of Some Fleas, Lice and Mammals. 



In Proceedings of the International Conference on Fleas, Ashton, England, 
1977, eds. R. Traub and H. Starcke, pp. 93-172. Rotterdam: A. A. Balkema, 
1980. 

Traub, R., and Starcke, H., editors. Proceedings of the International Confer- 
ence on Fleas, Ashton, England, June 1977. Rotterdam: A. A. Balkema, 1980. 

Traub, R.; Wisseman, C. L., Jr.; and Farhang-Azad, A. "The Ecology of Murine 
Typhus." In Proceedings of the International Conference on Fleas, Ashton, 
England, 1977, eds. R. Traub and H. Starcke, pp. 277-79. Rotterdam: 
A. A. Balkema, 1980. 

Wirth, Willis, W., and Mathis, Wayne N. "A Review of the Ephydridae 
(Diptera) Living in Thermal Springs." In First Symposium on the Systematics 
and Ecology of Ephydridae (Diptera), ed. D. L. Deonier, pp. 21-45. The North 
American Benthological Society, 1979. 

Department of Invertebrate Zoology 

Barnard, J. L. "Revision of American Species of the Marine Amphipod Genus 

Paraphoxus (Gammaridea: Phoxocephalidae)." Proceedings of the Biological 

Society of Washington 92(2) (1979) :368-79. 
. "Revision of Metharpinia and Microphoxus, (Marine Phoxocephalid 

Amphipoda from the Americas." Proceedings of the Biological Society of 

Washington 93(1) (1980) :104-35. 

"The Genus Crandifoxus (Crustacea, Amphipoda, Phoxocephalideae) 



from the Northeastern Pacific Ocean." Proceedings of the Biological Society 
of Washington 93(2) (1980) :490-514. 

"Arthropoda: Crustacea, Amphipoda (Amphipods)." In Common Inter- 



tidal Invertebrates of the Gulf of California, ed. Richard C. Brusca, pp. 214- 

19. Tucson, Ariz.: University of Arizona Press, 1980. 
Bayer, Frederick M. "The Correct Name of the Helioporan Octocoral Litho- 

telesto micropora Bayer & Muzik." Proceedings of the Biological Society of 

Washington 92(4) (1979) :873-75. 
. "Distichogorgia sconsa, A New Genus and Species of Chrysogorgiid 

Octocoral (Coelenterata : Anthozoa) from the Blake Plateau off Northern 

Florida." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 92(4) (1979): 

876-82. 

." Armadillo gorgia cyathella and Ophidiogorgia paradoxa, Two New 



Genera and Species of Primnoid Octocorals (Coelenterata: Anthozoa) from 
South Georgia and South Orkney Islands." Proceedings of the Biological So- 
ciety of Washington 93(1) (1980) :216-28. 

Bowman, Thomas E. "Notodiaptomus caperatus, A New Calanoid Copepod 
from Phreatic Groundwater in Barbuda (Crustacea: Diaptomidae." Bijdragen 
tot die Dierkunde 49(2) (1979) :219-26. 

. " Antromysis (Surinamysis) merista, A New Freshwater Mysid from 

Venezuela (Crustacea: Mysidacea)." Proceedings of the Biological Society 
of Washington 93(1) (1980) :208-15. 



408 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Bowman, Thomas E., and Morris, Byron F. "Carpias Richardson 1902, A Senior 
Synonym of Bagatus Nobili 1906, and the Validity of Carpias minutus 
(Richardson 1902) (Isopoda: Asellota: Janiridae)." Proceedings of the Bio- 
logical Society of Washington 92(3) (1979) :650-57. 

Christenberry, D., and Higgins, R. P. "A New Species of Pseudodiphascon 
(Tardigrada) from Alabama." Transactions of the American Microscopical 
Society 98(4) (1979) :508-14. 

Clarke, A. H. "Further Comments on the Proposed Designation of a Type Spe- 
cies for Pleurocera Rafinesque, 1818 (Z.N. (S.)183)." Bulletin of Zoological 
Nomenclature 36(3) (1979) :140-41. 

. "Gastropods as Indicators of Trophic Lake Stages." The Nautilus 

94(4) (1979) :138-42. 

-.. "Sphaeriidae as Indicators of Trophic Lake Stages." The Nautilus 



94(4) (1979) :178-84. 

Cressey, R. F., and Cressey, H. B. "The Parasitic Copepods of Indo-West Pa- 
cific Lizard Fishes (Synodontidae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 
296. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

. "Parasitic Copepods of Mackerel- and Tuna-like Fishes (Scombridae) 

of the World." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 311. Washington, 
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

DeLanney, L.; Chang, S. C; Harshbarger, J.; and Dawe, C. J. "Mast Cell Tu- 
mors in the Caudate Amphibian, Ambystoma mexicanum." In Advances in 
Comparative Leukemia Research, eds. D. Yohn, B. Lapin, and J. Blakeslee, 
pp. 221-22. New York: Elsevier, 1980. 

Downey, Maureen E. "Hymenaster kieri, A New Species of Starfish of the 
Family Pterasteridae (Echinodermata: Asteroidea)." Proceedings of the Bio- 
logical Society of Washington 92(4) (1979) :801-3. 

Fauchald, K., and Jumars, P. A. "The Diet of Worms: A Study of Polychaete 
Feeding Guilds." Oceanography and Marine Biology, An Annual Review 
19:193-284. 

Ferrari, Frank D., and Bowman, Thomas E. "Pelagic Copepods of the Family 
Oithonidae (Cyclopoida) from the East Coasts of Central and South Amer- 
ica." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 312, pp. i-iii, 1-27. Washington, 
D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Harshbarger, J. C; Jacobson, E. R.; Smith, C. E.; and Couch, J. A. "Hemato- 
poietic Neoplasms in Invertebrates and Cold-blooded Vertebrates." In Ad- 
vances in Comparative Leukemia Research, eds. D. Yohn, B. Lapin, and J. 
Blakeslee, pp. 223-25. New York: Elsevier, 1980. 

Harshbarger, J. C; Otto, S. V.; Chang, S. C. "Proliferative Disorders in Crasso- 
strea virginica and My a arenaria from the Chesapeake Bay and Intra-nuclear 
Virus-like Inclusions in Mya arenaria with Germinomas from a Maine Oil 
Spill Site." Haliotis, 8(1979) :243-48. 

Hart, C. W., Jr. "A New Atyid Shrimp, Palauatya dasyomma, from Palau, 
Caroline Island." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(2) 
(1980) :481-89. 

. "New Freshwater Shrimp Records for Tobago, West Indies, with a 

Summary of Records for the Lesser Antilles (Atyidae and Palaemonidae)." 
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(3) (1980) :845-48. 

Higgins, R. P., and Fleeger, J. W. "Seasonal Changes in the Population Struc- 
ture of Echinoderes coulli (Kinorhyncha)." Estuarine and Coastal Marine 
Science 10(1980) :495-505. 

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr. "A New Crayfish from the Ouachita River Basin in 
Arkansas (Decapoda: Cambaridae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society 
of Washington 92(4) (1979) :804-ll. 

. " Atya gabonensis (Decapoda, Atyidae) in the Western Hemisphere." 

In Crustaceana 38(pt. 1)(1980) :111. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 409 



. "New Dwarf Crayfishes (Decapoda: Cambaridae) from Mexico and 

Florida." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 92(1) (1980): 
194-207. 

Hobbs, Horton, H., Jr., and Peters, Daniel J. "A Substitute Name for the Hom- 
onym Aphelocythere Hobbs and Peters (Ostracoda, Entocytheridae)." Pro- 
ceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 91 (4) (1979) :1037. 

Houbrick, R. S. "Reproductive Biology of Modulus modulus Linnaeus, 1758 
(Prosobranchia: Cerithiacea)." Bulletin of the American Malacological 
Union, Inc., p. 10, 1979. 

. "Review of the Deep-Sea Genus Argyropeza (Gastropoda: Prosobran- 
chia: Cerithiidae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 321. Washing- 
ton, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

-. "Observations on the Anatomy and Life History of Modulus modulus 



(Linnaeus) [Prosobranchia: Gastropoda]." Malacologia, 19(1) (1980) :117-42. 

Kenk, Roman. "Freshwater Triclads (Turbellaria) of North America. XL Pha- 
gocata holleri, New Species, from a Cave in North Carolina." Proceedings 
of the Biological Society of Washington 92(1979) :389-93. 

. "Freshwater Triclads (Turbellaria) of North America. XII. Another 

New Cave Planarian from North Carolina." Brimleyana, 2(1979) :91-96. 

Kensley, Brian. "Redescription of Haliophasma barnardi (Monod) from West 
Africa (Crustacea: Isopoda: Anthuridae)." Proceedings of the Biological 
Society of Washington 92(1979) :658-64. 

. "Redescription of Zonophryxus trilobus Richardson, with Notes on the 

Male and Developmental Stages (Crustasea: Isopoda: Dajidae)." Proceed- 
ings of the Biological Society of Washington 92(1979) :665-70. 

"New Species of Anthurideans from the Cook and Fiji Islands (Cru- 



stacea: Isopoda: Anthuridea)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of 
Washington 92(1979) :814-36. 

-. "A New Species of Munna Kroyer from Nigeria (Crustacea: Isopoda: 



Munnidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(1980): 
136-40. 

"Anthuridean Isopod Crustaceans from the International Indian Ocean 



Expedition, 1960-1965, in the Smithsonian Collections." Smithsonian Con- 
tributions to Zoology 304. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 
1980. 

-. "The Constitution of the Fauna of Rocky Intertidal Shores of South 



West Africa. Part III. The North Coast from False Cape Frio to the Kunene 
River." Cimbebasia, ser. A., vol. 5, pp. 201-14, 1980. 

Kornicker, Louis S. "The Marine Fauna of New Zealand: Benthic Ostracoda 
(Suborder Myodocopina)." New Zealand Oceanographic Institute Memoir 
82, 1979. 

. "Ostracoda." In The Encyclopedia of Paleontology, edited by R. W. 

Fairbridge and D. Jablonski, pp. 499-504. Penn.: Dowden, Hutchinson & 
Ross, Inc., 1979. 

Kornicker, Louis S., and Caraion, Francisca Elena "Nealella, a New Genus of 
Myodocopid Ostracoda (Sarsiellidae: Dantyinae)." Smithsonian Contribu- 
tions to Zoology 309. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Lewinsohn, Ch., and Manning, Raymond B. "Stomatopod Crustacea from the 
Eastern Mediterranean." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 305. Wash- 
ington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Manning, Raymond B. "The Superfamilies, Families and Genera of Recent 
Stomatopod Crustacea, with Diagnoses of Six New Families." Proceedings 
of the Biological Society of Washington 93(2) (1980) :362-72. 

. "Pullosquilla thomassini Manning 1978 New to the Red Sea (Crusta- 
cea: Stomatopoda)." Senckenbergiana biologica 60(3/4) (1980) :269-70. 



410 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Manning, Raymond B., and Blow, Warren C. "Henry B. Roberts 1 September 
1910-14 March 1979." Crustaceana 39(1) (1980) :104-7. 

Manning, Raymond B., and Froglia, C. "Description of a New Allosquilla with 
Notes on Other Adriatic Stomatopod Crustacea." Quaderni del Laboratorio 
di Tecnologia della Pesca 2(4) (1979) :177-90. 

Otto, S. V.; Harshbarger, J. C; Chang, 5. C. "Status of Selected Unicellular 
Eucaryote Pathogens, and Prevalence and Histopathology of Inclusions Con- 
taining Obligate Procaryote Parasites, in Commercial Bivalve Mollusks from 
Maryland Estuaries." Haliotis 8(1979) :285-95. 

Pawson, David L. "Sea Urchins." Bermuda Biological Station Newsletter 8(3) 
(1979) :2. 

Pawson, David L., and Caycedo, I. E. "Holothuria (Thymiosycia) thomasi New 
Species, a Large Caribbean Coral Reef Inhabiting Sea Cucumber (Echino- 
dermata: Holothuroidea)." Bulletin of Marine Science 30(2) (1980) :454-59. 

Pawson, David L., and Miller, J. E. "Secondary Sex Characters in Coelopleurus 
floridanus A. Agassiz 1872 (Enchinodermata: Enchinoidea)." Bulletin of Ma- 
rine Science 29(4) (1979) :581-86. 

Pawson, David L., and Phelan, T. F. "Clypeaster kieri, a New Species of Cly- 
peasteroid (Echinodermata: Echinoidea) from off Bombay, India." Proceed- 
ings of the Biological Society of Washington 92(4) (1979) :796-800. 

Rehder, H. A. "Note on Cernohorsky's Application for the Use of the Plenary 
Powers to Designate a Type Species for the Genus Drupella Thiele, 1925." 
Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature 37(pt. 2) (1980) :86-87. 

. "The Marine Mollusks of Easter Island (Isla de Pascua) and Sala y 

Gomez." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 289. Washington, D.C. : 
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Reish, Donald J., and Barnard, J. L. "Amphipods (Arthropoda: Crustacea: 
Amphipoda)." In Pollution Ecology of Estuarine Invertebrates, ed. C. W. 
Hart, Jr., pp. 345-70. New York: Academic Press, 1979. 

Rice, Mary E. "Sipuncula and Echiura." In Intertidal Invertebrates of Califor- 
nia Coast, eds. R. H. Morris, D. P. Abbott, and B. C. Haderlie. Stanford, 
Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1980. 

Rosewater, J. "Predator Boreholes in Periploma margaritacea with a Brief Sur- 
vey of Other Periplomatidae (Bivalvia: Anomalodesmata)." The Veliger 22 
(3)(1980):248-51. 

. "A Close Look at Littorina radulae." Bulletin of the American Malaco- 

logical Union for 1979, pp. 5-8, 1980. 

Rosewater, J.; Morrison, J. P. E.; Clarke, A. H.; Stein, C. B.; and Davis, G. M. 
"Further Comments on the Proposed Designation of a Type Species for 
Pleurocera Rafinesque, 1818.Z.N.(S)83." Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature 
36(pt. 3)(1979):139-46. 

Rosewater, J., and Ponder, W. F. "Rectifications in the Nomenclature of Some 
Indo-Pacific Littorinidae." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Wash- 
ington 92(4) (1979) :773-82. 

Riietzler, K.; Ferraris, J. D.; and Larson, R. J. "A New Plankton Sampler for 
Coral Reefs." Marine Ecology 1(1980) :81-87. 

Sindermann, C. J.; Bang, F. E.; Christensen, N. O.; Dethlefsen, V.; Harshbar- 
ger, J. C; Mitchell, J. R.; and Mulcahy, M. F. "The Role and Value of 
Pathobiology in Pollution Effects Monitoring Programs." Reports et Proces- 
Verbaux des Reunion Conseil International pour I'Exploration de la Mer 
179(1980) :135-51. 

Sohn, I. G., and Kornicker, Louis S. "Viability of Freeze-Dried Eggs of the 
Freshwater Heterocypris Incongruens." In Proceedings of the Seventh Inter- 
national Symposium on Ostracodes, Taxonomy, Biostratigraphy and Distri- 
bution of Ostracodes, pp. 1-4. Belgrad, Yug. : Serbian Geological Society, 
1979. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I kW 



Department of Mineral Sciences 

Agosto, W. N; Hewins, R. H.; and Clarke, R. S., Jr. "Allan Hills A77219, The 
First Antarctic Mesosiderite." Eleventh Lunar and Planetary Science Con- 
ference Abstracts, pp. 1-3, 1980. 

Beauchamp, R., and Fredriksson, K. "Ivuna and Orgueil C-l Chondrites : A New 
Look." Meteoritics 14(1979) :344. 

Cerny, P.; Hawthorne, F. C; and Jarosewich, E. "Crystal Chemistry of Mila- 
rite." The Canadian Mineralogist 18(1980) :41-57. 

Clarke, R. S., Jr. [Abstract] "Cohenite Growth in Iron Meteorites." Meteoritics 
14(1979) :367-68. 

Clarke, R. S., Jr., and Scott, E. R. D. "Tetrataenite-Ordered FeNi, a New 
Mineral in Meteorites." The American Mineralogist 65(1980) :624-30. 

Desautels, Paul E. Cemstones. Encyclopedia Britannica Yearbook (Industrial 
Review), 1979. 

. Treasures of the Smithsonian: The Gem Collection. Washington, D.C.: 

Smithsonian Institution Press, [new edition] 1980. 

Dodd, R. T., and Jarosewich, E. "Chemical Variation among L-group Chon- 
drites 1. The Apt and Tourinnes-la-gross (L-6) Chondrites." Meteoritics 15 
(1980) :69-83. 

Dodd, R. T., and Jarosewich, E. "Incipient Melting and Shock Classification of 
L-group Chondrites." Earth and Planetary Sciences Letters 44(1979) :335-40. 

Dunn, Pete J. "Carbonate-fluorapatite from near Fairfield, Utah." The Mineral- 
ogical Record 11(1980) :33-34. 

. "Contributions to the Mineralogy of Franklin and Sterling Hill, New 

Jersey." The Mineralogical Record 10(1979) :160-65. 

. "On the Validity of Calderite." The Canadian Mineralogist 17(1979) : 



569-71. 

. "The Chemical Composition of Gageite: An Empirical Formula." The 

American Mineralogist 64(1979) :1056-58. 

Dunn, Pete J.; Keller, P.; and Hess, H. "Die Ladungsbilanz fur eine vergein- 
erte Kristallstruktur von Stranskitt, Zn 2 Cu(As0.i)2." Tschermaks Min. Petr. 
Mitt. 26(1979) :167-74. 

Dunn, Pete J.; Leavens, P. B.; and Barnes, C. "Magnesioaxinite from Luning, 
Nevada, and Some Nomenclature Designations for the Axinite Group." The 
Mineralogical Record 11(1980) :13-15. 

Dunn, Pete J.; Leavens P. B.; Sturman, B. D.; Gaines, R. V.; and Barbosa, 
C. D. P. "Hureaulite and Barbosalite from Lavra do Criminoso, Minas 
Gerais, Brazil." The Mineralogical Record 10(1979) :147-51. 

Dunn, Pete J.; Peacor, D.; and Sturman, B. D. "Kolicite, A New Manganese 
Zinc Silicate Arsenate from Sterling Hill, Ogdensburg, New Jersey." The 
American Mineralogist 64(1979) :708-12. 

Dunn, Pete J.; Peacor, D. R.; and Sturman, B. D. "Lawsonbauerite, A New 
Mineral from the Sterling Hill Mine, New Jersey, and New Data for Tor- 
reyite." The American Mineralogist 64(1979) :949-52. 

Dunn, Pete J.; Peacor, D. R.; White, J. S.; and Ramik, R. A. "Kingsmountite, 
A New Mineral Isostructural with Montgomeryite." The Canadian Mineral- 
ogist 17(1979) :579-82. 

EI Goresy, A.; Nagel, K.; Dominik, B.; Ramdohr, P.; and Mason, Brian. "Ru- 
bearing Phosphate-Molybdates and other Oxidized Phases in Fremdlinge 
in Allende Inclusions." Meteoritics 14(1979) :390-91. 

Fleischer, M. Glossary of Mineral Species, 1980. Bowie, Maryland: Mineral- 
ogical Record, Inc. 1980. 

Fredriksson, K.; Brenner, P.; Dube, A.; Milton, D.; Mooring, C; and Nelen, J. 
"Petrology, Mineralogy, and Distribution of Lonar (India) and Lunar Im- 
pact Breccias and Glasses." Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences 
22. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Fredriksson, K.; Noonan, A.; Jarosewich, E.; Nelen, J.; Darsoprajitno, S.; and 



412 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Padmanagara, S. "Banten, A New C2 Chondrite: Evidence for Impacts on a 
Wet Regolith." Meteoritics 14(1979) :400-401. 

Fredriksson, K., and Wlotzka, F. Krahenberg — ein Schatz aus dem Weltraum 
in Historischen Museum der Pfalz zu Speyer. Pfalzer Heimat Nr. 4(1979): 
121-24. 

Fudali, Robert F., and Ford, R. J. "Darwin Glass and Darwin Crater: A Prog- 
ress Report." Meteoritics 14(3) (1979) :283-96. 

Jarosewich, E.; Nelen, J.; and Norberg, J. "Electron Microprobe Reference 
Samples for Mineral Analyses." Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth 
Sciences 22, pp. 68-72. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 
1979. 

Jarosewich, E.; Nelen, J.; and Norberg, J. "Reference Samples for Electron 
Microprobe Analysis." Geostandards Newsletter 4(1980) :43-47. 

Jarosewich, E.; Parkes, A.; and Wiggins, L. "Microprobe Analyses of Four 
Natural Glasses and One Mineral: An Interlaboratory Study of Precision 
and Accuracy." Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences 22, pp. 53- 
67. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Jezek, P.; Sinton, J.; Jarosewich, E.; and Obermeyer, C. "Fusion of Rock and 
Mineral Powders for Electron Microanalysis." Smithsonian Contributions to 
the Earth Sciences 22, pp. 46-52. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Press, 1979. 

Johnson, P. H.; Score, R. A.; Schwarz, C M.; and Mason, Brian. "Display of 
Some Unusual Meteorites from Antarctica." Lunar and Planetary Science, 
11(1980) :513. 

Kearns, L. E.; Kite, L. E.; Leavens, P. B.; and Nelen, J. "Fluorine Distribution 
in the Hydrous Silicate Minerals of the Franklin Marble, Orange County, 
New York." The American Mineralogist 65(1980) :557-62. 

Keller, P.; Hess, H.; and Dunn, Pete J. "Queitite, PbiZ^SO^SiOrSiaOT, A New 
Mineral from Tsumeb, South West Africa." Neues Jahrbuch Min. Monat. 
(1979) :203-9. 

. "Warikhanite, ZrtsfrHaOMAsOi^] A New Mineral from Tsumeb, South 

West Africa." Neues Jahrbuch Min. Monat. (1979) :389-95. 

Keller, P.; Hess, H.; Siisse, P.; Dunn, Pete J.; and Schnorrer, G. "Koritnigite, 
Zn HO'HOAsOs, ein neues Mineral aus Tsumeb, Sudwestafrika." Tscher- 
maks Min. Petr. Mitt. 26(1979) :51-58. 

King, T. V. V.; Score, R. A.; and Mason, Brian. "An Overview of the 1977-78 
Antarctic Meteorite Collection and a Sneak Preview of the 1978-79 Achon- 
drites." Meteoritics 14(1979) :443-44. 

Marvin, Ursula B., and Mason, Brian, editors. Catalog of Antarctic Meteorites, 
1977-1978. Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences 23. Washington, 
D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Mason, Brian. "Chemical Variation Among Australian Tektites." Smithsonian 
Contributions to the Earth Sciences 22, pp. 14-26. Washington, D.C: Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1979. 

. "Descriptions of Antarctic Meteorites." Antarctic Meteorite News- 
letter 2(3), 3(1 and 2) (1979-1980). 

Mason, Brian; Jarosewich, E.; and Nelen, J. "The Pyroxene-Plagioclase Achon- 
drites." Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences 22, pp. 27-45. 
Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Nakai, Izumi, and Appleman, Daniel E. "Klebelsbergite SbiO^OH^SOi: A 
New Definition and Synthesis." The American Mineralogist 65(1980) :499- 
505. 

Scott, E. R. D., and Clarke, R. S., Jr. "Identification of Clear Taenite in Meteor- 
ites as Ordered FeNi." Annual Report, Department of Terrestrial Magne- 
tism, Carnegie Institution 1978-1979, pp. 409-13, 1979. 

. "Identification of Clear Taenite in Meteorites as Ordered FeNi." 

Nature, 28(1979) :360-62. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 413 



Walenta, K., and Dunn, Pete J. "Ferridravite, A New Member of the Tourma- 
line Group from the San Francisco Mine, Near Villa Tunari, Bolivia." The 
American Mineralogist 64(1979) :945-48. 

Weinke, H. H.; Kiesl, W.; and Clarke, R. S., Jr. [Abstract] "Mineralogical and 
Chemical Investigation of the Waterville Iron Meteorite." Meteoritics, 14 
(1979) :561-64. 

White, J. S. "Boehmite Exsolution in Corundum." The American Mineralogist 
64(1979) :1300-1302. 

. "Lorettoite Discredited and Chubutite Reviewed." The American Min- 
eralogist 64(1979) :1303-1305. 

"Sulfur in Pyrite Crystal-shaped Cavities in Quartz." The Mineralogi- 



cal Record 11(1980) :99-100. 

"Minerals and Rocks." Film produced by Encyclopedia Britannica and 



the American Geological Institute, 1980. 
Wlotzka, F.; Palme, H.; Spettel, B.; Wanke, H.; Fredriksson, K.; and Noonan, 
A. "Krahenberg and Bhola: LL-Chondrites with Differentiated K-rich In- 
clusions." Meteoritics 14(1979) :566. 

Department of Paleobiology 

Adey, W. H. "Crustose Coralline Algae as Microenvironmental Indicators for 
the Tertiary." In Historical Bio geography, Plate Tectonics, and the Changing 
Environment, eds. J. Gray and A. J. Boucot, pp. 459-64. Corvallis, Ore.: 
Oregon State University Press, 1979. 

Adey, W. H.; Rogers, C. S.; and Steneck, R. S. [Integrated progess report] 
The South St. Croix Reef: A Study of Reef Metabolism as Related to En- 
vironmental Factors and an Assessment of Environmental Management, 
submitted to the Virgin Islands Government, 95 pages. Charlotte Amalie, 
Virgin Islands: Marine Systems Laboratory, 1979. 

Benson, R. H. "In Search of Lost Oceans: A Paradox in Discovery." In His- 
torical Biogeography, Plate Tectonics, and the Changing Environment, eds. 
J. Gray and A. J. Boucot, pp. 379-88. Corvallis, Ore.: Oregon State Univer- 
sity Press, 1979. 

Boardman, R. S., and Cheetham, A. H. [225 bryozoan terms] In Glossary of 
Geology, eds. R. L. Bates and J. A. Jackson. Falls Church, Va. : American 
Geological Institute, 1980. 

Buzas, M. A., and Carle, K. J. "Predators of Foraminifera in the Indian River, 
Florida." Journal of Foraminiferal Research 9(4) (1979) :336-40. 

Buzas, M. A., and Culver, S. J. "Foraminifera: Distribution of Provinces in 
the Western North Atlantic." Science 209(4457) (1980) :687-89. 

Cheetham, A. C; Hayek, L. C; and Thomsen, Erik. "Branching Structure in 
Arborescent Animals: Models of Relative Growth." Journal of Theoretical 
Biology 85(2) (1980) :335-69. 

Cifelli, Richard. "The Role of Circulation in the Parcelling and Dispersal of 
North Atlantic Planktonic Foraminifera." In Historical Biogeography, Plate 
Tectonics, and the Changing Environment, eds. J. Gray and A. J. Boucot, 
pp. 417-25. Corvallis, Ore.: Oregon State University Press, 1979. 

Cifelli, Richard, and Glacon, Georgette. "New Late Miocene and Pliocene Oc- 
currences of Globorotalia Species from the North Atlantic; and a Paleo- 
geographic Review." Journal of Foraminiferal Research 9(3) (1979) :210-27. 

Culver, S. J. and Buzas, M. A. "Distribution of Recent Benthic Foraminifera 
off the North American Atlantic Coast." Smithsonian Contributions to the 
Marine Sciences 6. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Emry, R. J. [Book Review] "Evolution of African Mammals," eds. V. J. Maglio 
and H. B. S. Cooke. Journal of Paleontology 54(1) (1980) :267-70. 

Grant, R. E. "The Human Face of the Brachiopod." Journal of Paleontology 
54(3) (1980) :499-507. 



414 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Hickey, L. J. "Paleobotany." Ceotimes 25(2) (1980) :39-40. 

. "Paleocene Stratigraphy and Flora of the Clarks Fork Basin. In Early 

Cenozoic Paleontology and Stratigraphy of the Bighorn Basin, Wyoming: 
1880-1980, ed. P. D. Gingerich, 33-49. University of Michigan Papers in 
Paleontology 24 (1980). 

Hotton, Nicholas, III. [Book Review] The Order Microsauria, by R. L. Carroll 
and Pamela Gaskill. Journal of Paleontology 54(1) (1980) :267. 

. "An Alternative to Dinosaur Endothermy: The Happy Wanderers." In 

A Cold Look at the Warm Blooded Dinosaurs. AAAS Selected Symposium 
28, eds. R. D. K. Thomas and E. C. Olson, pp. 311-50. Boulder, Colo. : West- 
view Press, Inc., 1980. 

Hueber, F. M., and Banks, H. P. "Serrulacaulis furcatus gen. et. sp. nov., A 
New Zosterophyll from the lower Upper Devonian of New York State." 
Review of Paleobotany and Palynology 28(2) (1979) :169-89. 

Kier, P. M. "The Echinoids of the Middle Eocene Warley Hill Formation, San- 
tee Limestone, and Castle Hayne Limestone of North and South Carolina." 
Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology 39. Washington, D.C.: Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Ray, C. E. "Chelonia couperi Harlan, 1842, a Supposed Turtle Based on the 
Clavicle of a Megathere (Mammalia: Edentata)." Notulae Naturae, 455 
(1979):1-16. 

Repenning, C. A.; Ray, C. E.; and Grigorescu, Dan. "Pinniped Biogeography." 
In Historical Biogeography, Plate Tectonics, and the Changing Environment, 
eds. J. Gray and A. J. Boucot, pp. 357-69. Corvallis, Ore.: Oregon State 
University Press, 1979. 

Stanley, D. J. "Maltese Front and Strait of Sicily Ocean Pattern Analysis." In 
Apollo-Soyuz Project, Summary Science Report, eds. Farouk El-Baz and 
D. M. Warner, pp. 431-40. Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration, 1979. 

. "Submarine Canyon Wall Sedimentation and Lateral Infill: Some An- 
cient Examples." Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences 4. Wash- 
ington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

"The Saint-Antonin Conglomerate in the Maritime Alps: A Model for 



Coarse Sedimentation on a Submarine Slope." Smithsonian Contributions 
to the Marine Sciences 5. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 
1980. 

Stanley, D. J., and Blanpied, Christian. "Late Quaternary Water Exchange be- 
tween the Eastern Mediterranean and the Black Sea." Nature 285(5766) 
(1980) :537-41. 

Stanley, D. J.; Rehault, J. P.; and Stuckenrath, Robert. "Turbid-Layer Bypass- 
ing Model: The Corsican Trough, Northwestern Mediterranean." Marine 
Geology 37(1-2) (1980) :19-40. 

Videtich, P. E., and Macintyre, I. G. [Abstract] "Stable Isotopic Analysis of 
Serpulids from a Submarine Cave, Belize Barrier Platform." Geological So- 
ciety of A.merica Abstracts with Programs 11(1) (1979) :57. 

Waller, T. R. [Abstract] "Formation of a Posterodorsal Notch in Larval Oyster 
Shells and the Prodissoconch — I/II Boundary in the Bivalvia." Bulletin of 
the American Malacological Union for 1978, pp. 55-56, (1979). 

. "Scanning Electron Microscopy of Shell and Mantle in the Order 

Arcoida (Mollusca: Bivalvia)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 313. 
Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Department of Vertebrate Zoology 

Bbhlke, James E.; Weitzman, Stanley H.; and Menezes, Naercio A. "Estado 
Atual da Sistematica dos Peixes de Agua Doce da America do Sul." Acta 
Amazonica 8(4) (1979) :657-77. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 415 



Carleton, Michael D. "Taxonomic Status and Relationships of Peromyscus 
boylii from El Salvador. Journal of Mammalogy 60(1979) :280-96. 

. "Phylogenetic Relationships in Neotomine-Peromyscine Rodents (Mu- 

roidea) and a Reappraisal of the Dichotomy within New World Cricetinae." 
Dissertation Abstracts International 40(10) (1980). 

Carleton, Michael D., and Eshelman, R. E. "A Synopsis of Fossil Grass- 
hopper Mice, Genus Onychomys, and Their Relationships to Recent Spe- 
cies." Papers on Paleontology, University of Michigan Museum of Paleon- 
tology 21(1979) :l-63.. 

Carleton, Michael D., and Myers, P. "Karyotypes of Some Harvest Mice, 
Genus Reithrodontomys." Journal of Mammalogy 60(1979) :307-13. 

George, A., and Springer, V. G. "Revision of the Clinid Fish Tribe Ophiclinini, 
Including Five New Species, and Definition of the Family Clinidae." Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Zoology 307. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Insti- 
tution Press, 1980. 

Handley, C. O., Jr. "Mammals of the Dismal Swamp: A Historical Account." 
In The Great Dismal Swamp, ed. P. W. Kirk, Jr., pp. 297-357. Charlottes- 
ville, Va. : University Press of Virginia, 1979. 

. "Status [of the mountain lion] in Virginia." Eastern Cougar News- 
letter 2(1979) :4-5. 

. "Avocet in West Virginia." Redstart 46(4) (1979) :148. 

"Marine Mammals in Michigan Pleistocene Beaches." Reprinted from 



Journal of Mammalogy 34(1953) :252-53, by Pursuit (Journal of the Society 
of Investigation Unexplained) 12(1979) :195-96. 

Handley, C. O., Jr., and Gordon, L. K. "New Species of Mammals from North- 
ern South America. Mouse Possums, genus Marmosa Gray." In Vertebrate 
Ecology in the Northern Neotropics, ed. J. F. Eisenberg, pp. 65-72. Washing- 
ton, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Handley, C. O., Jr. "Inconsistencies in Formation of Family-group and Sub- 
family-group Names in Chiroptera." In: Proceedings of the Fifth Inter- 
national Bat Research Conference, eds. D. E. Wilson and A. L. Gardner, pp. 
9-13. Lubbock, Tex.: Texas Tech University Press, 1980. 

Heyer, W. R. "Annual Variation in Larval Amphibian Populations within a 
Temperate Pond." Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences 69(2) 
(1979) :65-74. 

. "Systematics of the pentadactylus Species Group of the Frog Genus 

Leptodactylus (Amphibia: Leptodactylidae)." Smithsonian Contributions to 
Zoology 301. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Irvine, Blair A.; Scott, Michael D.; Wells, Randy S.; and Mead, James G. "The 
Stranding of the Pilot Whale, Clobicephala melaena, in Florida and South 
Carolina." Fishery Bulletin 77(2) (1979) :511-13. 

Lachner, Ernest A., and McKinney, James F. "Two New Gobiid Fishes of the 
Genus Gobiopsis and a Redescription of Feia nympha Smith." Smithsonian 
Contributions to Zoology 299. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1979. 

Menzies, J., and Zug, G. R. "Papuan Tree Frogs of the Litoria thesaurensis 
Group (Salientia: Hylidae)." Micronesica 15(1-2) (1979) :325-33. 

Olson, Storrs L. "Picathartes — Another West African Forest Relict with Prob- 
able Asian Affinities." Bulletin of the British Ornithologists' Club 99(3) 
(1979) :112-13. 

. "The Significance of the Distribution of the Megapodiidae." Emu 80 

(l)(1980):21-24. 

"Lamprolia as Part of a South Pacific Radiation of Monarchine Fly- 



catchers." Notornis 27(1) (1980) :6-10. 
. "Revision of the Tawny-Faced Antwren, Microbates cinereiventris 



416 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



(Aves: Passeriformes)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washing- 
ton 93(1) (1980) :68-74. 

"Geographic Variation in the Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia: 



Parulidae) of the Pacific Coast of Middle and South America." Proceedings 
of the Biological Society of Washington 93(2) (1980) :473-480. 

-. "A. New Genus of Penguin-Like Pelecaniform Bird from the Oligocene 



of Washington (Pelecaniformes, Plotopteridae)." Natural History Museum 
of Los Angeles County Contributions in Science 330(1980) -.51-57. 

Olson, Storrs., and Feduccia, Alan. "Relationships and Evolution of Flamingos 
(Aves: Phoenicopteridae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 316. 
Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

. "Presbyornis and the Origin of the Anseriformes (Aves: Charadrio- 

morphae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 323. Washington, D.C. : 
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Olson, Storrs L., and Feduccia, Alan. "An Old World Occurrence of the Eocene 
Avian Family Primobucconidae." Proceedings of the Biological Society of 
Washington 92(3) (1979) :494-97. 

Olson, Storrs L., and Hasegawa, Yoshikazu. "Fossil Counterparts of Giant 
Penguins from the North Pacific." Science 206(4419) (1979) :688-89. 

Olson, Storrs, L.; Swift, Camm C; and Mokhiber, Carmine. "An Attempt to 
Determine the Prey of the Great Auk." Auk 96(4) (1979) :790-92. 

Ripley, S. D. "Changes in the Bird Fauna of a Forest Area; Simlipal Hills, 
Mayurbhanj District, and Dhenkanal District, Orissa." Journal of the Bom- 
bay Natural History Society 75(3) (1978) :570-74. 

. "Scientists Find that Many Seabird Species Are, Like Porpoises, Sub- 
ject to Inadvertent Destruction by Commercial Fishermen." Environmental 
Awareness 1(3) (1978) :99-100. 

A Naturalist's Adventure in Nepal. Katmandu: Ratna Pustak Bhandar, 



1978. [Revised edition of Search for the Spiny Babbler. London: Gollancz, 
1953.] 

"The Smithsonian: An Interdisciplinary Institution 150 Years after Its 



Conception by James Smithson." Interdisciplinary Science Reviews 3(2) 
(1978) :89-98. 

-. "A Comment on Actinodura nipalensis (and waldeni)." Journal of the 



Bombay Natural History Society 76(1) (1979) :21-23. 

-. "International Aspects of Bird Conservation." The Garden Clubs of 



America, Bulletin 67(8) (Summer, 1979). 

— . "A Semi-Albino Snow Goose." Aviculture Magazine 85(1)(1979) :4-5. 
"The Ebb and Flow of Species." In The American Land. Washington, 



D.C: Smithsonian Exposition Books, 1979. 

[Foreword] Other P. dens, by John Henry Dick. Old Greenwich: Devin- 



Adair, 1979. 

-. "Love for Nature." In Liber Amicorum: Walter van den bergh. Am- 



sterdam: Lannoo-Tielt, 1980. 
Ripley, S. D., and Bond, G. M. "A Third Set of Additions to the Avifauna of 

Angola." Bulletin of the British Ornithologists' Club 99(4) (1979) :140-42. 
Ripley, S. D., and Lovejoy, T. E. "Threatened and Endangered Species." Ha- 
bitat 7(4) (1979) :21-28. 
Slud, Paul. "The Birds of Hacienda Palo Verde, Guanacaste, Costa Rica." 

Smithsonion Contributions to Zoology 292. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian 

Institution Press, 1980. 
Steadman, David W.; Olson, Storrs L.; Barber, John C; Meister, Charles A.; 

and Melville, Margaret E. "Weights of Some West Indian Birds." Bulletin 

of the British Ornithologists' Club 100(2) (1980) :155-58. 
Thorington, Richard W., Jr.; Rudran, R.; and Mack, R. "Sexual Dimorphism 

of Alouatta seniculus and Observations on Capture Techniques. In Verte- 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 417 



brate Ecology in the Northern Neotropics, ed. J. F. Eisenberg, pp. 97-106. 
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Vari, Richard. "Anatomy, Relationships and Classification of the Families 
Citharinidae and Distichodontidae (Pisces: Characoidea)." Bulletin British 
Museum (NH) 36(5) (1979) :261-344. 

Vari, Richard, and Gery, Jacques. "Cheirodon ortegai, A New Markedly Sex- 
ually Dimorphic Cheirodontine (Pisces: Characoidea) from the Rio Ucayali 
of Peru." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(1) (1980): 
75-82. 

Zug, George R. "The Endoskeleton; The Comparative Anatomy of the Girdles, 
the Sternum, and the Paired Appendages." In Comparative Vertebrate 
Anatomy, ed. M. Wake, pp. 238-64. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 
1979. 

Zug, George R.; Hedges, S. Blair; and Sunkel, Sara. "Variation in the Repro- 
ductive Parameters of Three Neotropical Snakes, Coniophanes fissidens, 
Dipsas catesbyi, and Imantodes cenchoa." Smithsonian Contributions to 
Zoology 300. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press. 

Zusi, Richard L. Consultant for "Taxonomy." In Nomina Anatomica Avium, 
eds. J. J. Baumel, A. S. King, A. M. Lucas, J. E. Breazile, and H. E. Evans. 
London: Academic Press, 1979. 

. Penguin. In The Academic American Encyclopedia, Vol. 15, p. 143, 

1980. 

Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center 

Ferrari, F., and Bowman, T. "Pelagic Copepods of the Family Oithonidae (Cy- 
clopoida) from the East Coasts of Central and South America." Smithsonian 
Contributions to Zoology 312. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1980. 

Hendler, G. "Sex-reversal and Viviparity in Ophiolepis kieri, n. sp., with 
Notes on Viviparous Brittlestars from the Caribbean (Echinodermata: 
Ophiuroidea)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 92(4) 
(1979) : 783-95. 

Knapp, L. "Fishche des Indischen Ozeans." Ergebnisse der ichthyologischen 
Untersuchungen wahrend der Expedition des Forschungsschiffes "Meteor" 
in den Indischen Ozean, Oktober 1964 bis 1965. A. Systematischer Teil, 
XXII. Scorpaneiformes (4), Families Platycephalidae and Bembridae. Meteor 
Forsch. -Ergebnisse, Reihe D, 29(1979) :48-54, Berlin-Stuttgart. 

Handbook of North American Indians 

Ortiz, Alfonso, editor. Southwest. In Handbook of North American Indians, 
vol. 9. William C. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian In- 
stitution, 1980. 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

August, P. V. "Distress Calls in (Artibeus jamaicensis) : Ecology and Evolu- 
tionary Implications." Vertebrate Ecology in the Northern Neotropics, ed. 
J. F. Eisenberg, pp. 151-60. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 
1979. 

Blakeslee, C K.; Rice, C G.; and Ralls, K. "Behavior and Reproduction of 
Captive Brow-Antlered Deer (Cervus eldi thamin) (Thomas, 1918)." Sau- 
getierkundliche Mitteilungen 27(1979) :114-27. 

Bond, M. "Second Generation Captive Birth of an Orang-utan (Pongo pyg- 
maeus)." International Zoo Yearbook 19(1979) :165-67. 

Boness, D. J. "Busy As a Beaver Valley." ZooGoer, Friends of the National 
Zoo, 8(1 & 2) (1979) :27-32. 



418 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



. "The Social System of the Grey Seal (Halichoerus grypus) (Fab.) on 

Sable Island, Nova Scotia." Ph.D. dissertation, Dalhousie University, Hali- 
fax, Canada, 1979. 

Brady, C. A. "Observations on the Behavior and Ecology of the Crab-Eating 
Fox (Cerdocyon thous)." Vertebrate Ecology in the Northern Neotropics, 
ed. J. F. Eisenberg, pp. 161-72. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1979. 

Brady, C. A., and Ditton, M. K. "The Management and Breeding of Maned 
Wolves (Chrysocyon brachyurus) at the National Zoological Park, Wash- 
ington, D.C." International Zoo Yearbook 19(1979) :171-76. 

Davis, S. "Husbandry and Breeding of the Red-Footed Tortoise (Ceochelone 
carbonaria) at the National Zoological Park, Washington, D.C." Interna- 
tional Zoo Yearbook 19(1979) :50-52. 

Dittus, W. P. J. "The Evolution of Behaviors Regulating Density and Age- 
Specific Sex Ratios in a Primate Population." Behaviour 29(1979) :265-302. 

. "The Social Regulation of Primate Populations: A Synthesis." In The 

Macaques: Studies in Ecology, Behavior and Evolution, ed. D. G. Lindburg. 
New York: Van Nostrand Reinholt Co., 1980. 

Eisenberg, J. F. "The Density and Biomass of Tropical Mammals." Conserva- 
tion Biology: An Evolutionary-Ecological Perspective, eds. M. E. Soule and 
B. A. Wilcox, pp. 35-55. Sunderland, Mass.: Sinauer Associates, Inc. 1980. 

. "Habitat, Economy and Society: Some Correlations and Hypotheses 

for the Neotropical Primates." Primate Ecology and Human Origins: Eco- 
logical Influences on Social Organization, eds. I. S. Bernstein and E. O. 
Smith. New York: Garland Press, 1979. 

Eisenberg, J. F., editor. Vertebrate Ecology in the Northern Neotropics. Wash- 
ington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Eisenberg, J. F., and Redford, K. "A Biogeographic Analysis of the Mammalian 
Fauna of Venezuela." Vertebrate Ecology in the Northern Neotropics, ed. 
J. F. Eisenberg, pp. 31-38. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 
1979. 

Eisenberg, J. F., O'Connell, M. A., and August, P. V. "Density, Productivity 
and Distribution of Mammals in Two Venezuelan Habitats." Vertebrate 
Ecology in the Northern Neotropics, ed. John F. Eisenberg, pp. 187-207. 
Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Frame, L. H.; Malcolm, J. R.; Frame, G. W.; and Lawick, H. van. "Social Or- 
ganization of African Wild Dogs (Lycaon pictus) on the Serengeti Plains, 
Tanzania 1968-1978." Z. Tierpsychol. 50(1979) :225-49. 

Frazier, J. G. "Marine Turtle Management in Seychelles: A Case-Study." En- 
vironmental Conservation 6(1979) :225-30. 

Green, K. M. "Vocalizations, Behavior, and Ontogeny of the Golden Lion 
Tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia rosalia)." D.Sc. thesis, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, 1979. 

Kleiman, D. G. "Lessons from Nature? Monogamy Among Humans and Other 
Mammals." Kin and Communities, eds. A. J. Lichtman and J. R. Challinor, 
pp. 43-58. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

. "Parent-Offspring Conflict and Sibling Competition in a Monogamous 

Primate." American Naturalist 114(5) (1979) :753-60. 

-. "The Sociobiology of Captive Propagation." Conservation Biology: An 



Evolutionary-Ecological Perspective, eds. M. E. Soule and B. A. Wilcox, pp. 
243-61. Sunderland, Mass.: Sinauer Associates, Inc., 1980. 

Kleiman, D. G., and Davis, T. M. "Ontogeny and Maternal Care." Biology 
of the New World Family Phyllostomatidae. Part III, eds. R. J. Baker, J. K. 
Jones, Jr., and D. C Carter, pp. 387-402. Lubbock, Tex.: Special Publica- 
tions, The Museum, Texas Technological College, 1979. 

Kleiman, D. G., and Mack, D. S. "The Effectives of Age, Sex, and Reproductive 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 419 



Status on Scent Marking Frequencies in the Golden Lion Tamarin (Leon- 
topithecus rosalia)." Folia Primatol. 33(1980) : (1-2) :1-14. 

Kleiman, D. G. Eisenberg, J. F., and Maliniak, E. "Reproductive Parameters 
and Productivity of Cavimoroph Rodents." In Vertebrate Ecology in the 
Northern Neotropics, ed J. F. Eisenberg, pp. 173-83. Washington D.C.: 
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Kleiman, D. G.; Karesh, W. B.; and Chu, P. R. "Behavioural Changes Asso- 
ciated with Oestrus in the Giant Panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) with 
Comments on Female Proceptive Behaviour." International Zoo Yearbook 
19(1979) :217-23. 

Kleiman, D. G.; Grady, L.; Block, J. A.; and Chu, P. R. "The Development of 
Reproductive and Social Behavior in the Giant Panda." [30-minute, black 
and white, videotape, available in cassette and reel-to-reel] National Zoo- 
logical Park, Washington, D.C., 1979. 

Kranz, K., and Ralls, K. "The Scimitar Horned Oryx." ZooCoer, Friends of the 
National Zoo, 8(1979) :13-15. 

Larkin, P., and Roberts, M. "Reproduction in the Ringtailed Mongoose (Ga- 
lidia elegans) at the National Zoological Park." International Zoo Yearbook 
19(1979) :188-93. 

Mack, D. "Growth and Development of Infant Red Howling Monkeys (Alou- 
atta seniculus) in a Free Ranging Population." Vertebrate Ecology in the 
Northern Neotropics, ed. J. F. Eisenberg, pp. 127-36. Washington, D.C. : 
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Marcellini. D., "Activity Patterns and Densities of Venezuelan Caiman (Cai- 
man crocodilus) and Pond Turtles (Prodocnemis vogli)." Vertebrate Ecology 
in the Northern Neotropics, ed. J. F. Eisenberg, pp. 263-71. Washington, 
D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Miller, E. H., and Boness, D. J. "Remarks on Display Functions of the Snout 
of the Grey Seal (Halichoerus grypus (Fab.)) With Comparative Notes." 
Canadian Journal of Zoology 57(1979) (1) :140-48. 

Mock, D. W. "Repertoire Shifts and 'Extra-Marital' Courtship in Herons." 
Behaviour 69(1979) :57-71. 

Mondolfi, E., and Eisenberg, J. F. "New Records for (Ateles belzebuth hy- 
bridus) in Northern Venezuela." In Vertebrate Ecology in the Northern 
Neotropics, ed. J. F. Eisenberg, pp. 93-96. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian 
Institution Press, 1979. 

Morton, E. S. "A Comparative Survey of Avian Social System in Northern 
Venezuela Habitats." In Vertebrate Ecology in the Northern Neotropics, 
ed. J. F. Eisenberg, pp. 233-59. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1979. 

. "Effective Pollination of (Erythrina fusca) by the Orchard Oriole 

(Icterus spurius): Co-Evolved Behavioral Manipulation?" Annals of the Mis- 
souri Botanical Garden 66(1979) :482-89. 

-. "Adaptations to Seasonal Changes by Migrant Birds in the Panama 



Canal Zone." Migrant Birds in the Neotropics: Ecology, Behavior, Distri- 
bution, and Conservation, eds. E. S. Morton and A. Keast, pp. 437-53. 
Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

-. "The Importance of Migrant Birds to the Advancement of Evolutionary 



Theory." Migrant Birds in the Neotropics: Ecology, Behavior, Distribution, 
and Conservation, eds. E. S. Morton and A. Keast, pp. 555-57. Washing- 
ton, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Morton, E. S., and Farabaugh, S. "Infanticide and Other Adaptations of the 
Nesting Striped Cuckoo (Tapera naevia)." Ibis 121(1979) :212-13. 

O'Connell, M. A. "Ecology of Didelphid Marsupials from Northern Vene- 
zuela." Vertebrate Ecology in the Northern Neotropics, ed. J. F. Eisenberg, 
pp. 73-87. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 



420 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Ralls, K. [Review] Behavior of Marine Animals, Current Perspectives in Re- 
search, Volume 3: Cetaceans, eds. H. E. Winn and B. L. Olla. BioScience 53 

(1980)(3):192. 
. Comments on Sociobiology and Sex Differences, by Marion Lowe. 

Signs 5(1980) :544-45. 
Ralls, K.; Brownell, R. L., Jr.; and Ballou, J. "Differential Mortality by Sex 

and Age in Mammals with Specific Reference to the Sperm Whale." Report 

of the International Whaling Commission. Special Issue 2(1980) :233-44. 
Ralls, K.; Brugger, K.; and Ballou, J. "Inbreeding and Juvenile Mortality in 

Small Populations of Ungulates." Science 206(1979) :1101-3. 
Rathbun, C. Dorsey. "Description and Analysis of the Arch Display in the 

Golden Lion Tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia rosalia)." Folia Primatologica 

32(1979) :125-48. 
Rathbun, Galen B. "Ecological Survey of the Night Monkey (Aotus trivirgatus) 

in Formosa Province, Argentina." Primates 21 (1980) (2) :211-19. 
Rathbun, G. B. "(Rhynchocyon chrysopygus) Mammalian Species." American 

Society of Mammalogists 117(1979) :l-4. 
. "The Social Structure and Ecology of Elephant Shrews," pp. 1-76. Z. 

Tierpsychol., Advances in Ethology Supplement, No. 20. 
Roberts, M. "The Bear Facts." ZooCoer, Friends of the National Zoo, 8(1&2) 

(1979) :7-15. 
Roberts, M., and Kessler, D. "Reproduction in Red Pandas (Ailurus fulgens), 

Carnivora: Ailuropodidae." J. Zoology (London) 188(1979) :235-49. 
Robinson, John G. "An Analysis of the Organization of Vocal Communication 

in the Titi Monkey (Callicebus moloch)." Z. Tierpsychol. 49(1979) :381-405. 
. "Correlates of Urine Washing in the Wedge-Capped Capuchin (Cebus 

nigrivittatus)." Vertebrate Ecology in the Northern Neotropics, ed. J. F. 

Eisenberg, pp. 137-43. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 

1979. 

"Vocal Regulation of Use of Space by Groups of Titi Monkeys (Cal- 



licebus moloch)." Behavioral and Ecological Sociobiology 5(1979) :1-15. 

Rudran, R. "The Demography and Social Mobility of a Red Howler (Alouatta 
seniculus) Population in Venezuela." Vertebrate Ecology in the Northern 
Neotropics, ed. J. F. Eisenberg, pp. 107-26 Washington, D.C: Smithsonian 
Institution Press, 1979. 

Thorington, R. W., Jr.; Rudran, R.; and Mack, D. "Sexual Dimorphism of 
(Alouatta seniculus) and Observations on Capture Techniques." Vertebrate 
Ecology in the Northern Neotropics, ed. J. F. Eisenberg, pp. 97-106. Wash- 
ington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Troth, R. G. "Vegetational Types on a Ranch in the Central Llanos of Vene- 
zuela." Vertebrate Ecology in the Northern Neotropics, ed. J. F. Eisenberg, 
pp. 17-30. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Wemmer, C. "Social Organization and the Saber-Tooth Syndrome in Car- 
nivorous Mammals." Saugetierk. Mitt 27(1979) :127-32. 

Yahner, R. H. "Temporal Patterns in Male Mating Behavior of Captive Reeve's 
Muntjac (Muntiacus reevesi)." Journal of Mammalogy 60(1979) (3) :560-67. 

OFFICE OF BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION 

Ayensu, E. S. "The Jungle, We Know Not What We Do." The New York Times 
(July 19, 1980). 

RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY 

Ackerman, R. E.; Hamilton, T. D.; and Stuckenrath, R. "Early Culture Com- 
plexes on the Northern Northwest Coast." Canadian Journal of Archaeology 
3(1979) :195-209. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I All 



Adavasio, J. M.; Gunn, J. D.; Donahue, J.; Stuckenrath, R.; Guilday, J. R.; and 
Volman, K. "Yes, Virginia, It Really is That Old: A Reply to Haynes and 
Mead." American Antiquity 45(1980) :588-95. 

Andrews, J. T.; Carrara, P. E.; King, F. B.; and Stuckenrath, R. "Holocene En- 
vironmental Changes in the Alpine Zone, Northern San Juan Mountains, 
Colorado: Evidence from Bog Stratigraphy and Palynology." Quaternary 
Research 5(1975) -.173-92. 

Canaani, O. D., and Gantt, E. "Circular Dichroism and Polarized Fluorescence 
Characteristics of Blue-Green Algal Allophycocyanins." Biochemistry 19 
(1980) :2950-56. 

Canaani, O.; Lipschultz, C. A.; and Gantt, E. "Reassembly of Phycobilisomes 
from Allophycocyanin and a Phycocyanin-Phycoerythrin Complex." FEBS 
Letters 115(1980) :225-29. 

Chepko, G.; Weistrop, J. S.; and Margulies, M. M. "The Absence of Cytoplasm 
Ribosomes on the Envelopes of Chloroplasts and Mitochrondria in Plants: 
Implications for the Mechanism of Transport of Proteins into these Organ- 
elles." Protoplasma 100(1979) :385-92. 

Cleland, C. F. "Comparison of the Flowering Behavior of the Long-Day Plant 
Lemna gibba G3 from Different Laboratories." Plant and Cell Physiology 
20(1979) :1263-71. 

Cleland, C. F., and Tanaka, O. "Effect of Daylength on the Ability of Salicylic 
Acid to Induce Flowering in the Long-Day Plant Lemna gibba G3 and the 
Short-Day Plant Lemna paucicostata 6746." Plant Physiology 64(1979) :421-24. 

Deitzer, G. F.; Hayes R.; and Jabben, M. "Kinetics and Time Dependence of 
the Effect of Far Red Light on the Photoperiodic Induction of Flowering in 
Wintex Barley." Plant Physiology 64(1979) :1015-21. 

Gantt, E. "Photosynthetic Cryptophytes." In Phytoflagellates : Form and Func- 
tion, ed. E. Cox, pp. 381-405. North Holland: Elsevier, 1980. 

. "Structure and Function of Phycobilisomes: Light Harvesting Pigment 

Complexes in Red and Blue-Green Algae." International Review of Cytology 
66(1980) :45-80. 

Handbook of Phycological Methods: Developmental and Cytological 



Methods, ed. E. Gantt. London: Cambridge University Press, 1980. 

"Replica Production and Negative Staining." In Handbook of Phycolog- 



ical Methods: Developmental and Cytological Methods, ed. E. Gantt, pp. 

377-83. London: Cambridge University Press, 1980. 
Goldberg, B., and Klein, W. H. "A Model for Determining the Spectral Quality 

of Daylight on a Horizontal Surface at Any Geographical Location." Solar 

Energy 24(1980) :351-57. 
Goldberg, B.; Klein, W. H.; and McCartney, R. D. "A Comparison of Some 

Simple Models Used to Predict Solar Irradiance on a Horizontal Surface." 

Solar Energy 23(1979) :81-83. 
Harding, R. W., and Shropshire, W., Jr. "Photocontrol of Carotenoid Biosyn- 
thesis." Annual Review of Plant Physiology 31(1980) :217-38. 
Hyland, F.; Thompson, W. B.; and Stuckenrath, R., Jr. "Late Wisconsin Wood 

and Other Tree Remains in the Presumpscot Formation, Portland, Maine." 

Maritime Sediments 14(1978) :103-20. 
Kawecka, B., and Drake, B. G. "Biology and Ecology of Snow Algae. 1. The 

Sexual Reproduction of Chlamydomonas nivalis (Bauer) Willie (Chlorophyta, 

Volvocales). Acta Hydrobiologica 20(1980) :111-16. 
Margulies, M. M. "Release of Ribosomes from Thylakoids and Endoplasmic 

Reticulum with Trypsin." Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 606(1980) :13-19. 
Margulies, M. M., and Weistrop, J. S. "Sub-thylakoid Fractions Containing 

Ribosomes." Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 606(1980) :20-33. 
Sirkin, L., and Stuckenrath, R. "The Portwashingtonian Warm Interval in the 

Northern Atlantic Coastal Plain." Geological Society of America Bulletin 

91(1980) :332-36. 



422 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Stanley, D. J.; Knight, R.; and Stuckenrath, R. "High Sedimentation Rates and 
Variable Dispersal Patterns in the Western Hellenic Trench." Nature 273 
(1978) :110-13. 

Tanaka, O., and Cleland, C. F. "Comparison of the Ability of Salicylic Acid 
and Ferricyanide to Induce Flowering in the Long-Day Plant, Lemna gibba 
G3." Plant Physiology 65(1980) :1058-61. 

White, D.; Shropshire, W., Jr.; and Stephens, K. "Photocontrol of Develop- 
ment by Stigmatella aurantiaca." Journal of Bacteriology 142(1980) :1023-24. 

Wiebe, H., and Drake, B. G. "Leaf Temperature Mapping with Thermosensi- 
tive Liquid Crystal Models." BioScience 30(1980) :32-33. 

Yamamoto, K. "Molecular and Spectroscopic Properties of Phytochrome Puri- 
fied from Etiolated Pea Shoots." Ph.D. dissertation, University of Tokyo, 
September, 1980. 

Yamamoto, K. T.; Smith, W. O., Jr.; and Furuya, M. "Photoreversible CA 2+ - 
Dependent Aggregation of Purified Phytochrome from Etiolated Pea and Rye 
Seedlings." Photochemistry and Photobiology 32(1980) :233-39. 

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

(Including Contributions from Harvard Members 
of the Center for Astrophysics) 

Aaronson, M.; Huchra, J.; and Mould, J. "The Infrared Luminosity /H I 
Velocity-Width Relation and Its Application to the Distance Scale." Astro- 
physical Journal 229(1979) :1. 

Aaronson, M.; Mould, J.; and Huchra, J. "A Distance Scale from the Infrared 
Magnitude/H I Velocity-Width Relation I. The Calibration." Astrophysical 
Journal 237(1980) :655-65. 

Aaronson, M.; Mould, J.; Huchra, J.; Sullivan, W.; Schommer, R.; and Bothun, 
G. "The Distance Scale from the Infrared Magnitude/H I Velocity-Width 
Relation. III. The Expansion Rate Outside the Local Supercluster." Astro- 
physical Journal 239(1980) :12. 

Alpern, J., and Grindlay, J. [Abstract] "Photoionization Nebulae Surrounding 
Accretion X-Ray Sources." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 
11(1980) :778. 

Armstrong, J. T.; Johnston, M.; Bradt, H.; Cowley, A.; Doxsey, R.; Griffiths, 
R.; Hesser, J.; and Schwartz, D. A. "Precise Positions and Optical Search 
for the 38-Second X-Ray Pulsar near OAO 1653-40 and Upper Limit on 
X-Ray Emission from V 861 Scorpii/80." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 
236(1979) :L131-L135. 

Avni, Y.; Soltan, A.; Tananbaum, H.; and Zamorani, G. "A Method for Deter- 
mining Luminosity Functions Incorporating Both Flux Measurements and 
Flux Upper Limits, With Applications to the Average X-Ray to Optical 
Luminosity Ratio for Quasars." Astrophysical Journal 238(1980) :800-7. 

Baliunas, S. L.; Avrett, E. H.; Hartmann, L.; and Dupree, A. K. "High-Pressure 
Transition Regions in Stellar Model Chromospheres." Astrophysical Journal 
(Letters) 233(1979) :L129-Ll34. 

Baliunas, S. L., and Butler, S. E. "Silicon Lines as Spectral Diagnostics: The 
Effect of Charge Transfer." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 235(1980) :L45. 

Baliunas, S. L., and Dupree, A. K. "Ultraviolet and Optical Chromospheric 
Activity in X Andromedae: Evidence for Starspots and Active Regions." In 
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report No. 389, ed. A. K. 
Dupree, pp. 101-5. Cambridge, Mass.: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa- 
tory, 1980. 

Bell, B. "Analysis of Viticultural Data by Cumulative Deviations." Journal of 
Interdisciplinary History 10(1980) :851-58. 

Black, J. H.; Dalgarno, A.; Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L. W.; and Raymond, 
J. C. "Studies of Interstellar Absorption Lines with IUE." In The First Year 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 423 



of IUE, ed. A. J. Willis, p. 11. London, England: University College London, 
1979. 

Black, J. H.; Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L.; and Raymond, J. C. "Highly Ionized 
Species in the Interstellar Medium." Astrophysical Journal 239(1980) :502. 

Broadfoot, A. L.; Belton, M. J. 5.; Takacs, P. Z.; Sandel, B. R.; Shemansky, 
D. E.; Holberg, J. B.; Ajello, J. M.; Atreya, S. K.; Donahue, T. M.; Moos, 
H. W.; Bertraux, J. L.; Blamont, J. E.; Strobel, D. F.; McConnell, J. C; 
Dalgarno, A.; Goody, R.; and McElroy, M. B. "Extreme Ultraviolet Observa- 
tions from Voyager I Encounter with Jupiter." Science 204(1979) :979-82. 

Butler, S. E., and Dalgarno, A. "Charge Transfer Between N + and H." Astro- 
physical Journal 234(1979) :7 65-67. 

Canizares, C. R.; McClintock, J.; and Grindlay, J. E. "A Spectroscopic Study of 
the Optical Counterparts of Three X-Ray Bursters." Astrophysical Journal 
234(1979) -.556-65. 

. "Discovery of the Optical Counterpart of the Transient X-Ray Burster 

Cen X4." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 236(1980) :L55-L59. 

Cassinelli, J. P.; Waldron, W. L.; Vaiana, G. S.; and Rosner, R. [Abstract] 
"Coronal X-Ray Emission from OB Supergiants." Bulletin of the American 
Astronomical Society 11(1980) :775. 

Chaffee, F. H. "Echelle Spectroscopy with Electrographic and Solid State De- 
tectors." Advances in Electronics and Electron Physics 52(1979) :415-20. 

Chaffee, F. H., and Dunham, T. "Interstellar Lines Toward the Cepheus OB2 
Association." Astrophysical Journal 233(1979) :568-74. 

Chaffee, F. H.; Lutz, B. L.; Black, J. H.; VandenBout, P. A.; and Snell, R. L. 
"Rotational Fine-Structure Lines of Interstellar C 2 Toward '( Persei." Astro- 
physical Journal 236(1980) :474-80. 

Chance, K. V.; Bowen, K. H.; Winn, J. S.; and Klemperer, W. "Electric Deflec- 
tion Studies of Halogen and Interhalogen Polymers." Journal of Chemical 
Physics 72(2) (1980) :791. 

. "Microwave and Radio Frequency Spectrum of XeHCl." Journal of 

Chemical Physics 70(11) (1979) :5157. 

Charles, P. A.; Thorstensen, J. R.; Bowyer, S.; Griffiths, R. E.; Grindlay, J. E.; 
Schwartz, D. A.; Canizares, C; Doxsey, R.; Johnston, M.; and McClintock, 
J. [Abstract] "The Optical Counterparts of 2S 1556-605, MXB 1905 + 00, 
4U 1907 + 09, and A 1916-05." Bulletin of the American Astronomical 
Society 11(1979) :720. 

Chevalier, R. A.; Kirschner, R. P.; and Raymond, J. C. "The Optical Emission 
from a Fast Shock Wave with Application to Supernova Remnants." Astro- 
physical Journal 235(1980) :186. 

Cohn, H. "Numerical Integration of the Fokker-Planck Equation and the Evolu- 
tion of Star Clusters." Astrophysical Journal 234(1979) :1036. 

Connes, P.; Noxon, J. F.; Carleton, N. P.; and Traub, W. A. "0 2 fA) Emission 
in the Day and Night Airglow of Venus." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 
223(1979) :L29-L32. 

Constantinides, E. R.; Dalgarno, A.; and Black, J. H. "The Photochemistry of 
N + Ions." Geophysical Research Letters 6(1979) -.569-72. 

Cook, A. F.; Duxbury, T. G; and Hunt, G. E. "A Lower Limit on the Top of 
Jupiter's Haze Layer." Nature 280(1979) :780-81. 

. "First Results on Jovian Lightning." Nature 280(1979) :794. 

Cook, A. F.; Shoemaker, E. M.; and Smith, B. A. "Dynamics of Volcanic 
Plumes on Io." Nature 280(1979) :743-46. 

Cruddace, R. G.; Dupree, A. K.; Carroll, R. W.; Friedman, H.; Bryan, E. T.; 
and Wood, K. [Abstract] "X-Ray Observations of W Ursae Majoris Stars." 
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :721. 

DaCosta, N. L., and Lightman, A. P. "Energy Transfer in Gravitating Systems." 
Astrophysical Journal 228(1979) :543. 



424 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Dalgarno, A. "Atomic Physics from Atmospheric and Astrophysical Studies." 
In Advances in Atomic and Molecular Physics, vol. 15, eds. D. R. Bates and 
B. Bederson, pp. 37-76. New York: Academic Press, 1979. 

. "Diabatic and Resonance Molecular States." Physica Scripta 21(1980): 

492-94. 

Dalgarno, A., and Roberge, W. G. "Collision-Induced Dissociation of Inter- 
stellar Molecules." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 233(1979) :L25-L27. 

Dalgarno, A., and Shorer, P. "Nonadiabatic Long-Range Forces." Physical Re- 
view A 20(1979) :1307-09. 

Darbro, W.; Eisner, R.; Ghosh, P.; Weisskopf, M. C.; Grindlay, J. E.; and 
Sutherland, P. G. [Abstract] "Observations of AMC X-l with the Monitor 
Proportional Counter on the Einstein (HEAO-2) Observatory." Bulletin of 
the American Astronomical Society 11(1980) :773. 

Davis, M. "Lower Limits to Fluctuations in the Microwave Background Radia- 
tion Induced during Recombination." Physica Scripta 21(1980) :717. 

Davis, M., and Boynton, P. "On the Present Observability of Density-Tempera- 
ture Fluctuations in the Early Universe." Astrophysical Journal 237(1980) : 
365-70. 

deCampli, W., and Baliunas, S. L. "What Tides and Flares Do to RS CVn 
Binaries." Astrophysical Journal 230(1979) :815. 

Delvaille, J. P.; Geller, M. J.; and Schnopper, H. W. [Abstract] "X-Ray Vari- 
ability of 3C 120 and III Zw2." Bulletin of the American Physical Society 
24(1979) :583. 

Dobrowolny, M. "Wave and Particle Phenomena Induced by an Electrodynamic 
Tether." Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report No. 388, 30 
pp., 1979. 

Downes, D.; Genzel, R.; Moran, J. M.; Johnson, K. J.; Matveyenko, L. I.; 
Kogan, L. R.; Kostenko, V. I.; and Ronnang, B. "New VLBI Maps of H 2 
Sources in Different Stages of Evolution." Astronomy and Astrophysics 
79(1979) :233-42. 

Dupree, A. K., editor. "Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun." Smithsonian 
Astrophysical Observatory Special Report No. 389, 235 pp., 1980. 

Dupree, A. K.; Black, J. H.; Davis, R. J.; Hartmann, L.; and Raymond, J. C. 
"Chromospheres and Coronae of Late-Type Stars." In The First Year of IUE, 
ed. A. J. Willis, p. 217. London, England: University College London, 1979. 

Dupree, A. K.; Gursky, H.; Black, J. H.; Davis, R. J.; Hartmann, L.; Matilsky, 
T.; Raymond, J. C; Hammerschlag-Hensberge, G.; van den Heuvel, E. P. J.; 
Burger, M.; Lamers, H. J. G. L. M.; Vanden Bout, P. A.; Morton, D. C; de 
Loore, C; van Dessel, E. L.; Menzies, J. W.; Whitelock, P. A.; Watson, M.; 
Sanford, P. W.; and Pollard, G. S. G. "Simultaneous Ultraviolet, Optical, and 
X-Ray Observations of the X-Ray Source Vela X-l (HD 77581)." Astro- 
physical Journal 238(1980) :969-81. 

Dupree, A. K., and Hartmann, L. "Hunting for Black Holes." Natural History 
(October 1979) :30. 

Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L.; and Preston, S. B. [Abstract] "Chromospheres 
and Coronae of W UMa Systems." Bulletin of the American Astronomical 
Society 11(1979) :721. 

Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L.; Raymond, J. C; Davis, R. J.; and Black, J. 
[Abstract] "Chromospheres and Coronae of Late-Type Stars." Bulletin of the 
American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :448. 

Eisner, R.; Ghosh, P.; Darbro, W.; Weisskopf, M. C; Sutherland, P. G.; and 
Grindlay, J. E. "Observations of Cygnus X-3 with the Einstein (HEAO 2) 
X-Ray Observatory: The Period Derivative and the Asymmetric X-Ray Light 
Curve." Astrophysical Journal 239(1980) :335. 

Fabricant, D. G.; Goddard, R. E.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; and Gorenstein, P. 
"Lexan Coating to Eliminate the UV Sensitivity of Soft X-Ray Proportional 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 425 



Counters with a Polypropylene Window." Review of Scientific Instruments 

50(1979) :727-29. 
Fazio, G. "A Review of Infrared and Submillimeter Astronomy with Balloon- 

Borne Telescopes." Infrared Physics 19(1979) :341-51. 
Fireman, E. L. [Abstract] "Carbon-14 Dating of Antarctic Meteorites and 

Antarctic Ice." Lunar and Planetary Science XI, part 1 (1980) :288-90. 
. [Abstract] "Carbon-14 in Lunar Samples and in Stony Meteorites." In 

Proceedings of Lunar Science Conference, Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, 

Suppl. 11 1(1979) :1053-61. 

"Depth Dependence of 37 Ar from M K: Consequences for Solar Neutrino 



Experiments and the Baryon Conservation Principle." Proceedings of the 
Sixteenth International Cosmic Ray Conference 13 (1979) :389-93. 

Flannery, B. P., and Press, W. H. "An Ionization-Coupled Acoustic Instability 
of the Interstellar Medium." Astrophysical Journal 231(1979) :688-96. 

Flannery, B. P.; Roberge, W.; and Rybicki, G. B. "The Penetration of Diffuse 
Ultraviolet Radiation into Interstellar Clouds." Astrophysical Journal 236 
(1980) :598-608. 

Flannery, B. P.; Rybicki, G. B.; and Sarazin, C. L. "Ultraviolet Pumping of N + 
Fine-Structure Levels." Astrophysical Journal 229(1979) :1057-73. 

Forman, W.; Schwarz, J.; Jones, C; Liller, W.; and Fabian, A. C. "X-Ray Ob- 
servations of Galaxies in the Virgo Cluster." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 
234(1979) :L27-L31. 

Fox, J. L., and Dalgarno, A. "Ionization, Luminosity, and Heating of the Upper 
Atmosphere of Mars." Journal of Geophysical Research 84(1979) :7315-33. 

. "The Production of Nitrogen Atoms on Mars and Their Escape." 

Planetary and Space Science 28(1980) :41-46. 

Franklin, F. A. "Implications from the Motion of Outer Belt Asteroids." Icarus 
40(1979) :329. 

Franklin, F.; Avis, C; Colombo, G.; and Shapiro, I. I. "The Geometric Oblate- 
ness of Uranus." Astrophysical Journal 236(1980) :1031-34. 

Gaposchkin, E. M. "Averaging on the Surface of a Sphere." Journal of Geo- 
physical Research 85(1980) :3187-93. 

Garcia, M.; Conroy, M.; Doxsey, R.; Griffiths, R. E.; Johnston, M.; Ralph, E.; 
Roberts, W.; and Schwartz, D. A. [Abstract] "Locations of Unidentified 
X-Ray Sources with the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator." Bulletin 
of the American Astronomical Society 12(1980) :527. 

Geary, J. C. "A Floating Gate Preamplifier Design for Reticon Diode Arrays." 
Instrumentation in Astronomy III, Proceedings of the Society of Photo- 
Optical Instrumentation Engineers 172(1979) :82. 

Genzel, R., and Downes, D. "FLO in the Galaxy. II: Duration of the Maser 
Phase and the Galactic Distribution of H2O Sources." Astronomy and Astro- 
physics 72(1979) :234. 

Genzel, R.; Downes, D.; Moran, J. M.; Johnston, K. J.; Spencer, J. H.; 
Matveyenko, L. I.; Kogan, L. R.; Kostenko, V. I.; Ronnang, B.; Haschick, 
A. D.; Reid, M. J.; Walker, R. C; Giuffrida, T. S.; Burke, B. F.; and Moiseev, 
I. G. "H2O in W51 Main: An Expanding Bubble Around a Young Massive 
Star?" Astronomy and Astrophysics 78(1979) :239. 

Genzel, R.; Downes, D.; Pauls, T.; Wilson, T. L.; and Bieging, J. "Interstellar 
CH: Excitation Temperatures and Abundance Relative to H2CO." Astronomy 
and Astrophysics 73(1979) :253. 

Genzel, R.; Downes, D.; Schwartz, P. R.; Spencer, J. H.; Pankonin, V.; and 
Baars, J. "SiO Emission in Orion: An Evolved Star in a Region of Star For- 
mation or a Unique Object in the Galaxy." Astrophysical Journal 239(1980) : 
519. 

Genzel, R.; Moran, J. M.; Lane, A. P.; Predmore, C. R.; Ho, P. T. P.; Hansen, 



426 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



S. S.; and Reid, M. J. "VLBI Observations of the SiO Maser in Orion." 

Astro-physical Journal (Letters) 231(1979) :L73-L76. 
Giacconi, R. "Recent Advances in X-Ray Astronomy." In Proceedings of the 

ISAS Symposium on Results and Future Prospects of X-Ray Astronomy, pp. 

216-59. Tokyo, Japan: University of Tokyo. 
. "Recent Advances in X-Ray Astronomy." In Proceedings of the 1979 

IUPAP Sixteenth International Cosmic Ray Conference 14(1979) :19-41. 
"X-Ray Astronomy." Scientific American 242(1980) :80-102. 



Giacconi, R.; Bechtold, J.; Branduardi, G.; Forman, W.; Henry, J. P.; Jones, C.; 
Kellogg, E.; van der Laan, H.; Liller, W.; Marshall, H.; Murray, S. S.; Pye, 
J.; Schreier, E.; Sargent, W. L. W.; Seward, F.; and Tananbaum, H. "A High 
Sensitivity X-Ray Survey Using the Einstein Observatory and the Discrete 
Source Contribution to the Extragalactic X-Ray Background." Astrophysical 
Journal (Letters) 234(1979) :Ll-L7. 

Gingerich, O. "Albert Einstein: A Laboratory in the Mind." In Science Year, 
The World Book Science Annual, pp. 397-410. Chicago, 111.: World Book — 
Childcraft International, 1979. 

. "Commission 41 at the Montreal IAU Congress." Journal of the History 

of Astronomy 10(1979) :189-92. 

. "Smithsonian's Argus." Harvard Magazine 81(1979) :81-88. 

"The Aethereal Sky: Man's Search for a Plenum Universe." Great 



Ideas Today (1979) :68-86. 

— . "The Great Copernicus Chase." American Scholar 49(1979) :81-88. 
[Abstract] "The Censorship of Copernicus' De Revolutionibus." Bulle- 



tin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1980) :661. 
— . "The Ring of Brogar." Harvard Magazine 81(1979) :5-6. 
-. [Abstract] "Radio Astronomy and the Nature of Science." Abstracts of 



Papers of the 146th National Meeting, American Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science (1980) :93. 

"Renaissance Astronomy and the Rise of Humanism." In Humanism 



and the Development of Cultures, pp. 404-15, 1980. 

— . "The Censor's Tracts." Harvard Magazine 82(1980) :12-13. 

"Walter Baade." In Dictionary of American Biography, Supplement 6, 



pp. 30-32. New York: Scribner's, 1980. 

Golub, L.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Rosner, R.; Topka, K.; and Vaiana, G. S. 
[Abstract] "X-Ray Observations of the Alpha Cen System from Einstein." 
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1980) :775. 

Golub, L.; Maxson, C; Rosner, R.; Serio, S.; and Vaiana, G. S. "Magnetic 
Fields and Coronal Heating." Astrophysical Journal 238(1980) :343-48. 

Gorenstein, P.; Fabricant, D.; Topka, K.; and Harnden, F. R., Jr. "Soft X-Ray 
Structure of the Coma Cluster of Galaxies." Astrophysical Journal 230(1979) : 
26-34. 

Grindlay, J. E. "The Optical Counterpart of GX 339 - 4, a Possible Black Hole 
X-Ray Source." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 232(1979) :L33-L37. 

. "X-Ray Studies of Globular Clusters, Bursters, and Galactic Bulge 

Sources." In Proceedings of the Workshop on "Observing Compact Objects," 
pp. 99-104. Washington, D.C., 1979. 

Grindlay, J.; Branduardi, G.; Hertz, P.; Marshall, H.; and Murray, S. [Abstract] 
"Precise Locations of Globular Cluster X-Ray Sources Observed by the Ein- 
stein Observatory." Bulletin of the American Physical Society 24(1979) :584. 

Grindlay, J.; Steiner, J.; Forman, W.; Canizares, C; and McClintock, J. "Dis- 
covery of Low Redshift X-Ray Quasars: A Possible New Key to the QSO 
Phenomenon." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 239(1980) :L43. Abstract in 
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1980) :777. 

Gursky, H.; Black, J. H.; Davis, R. J.; Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L.; Howarth, 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 427 



I.; Matilsky, T.; Raymond, J.; Willis, A. J.; and Wilson, R. "IUE Observa- 
tions of the X-Ray Source HZ Herculis/Her X-l." In The First Year of IUE, 
ed. A. J. Willis, p. 305. London, England: University College London, 1979. 

Gursky, H.; Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L. W.; Raymond, J.; Davis, R. J.; Black, 
J.; Matilsky, T. A.; Howarth, I. D.; Willis, A. J.; Wilson, R.; Sandford, 
M. C. W.; Vanden Bout, R.; Sanner, F.; Hammerschlag-Hensberg, G.; van 
den Heuvel, E. P. J.; Lamers, H. J. G. L. M.; Burger, M.; and de Loore, C. 
"The Observations of the X-Ray Source HZ Herculis/Her X-l." Astro- 
physical Journal 237(1980) : 163-68. 

Gursky, H; Hartmann, L.; Black, J. H.; Davis, R. J.; Raymond, J. C.; Dupree, 
A. K.; and Matilsky, T. "IUE Observations of Globular Clusters." In The 
First Year of the IUE, ed. A. J. Willis, pp. 319-30. London, England: Univer- 
sity College London, 1979. 

Gursky, H, and Leach, R. W. "The Cosmic Ray Background in Charge Coupled 
Devices." Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 91(1980): 
855. 

Habbal, S. R.; Leer, E.; and Holzer, T. E. "Heating of Coronal Loops by Fast 
Mode MHD Waves." Solar Physics 64(1979) :287-301. 

Habbal, S. R., and Rosner, R. "Thermal Instabilities in Magnetically Confined 
Plasmas: Solar Coronal Loops." Astrophysical Journal 234(1979) :1113-21. 

Hagen, W.; Black, J. H.; Dupree, A. K.; and Holm, A. V. "Ultraviolet Spectro- 
scopic Observations of VV Cephei." Astrophysical Journal 238(1980) :203-9. 

Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Beuhler, B.; Giacconi, R.; Grindlay, J.; Hertz, P.; Schreier, 
E.; Seward, F.; Tananbaum, H.; and van Speybroeck, L. [Abstract] "X-Ray 
Observations of the Crab Nebula with the Einstein Observatory." Bulletin 
of the American Astronomical Society 11(1980) :789. 

Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Branduardi, G.; Elvis, M.; Gorenstein, P.; Grindlay, J.; 
Pye, J. P.; Rosner, R.; Topka, K.; and Vaiana, G. S. "Discovery of an X-Ray 
Star Association in Vi Cygni (Cygnus OB2)." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 
234(1979) :L51-L54. 

Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Golub, L.; Rosner, R.; Seward, F.; Topka, K.; and Vaiana, 
G. S. [Abstract] "O Stars and Ob Associations Observed from Einstein." 
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1980) :775. 

Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Hertz, P.; Gorenstein, P.; Grindlay, J.; Schreier, E.; and 
Seward, F. [Abstract] "High Resolution X-Ray Images of the Crab and Vela 
Pulsars." Bulletin of the American Physical Society 25(1980) :509. 

Harris, D. E., and Grindlay, J. E. "The Prospects for X-Ray Detection of In- 
verse Compton Emission from Radio Source Electrons and Photons of the 
Microwave Background." Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 
188(1979) :25-27. 

Hartmann, L.; Davis, R.; Dupree, A. K.; Raymond, J.; Schmidtke, P. C; and 
Wing, R. F. "Chromospheres of the Active Dwarf Binaries EQ Peg and £ 
Boo." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 233(1979) :L69. 

Hartmann, L.; Dupree, A. K.; and Raymond, J. C. "Hybrid Atmospheres and 
Winds in Supergiant Stars." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 236(1980) :L143. 

Hartmann, L.; Jaffe, D.; and Huchra, J. "On the Nature of MWC 349." Astro- 
physical Journal 239(1980) :905-10. 

Hartquist, T. W.; Oppenheimer, M.; and Dalgarno, A. "Molecular Diagnostics 
in Interstellar Shocks." Astrophysical Journal 236(1980) :182-88. 

Hartquist, T. W.; Oppenheimer, M.; and Elmegreen, B. "The Effect of Cosmic 
Ray Screening Upon the Stability of Interstellar Clouds." Astronomy and 
Astrophysics 75(1979) :137-39. 

Haschick, A. D.; Crane, P. C; Greenfield, P. E.; Baan, W. A.; and Burke, B. F. 
"High Resolution Observations of the Neutral Hydrogen Absorption and 
Radio Continuum Emission of the Radio Source 3C 178." Astrophysical 
Journal 239(1980) :774. 



428 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Haschick, A. D.; Moran, J. M; Rodriguez, L. F.; Burke, B. F.; Greenfield, P. E.; 
and Garcia-Barreto, J. A. "Observations of a Compact H II Region and Water 
Vapor Maser Sources in the Vicinity of the Herbig-Haro Objects 7-11." 
Astrophysical Journal 237(1980) :26-37. 

Haschick, A. D.; Reid, M. J.; Moran, J. M.; and Miller, G. [Abstract] "VLBI 
Aperture Synthesis Observations of the OH Maser Source W75N." Bulletin 
of the American Astronomical Society 12(1980) :484. 

Heil, T. G., and Dalgarno, A. "Diabatic Molecular States." Journal of Physics 
B, Atomic and Molecular Physics 12(1979) :L557-L560. 

Helmken, H. F.; Horine, E.; and Weekes, T. C. "The Mt. Hopkins Sky Survey 
for Gamma Rays of Energy 100-1000 GeV I: Observations." Proceedings of 
the Sixteenth International Cosmic Ray Conference, Kyoto, Japan 1(1979): 
120. 

Henry, J. P.; Branduardi, G.; Briel, U.; Fabricant, D.; Feigelson, E.; Murray, S.; 
Soltan, A.; and Tananbaum, H. "Detection of X-Ray Emission from Distant 
Clusters of Galaxies." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 234(1979) :L15-L19. 

Hertz, P., and Grindlay, J. [Abstract] "Structure and Isothermality of X-Ray 
Globular Clusters." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1980): 
787. 

Johnson, H. M.; Schnopper, H. W.; and Delvaille, J. P. "SAS-3 and Related 
Observations of Abell 2029." Astrophysical Journal 236(1980) :738-44. 

Johnson, T. V.; Cook, A. F.; Sagan, C; and Soderblom, L. A. "Volcanic Resur- 
facing Rates and Implications for Volatiles on Io." Nature 280(1979) :746-50. 

Johnston, M. C; Doxsey, R. E.; Marshall, F. E.; and Schwartz, D. A. [Abstract] 
"Discovery of a Bright X-Ray Cluster of Galaxies at Low Galactic Latitude." 
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12(1980) :487. 

Jones, C; Mandel, E.; Schwarz, J.; Forman, W.; Murray, S. S.; and Harnden, 
F. R., Jr. "The Structure and Evolution of X-Ray Clusters." Astrophysical 
Journal (Letters) 234(1979) :L21-L25. 

Kahler, S. W.; Golub, L.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Steward, F. D.; and Vaiana, G. S. 
[Abstract] "Coordinated X-Ray, Optical and Radio Observations of Flares 
from the dMe Star YZ Canis Majoris." Bulletin of the American Astronomi- 
cal Society 12(1980) :526. 

Kalkofen, W., and Klein, R. I. "Stellar Atmosphere in Statistical Equilibrium." 
Astrophysical Journal 234(1979) :200-5. 

Kalkofen, W.; Klein, R. I.; and Stein, R. F. "Deviations from LTE in a Stellar 
Atmosphere," Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer 
21(1979) :355. 

Kalkofen, W., and Ulmschneider, P. "Acoustic Dissipation and H" Radiation 
in the Solar Chromosphere. II." Astrophysical Journal 227(1979) :655-63. 

Katz, J., and Lecar, M. "A Note on the Stability of One-Dimensional Self- 
Gravitating Isothermal Systems." Astrophysics and Space Science 68(1980): 
495. 

Kirby, K.; Constantinides, E. R.; Babeu, S.; Oppenheimer, M.; and Victor, G. A. 
"Photoionization and Photoabsorption Cross Sections of He, O, N 2 , and 0» 
for Aeronomic Calculations." Atomic Data and Nuclear Data Tables 23 
(1979) :63-81. 

Kirby, K.; Roberge, W.; Saxon, R. P.; and Liu, B. "Photodissociation Cross 
Sections and Rates for CH + in Interstellar Clouds." Astrophysical Journal 
239(1980) :855-58. 

Knight, R. D., and Prior, M. H. "Radiative Lifetime of Metastable 2 3 Si Li + ." 
Physical Review A21(1980) :179. 

Koch, D. "The Infrared Telescope on Spacelab 2." Space Optics, Society of 
Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers 183(1979) :16. 

Kurucz, R. L. [Abstract] "SiO in the Ultraviolet Solar System." Bulletin of the 
American Astronomical Society 11(1980) :710. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 429 



Kurucz, R. L., and Furenlid, I. "A Sample Spectral Atlas for Sirius." Smith- 
sonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report No. 387, 142 pp., 1980. 
Lane, A. P.; Predmore, C. R.; Genzel, R.; and Moran, J. M. [Abstract] "SiO 

Maser Emission from Late-Type Stars and Orion." Bulletin of the American 

Astronomical Society 12(1980) :499. 
Lang, K., and Gingerich, O. Source Book in Astronomy and Astrophysics 1900- 

1975. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1979. 
Layzer, D.; Rosner, R.; and Doyle, H. T. "On the Origins of Solar Magnetic 

Fields." Astrophysical Journal 229(1979) :1126-37. 
Leach, R. W.; Schild, R. E.; Gursky, H.; Madejski, G. W.; Schwartz, D. A.; 

and Weekes, T. C. "Description, Performance and Calibration of a Charge 

Coupled Device Camera." Publications of the Astronomical Society of the 

Pacific 92(1980) :233-45. 
Levine, R. H.; Schulz, M.; and Frazier, E. N. [Abstract] "Improved Models of 

Coronal Magnetic Structure: The Non-Spherical Source Surface." Bulletin of 

the American Astronomical Society 11(1980) :697. 
Lightman, A. P.; and Rybicki, G. B. "Inverse Compton Reflection: The Steady 

State Theory." Astrophysical Journal 236(1980) :928-44. 
. "Inverse Compton Reflection: Time Dependent Theory." Astrophysical 

Journal 232(1979) :882-90. 
Liller, M. H. "Historical Light Curve for Stepanian's Variable Star in Serpens." 

Information Bulletin on Variable Stars No. 1743, 1980. 
Liller, M. H., and Schommer, R. A. "Photometric Observations of the Variable 

(?) uv-Bright Star K1082 in M15." Information Bulletin on Variable Stars 

No. 1752, 1980. 
London, R.; McCray, R.; and Auer, L. H. [Abstract] "The Structure of X-Ray 

Illuminated Stellar Atmospheres." Bulletin of the American Astronomical 

Society 12(1980) :520. 
McBreen, B.; Fazio, G.; Stier, M.; and Wright, E. L. "Evidence for a Variable 

Far-Infrared Source in NGC 6334." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 232 

(1979) :L183-L188. 
Marsden, B. G. "Introduction." In Dynamics of the Solar Systems, ed. R. L. 

Duncombe, pp. ix-x. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 

1979. 
. [Abstract] "Rediscoveries of Lost One-Apparition Comets." Bulletin 

of the American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :801. 

"Report of the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams (Commis- 



sion No. 6)." Transactions of the International Astronomical Union 17A 
(1979) :13-14. 

"Report of IAU Commission No. 20." Transactions of the International 



Astronomical Union 17A(1979) :133-44. 

Marshall, H.; Grindlay, J.; and Weisskopf, M. [Abstract] "Observations of the 
Rapid Burster (MXB1730-335) Using the Einstein Observatory." Bulletin of 
the American Astronomical Society 11(1980) :788. 

Marvin, U. B. "An Unpublished Memoir on Meteorites by Lyman Spaulding, 
1810." Meteoritics 14(1979) :197-205. 

. "Impact of Technology on Volcanology, Geochemistry, and Petrology." 

In Impact of Technology on Geophysics, Chapter 10, Studies in Geophysics, 
pp. 87-95. Washington, D.C. : National Academy of Sciences, 1979. 

Marvin, U. B. "Guidebook to Breccia 67015." Curatorial Branch Publication 
51. Houston, Texas: Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center, 1979. 

McClintock, J.; Canizares, C; Li, F.; and Grindlay, J. "Simultaneous X-Ray 
and Optical Studies of the 7 s X-Ray Pulsar 4U1626-67." Astrophysical Jour- 
nal (Letters) 235(1980) :L81-L85. 

Millis, A. J., and Liller, M. H. "The Variable Stars in NGC 6584." Astronomi- 
cal Journal 85(1980) :234-41. 



430 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Moran, J. M., and Rodriguez, L. F. [Abstract] "Water Vapor Masers and Star 
Formation in NGC 6334." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 
11(1979) :714. 

. "Water Vapor Masers and Star Formation in NGC 6334." Astro- 
physical Journal (Letters) 236(1980) :L159-Ll63. 

Mould, J.; Aaronson, M.; and Huchra, J. "A Distance Scale from the Infrared 
Magnitude/H I Velocity-Width Relation II. The Virgo Cluster." Astrophysi- 
cal Journal 238(1980) :458-70. 

Murray, S. S.; Fabbiano, G.; Fabian, A.; Epstein, A.; and Giacconi, R. "High 
Resolution X-Ray Observation of the Cas Supernova Remnant with the Ein- 
stein Observatory." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 234(1979) :L69. 

Nisenson, P., and Stachnik, R. V. "Speckle Imaging." In Proceedings of the IAU 
Colloquium on Optical Interferometry, University of Sydney, 1979. 

Noyes, R. W. "Overview on the Study of the Solar Cycle from Space." In 
NASA Conference Publication 2098, Proceedings of the Symposium on the 
Study of the Solar Cycle from Space, pp. 31-42. Washington, D.C. : NASA, 
1979. 

. "The Sun as a Star." In Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special 

Report No. 389, pp. 1-13, 1980. 

Pallavicini, R., and Poletto, G. "Risultati Recenti e Problemi Aperti in Fisica 
Solare." Giornale di Astron. 5(1979) :19, 105. 

Perrenod, S. C, and Chaisson, E. J. "A Search for 21-cm Absorption in 
Quasars of High Redshift." Astrophysical Journal 232(1979) :49. 

Peterson, R. C; Willmarth, D. W.; Carney, B. W.; and Chaffee, F. H. "BD 
— 0°4234: A High Velocity, Metal-Poor, Double-Lined Spectroscopic Binary." 
Astrophysical Journal 239(1980) :928-36. 

Pineda, F. J.; Delvaille, J. P.; Grindlay, J. E.; Huchra, J.; and Schnopper, H. W. 
"X-Ray and Optical Observations of MCG-6-30-15." Astrophysical Journal 
237(1980) :414-23. 

Press, W. H. "On Gravitational Conductors, Waveguides, and Circuits." Gen- 
eral Relativity and Gravitation 11(1979) :105. 

. "Spontaneous Production of the Zel'dovich Spectrum of Cosmological 

Fluctuations." Physica Scripta 21(1980) :702. 

Press, W. H., and Vishniac, E. T. "Production of New Cosmological Perturba- 
tions during the Radiation-Dominated Era." Nature 279(1979) :137. 

. "Propagation of Adiabatic Cosmological Perturbations Through the 

Era of Matter-Radiation Decoupling." Astrophysical Journal 236(1980) :323- 
34. 

'Tenacious Myths About Cosmological Perturbations Larger than the 



Horizon Size." Astrophysical Journal 239(1980) :1. 

Raymond, J. C; Black, J. H.; Davis, R. J.; Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L.; and 
Matilsky, T. A. "Ultraviolet Observations of AM Herculis with IUE." Astro- 
physical Journal (Letters) 230(1979) :L95. 

Raymond, J. C; Black, J. H.; Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L.; and Wolff, R. S. 
"Ultraviolet Observations of the Cygnus Loop." Astrophysical Journal 238 
(1980) :881-85. 

Raymond, J. C; Davis, M.; Gull, T.; and Parker, R. A. R. "Optical Detection of 
a Fast Shock Wave Associated with the Cygnus Loop." Astrophysical Jour- 
nal (Letters) 238(1980) :L21. 

Raymond, J. C; Noyes, R. W.; and Stopa, M. P. "The Balmer 9 and Balmer 11 
Lines of He II in the Sun." Solar Physics 61(1979) :271-77 '. 

Reid, M. J.; Haschick, A. D.; Burke, B. F.; Moran, J. M.; Johnston, K. J.; and 
Swenson, G. W. "The Structure of Interstellar Hydroxyl Masers: VLBI Syn- 
thesis Observations of W3(OH)." Astrophysical Journal 239(1980) :89. 

Robertson, D. S.; Carter, W. E.; Corey, B. E.; Counselman, C. C; Shapiro, I. I.; 
Wittels, J. J.; Hinteregger, H. F.; Knight, C. A.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Whitney, 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 431 



A. R.; Ryan, J. W.; Clark, T. A.; Coates, R.; Ma, C; and Moran, J. M. 
"Recent Results of Radio Interferometry Determination of Polar Motion and 
Earth Rotation." In Proceedings of the International Astronomical Union 
Symposium No. 86, Time and the Earth's Rotation, eds. D. D. McCarthy and 
J. D. Pilkington, pp. 217-24. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Com- 
pany, 1979. 

Rodriguez, L. F., and Chaisson, E. J. "On the Ionizing Agent of the Extended 
Thermal Component in the Galactic Center." Astrophysical Journal 231 
(1979) :697. 

Rodriguez, L. F., and Chaisson, E. J. "On the Radio and Near-Infrared 
Hydrogen-Line Emission from M82." Astrophysical Journal 238(1980) :41. 

. [Abstract] "The Temperature and Dynamics of the Ionized Gas in the 

Nucleus of Our Galaxy." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 
10(1979) :679. 

Rodriguez, L. F.; Ho, P. T. P.; and Moran, J. M. [Abstract] "High Velocity CO 
Emission from Cepheus A." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 
11(1979) :714. 

Rodriguez, L. F.; Moran, J. M.; Ho, P. T. P.; and Gottlieb, E. W. [Abstract] 
"Radio Observations of Water Vapor, Hydroxyl, Silicon Monoxide, Ammo- 
nia, Carbon Monoxide, and Compact H II Regions in the Vicinities of 
Herbig-Haro Objects." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 
11(1979) :400. 

Rosner, R.; Giacconi, R.; Golub, L.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Topka, K.; and Vaiana, 
G. S. [Abstract] "X-Ray Observations of Very Late-Type Dwarf Stars from 
the Einstein Observatory." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 
11(1980) :776. 

Rybicki, G. B., and Lightman, A. P. "Radiative Processes in Astrophysics." 
New York: John Wiley, 1980. 

Sakurai, T. "A New Approach to the Force-Free Field and Its Application to 
the Magnetic Field of Solar Active Regions." Publications of the Astro- 
nomical Society of Japan 31(1979) :209. 

Sandel, B. R.; Shemansky, D. E.; Broadfoot, A. L.; Bertaux, J. L.; Blamont, 
J. E.; Belton, M. J. S.; Ajello, J. M.; Holberg, J. B.; Atreya, S. K.; Donahue, 
T. M.; Moos, H. W.; Strobel, D. F.; McConnell, J. C; Dalgarno, A.; Goody, 
R.; McElroy, M. B.; and Takacs, P. Z. "Extreme Ultraviolet Observations 
from Voyager 2 Encounter with Jupiter." Science 206(1979) :962-66. 

Schild, R.; Leach, R.; Weekes, T.; and Gursky, H. "Study of Einstein Observa- 
tory Fields with a CCD Camera." Astronomical Journal 85(1980) :121. 

Schild, R. E., and Weekes, T. C. "CCD Camera Photometry of cD Galaxies in 
Poor Clusters." In Proceedings of the Conference on Photometry Kinematics 
and Dynamics of Galaxies, ed. D. S. Evans, p. 59. Austin, Tex.: University 
of Texas Press, 1979. 

Schreier, E. J.; Feigelson, E.; Delvaille, J.; Giacconi, R.; Grindlay, J. E.; 
Schwartz, D. A.; and Fabian, A. C. "Einstein Observations of the X-Ray 
Structure of Centaurus A: Evidence for the Radio Lobe Energy Source." 
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 234(1979) :L39-L43. 

Schwartz, D. A. "A-3 Scientific Results — Extragalactic." In HEAO Science 
Symposium, edited by C. Dailey and W. Johnson, pp. 114-39, NASA CP- 
2113. Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 
1980. 

. "Irregularities in the X-Ray Background." Physica Scripta 21(1980) :644. 

Schwartz, D. A.; Bradt, H.; Briel, U.; Doxsey, R. E.; Fabbiano, G.; Griffiths, 
R. E.; Johnston, M. D.; and Margon, B. "Location of Three Stellar X-Ray 
Sources at High Galactic Latitudes by the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation 
Collimator." Astronomical Journal 84(1979) :1560-65. 

Schwartz, D. A.; Garcia, M.; Conroy, M.; Ralph, E.; Roberts, W.; Griffiths, 
R. E.; Johnston, M.; McHardy, I.; Lawrence, A.; and Pye, J. [Abstract] 



432 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



"Precise Location of 3A2352+28: The High Galactic Latitude Transient 
A0000+28." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12(1980) :513. 

Schwartz, D. A.; Giacconi, R.; Griffiths, R. E.; Maccacaro, T.; Murray, S. S.; 
and Zamorani, G. [Abstract] "The Slope of the Faint X-Ray Source Counts 
and Models of Cosmological Evolution." Bulletin of the American Astro- 
nomical Society 11(1979) :652. 

Schwartz, D. A.; Griffiths, R. A.; Thorstensen, J. R.; Charles, P. A.; and 
Bowyer, S. "Optical Identification of 4U 1907+09 Using the HEAO-1 Scan- 
ning Modulation Collimator Position." Astronomical Journal 85(1979): 
549-54. 

Schwartz, D. A.; Henry, P.; Maccacaro, T.; Tananbaum, H. D.; and Zamorani, 
G. [Abstract] "A Method for the Analysis of Heterogeneous Samples: The 
Shape of the Quasar X-Ray Luminosity Function." Bulletin of the American 
Astronomical Society 11(1979) :772. 

Sekanina, Z. "Expected Characteristics of Large Dust Particles in Periodic 
Comet Halley." In The Comet Halley Micrometeoroid Hazard, ed. N. Long- 
don, pp. 25-34. Noordwijk, Holland: ESTEC, 1979. 

. [Abstract] "Physical Similarities Between Dissipating Comets and 

Short-Lived Fragments of the Split Comets." Bulletin of the American Astro- 
nomical Society 12(1980) :511. 

Seward, F. D.; Forman, W. R.; Giacconi, R.; Griffiths, R. E.; Harnden, F. R., 
Jr.; Jones, C; and Pye, J. P. "X-Rays from Eta Carinae and the Surrounding 
Nebula." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 234(1979) :L55-L58. 

Shorer, P., and Dalgarno, A. "Applications of the Relativistic Random Phase 
Approximation." Physica Scripta 21(1980) :432-35. 

Smith, B. A.; Shoemaker, E. M.; and Cook, A. F. "The Role of SO2 in Volcan- 
ism on Io." Nature 280(1979) :738-43. 

Smith, B. A.; Soderblom, L. A.; Beebe, R.; Boyce, J.; Briggs, G.; Carr, M. 
Collins, S. A.; Cook, A. F.; Danielson, G. E.; Davies, M. E.; Hunt, G. E. 
Ingersoll, A. P.; Johnson, T. V.; Masursky, H.; McCauley, J.; Morrison, D. 
Owen, T.; Sagan, C; Shoemaker, E. M.; Strom, R.; Suomi, V. E.; and 
Veverka, J. "The Galilean Satellites and Jupiter: Voyager 2 Imaging Science 
Results." Science 206(1979) :927-50. 

Smith, B. A.; Soderblom, L. A.; Johnson, T. V.; Ingersoll, A. P.; Collins, S. A. 
Shoemaker, E. M.; Hunt, G. E.; Masursky, H.; Carr, M. H.; Davies, M. E. 
Cook, A. F.; Boyce, J.; Danielson, G. E.; Owen, T.; Sagan, C; Beebe, R. F. 
Veverka, J.; Strom, R. G.; McCauley, J. F.; Morrison, D.; Briggs, G. A.; and 
Suomi, V. E. "The Jupiter System through the Eyes of Voyager 1." Science 
204(1979) :951-72. 

Smith, H. A.; Millis, A. J.; and Liller, M. H. "On the Suspected Ultra-Short 
Period Variable in M15." Publications of the Astronomical Society of the 
Pacific 91(1979) :671-73. 

Taam, R. E.; Flannery, B. P.; and Faulkner, J. "Gravitational Radiation and the 
Evolution of Cataclysmic Binaries." Astrophysical Journal 239(1980) :1017-23. 

Tananbaum, H.; Avni, Y.; Branduardi, G.; Elvis, M.; Fabbiano, G.; Feigelson, 
E.; Giacconi, R.; Henry, J. P.; Pye, J. P.; Soltan, A.; and Zamorani, G. "X-Ray 
Studies of Quasars with the Einstein Observatory." Astrophysical Journal 
(Letters) 234(1979) :L9-Ll3. 

Tananbaum, H.; Epstein, A.; Forman, W., Giacconi, R.; Grindlay, J.; Harnden, 
F. R., Jr.; Jones, C; Schreier, E.; Seward, F.; and Van Speybroeck, L. 
[Abstract] "X-Ray Observations of the Crab Nebula with the Einstein Ob- 
servatory." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :424. 

Tang, C. H., and Grossi, M. D. "Results of the Viking Radioelectric Measure- 
ments of Mars Surface Properties." In Proceedings of the Second Colloquium 
on Planetary Water and Polar Processes, pp. 51-54. Hanover, N.H. : U.S. 
Army Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory, 1979. 

Thorstensen, J.; Charles, P.; Bowyer, S.; Briel, U. G.; Doxsey, R. E.; Griffiths, 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 433 



R. E.; and Schwartz, D. A. "A Precise Position and Optical Identification for 
4U 2129 + 47: X-Ray Heating and a 5.2-Hour Binary Period." Astrophysical 
Journal (Letters) 233(1979) :L57-L61. 

Topka, K.; Fabricant, D.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Gorenstein, P.; and Rosner, R. 
"Detection of Soft X-Rays from Alpha Lyrae and Eta Bootis with an Imaging 
X-Ray Telescope." Astrophysical Journal 229(1979) :661-68. 

Topka, K.; Golub, L.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Gorenstein, P.; Rosner, R.; and 
Vaiana, G. S. [Abstract] "A Magnitude Limited Stellar Survey with Ein- 
stein." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1980) :781. 

Turner, E. L., and Geller, M. "The Correlation of the Cosmic X-Ray Back- 
ground with the Light of Galaxies." Astrophysical Journal 236(1980) :l-5. 

Vaiana, G. S. "Stellar Coronae: Overview of the Einstein/CFA Stellar Survey." 
In Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report No. 389, pp. 195- 
215. 1980. 

Van Speybroeck, L.; Bechtold, J.; Epstein, A.; Forman, W.; Giacconi, R.; 
Grindlay, J.; Jones, C; Murray, S.; Schreier, E., and Seward, F. [Abstract] 
"Observations of X-Ray Sources in M31 with the Einstein Observatory." 
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1980) :609. 

Van Speybroeck, L.; Elvis, M.; Epstein, A.; Forman, W.; Giacconi, R.; Grind- 
lay, J.; Jones, C; Murray, S.; Schreier, E.; and Seward, F. [Abstract] "Ob- 
servations of X-Ray Sources in M31 with the Einstein Observatory." Bulletin 
of the American Physical Society 24(1979) :640. 

Van Speybroeck, L.; Epstein, A.; Forman, W.; Giacconi, R.; Jones, C; Liller, 
W.; and Smarr, L. "Observations of X-Ray Sources in M31." Astrophysical 
Journal (Letters) 234(1979) :L45-L49. 

Vernazza, J. E., and Raymond, J. C. "On the Ionization Balance Equilibrium." 
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 228(1979) :L89. 

Victor, G. A., and Laughlin, C. "Intercombination Line Oscillator Strengths 
for the Mgl Isoelectronic Sequence." Astrophysical Journal 234(1979) :407-9. 

Waller, W. H. "Eclipse at Japal-Rangapur Observatory." Star and Sky 2(1980) : 
23-25. 

Weekes, T. C. "Constraints on Point Source Neutrino-Astronomy from Very 
High Energy Gamma Ray Observations." Proceedings of the 1978 DUMAND 
Summer Workshop, vol. 2, ed. A. Roberts, p. 313. La Jolla, California, 1979. 

Weekes, T. C; Helmken, H. F.; and Grindlay, J. E. "The Mt. Hopkins Sky 
Survey for Gamma Rays of Energy 100 — 1000 GeV III: Galactic Plane and 
Extended Sources." In Proceedings of the Sixteenth International Cosmic 
Ray Conference, Kyoto, Japan, vol. 1, pp. 132-37, 1979. 

Weekes, T. C; Helmken, H. F.; and L'Heureux, J. "The Mt. Hopkins Sky Sur- 
vey for Gamma Rays of Energy 100 — 1000 GeV II: Point Sources." In Pro- 
ceedings of the Sixteenth International Cosmic Ray Conference, Kyoto, 
Japan, vol. 1, p. 126, 1979. 

Weinberg, S. "Baryon and Lepton Nonconserving Processes." Physical Review 
Letters 43(1979) :1566. 

. "Beyond the First Three Minutes. Closing Talk at the Conference on 

the Universe at Large Redshifts, Copenhagen, June 1979." Physica Scripta 
21(1979) :773. 

"Cosmological Production of Baryons." Physical Review Letters 42 



(1979) :850. 

— . "Effective Gauge Theories." Physics Letters 9lB(1980) :51. 

"Einstein and Spacetime: Then and Now." Bulletin of the American 



Academy of Arts and Sciences 33(1979) :35. 

. "Gauge Hierarchies." Physics Letters 82B(1979) :387. 

"Implications of Dynamical Symmetry Breaking: An Addendum." 



Physical Review D 19(1979) :1277. 
. "Phenomenological Lagrangians." Physics 96A(1979) :327; also in 



434 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Themes in Contemporary Physics, ed. S. Deser et al. Amsterdam: North 
Holland Publishing Company, 1979. 

"Ultraviolet Divergences in Quantum Theories of Gravitation, Con- 



tribution to the Einstein Centenary Volume." In General Relativity, eds. 

S. W. Hawking and W. Israel, p. 790. England: Cambridge University Press, 

1979. 
Weisskopf, M. C; Darbro, W.; Eisner, R. F.; Ghosh, P.; Sutherland, P. G.; and 

Grindlay, J. E. [Abstract] "Observations of 4U1626-67 with the Monitor 

Proportional Counter on the Einstein (HEAO-2) Observatory." Bulletin of 

the American Astronomical Society 11(1980) :773. 
Weymann, R.; Chaffee, F., Jr.; Davis, M.; Carleton, N. P.; Walsh, D.; and 

Carswell, R. "Multiple Mirror Telescope Observations of the QSOs 0957+ 

561 A,B." Astrophysical Journal 233(1979) :L43-L46. 
Whipple, F. L. "Reminiscences of the Space Age." Galileo 11(1979) :17-18. 
. "Structure on the Cometary Nucleus. Experimental Approaches to 

Comets." Contribution No. 361, Lunar and Planetary Institute, Houston, 

Texas, p. 5, 1979. 

"The Spin of Comets." Scientific American 242(1980) :88-96. 



Whipple, F. L., and Sekanina, Z. "Comet Encke: Precession of the Spin Axis, 
Nongravitational Motion, and Sublimation." Astronomical Journal 84(1979): 
1894-1909. 

Whitaker, R. W., and Kurucz, R. L. [Abstract] "Theoretical Colors for Helium 
Rich Cepheids." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :438. 

Willis, A. J.; Wilson, R.; Vanden Bout, P.; Sanner, F.; Black, J.; Davis, R. J.; 
Dupree, A. K.; Gursky, H.; Hartmann, L.; Matilsky, T.; Burger, M.; de 
Loore, C; van Dessel, E. L.; Whitelock, P.; Menzies, J.; Sanford, P.; Pollard, 
G.; and Sandford, M. C. W. "IUE Ultraviolet and Complementary Visible and 
X-Ray Observations of SCO X-l." In The First Year of IUE, pp. 291-304. 
London, England: University College London, 1979. 

Willis, A. J.; Wilson, R.; Vanden Bout, P.; Sanner, F.; Black, J.; Davis, R. J.; 
Dupree, A. K.; Gursky, H.; Hartmann, L.; Raymond, J.; Matilsky, T.; Burger, 
M.; de Loore, C; van Dessel, E. L.; Whitelock, P.; Menzies, J.; Meikle, 
W. P. S.; Joseph, R. D.; Sanford, P.; Pollard, G.; and Sandford, M. C. W. 
"Ultraviolet, Visible, Infrared, and X-Ray Observations of SCO X-l." Astro- 
physical Journal 237(1980) :596-612. 

Wilson, T.; Fazio, G.; Jaffee, D.; Kleinmann, D. E.; Wright, E.; and Low, F. 
"A Comparison of High Resolution Radio and Far-Infrared Maps of M17." 
Astronomy and Astrophysics 76(1979) :86-91. 

Zamorani, G.; Elvis, M.; Fabbiano, G.; Feigelson, E.; Giacconi, R.; Grindlay, J.; 
Henry, J. P.; Maccacaro, T.; Murray, S.; Schwartz, S. A.; Soltan, A.; Steiner, 
J.; and Tananbaum, H. [Abstract] "X-Ray Properties of QSO's from Einstein 
Observations." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1980) :776. 

Zombeck, M. "High Energy Astrophysics Handbook." Smithsonian Astro- 
physical Observatory Special Report No. 386, 1980. 

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 

Ackerman, James D., and Mesler, Michael R. "Pollination Biology of Listera 

cordata (Orchidaceae)." American Journal of Botany 66(3) (1979) :820-24. 
Aiello, Annette. "Life History and Behavior of the Case-bearer Phereoca 

allutella (Lepidoptera: Tineidae)." Psyche 86(2-3) (1979) :125-36. 
Andrews, Robin M. "Reproductive Effort of Female Anolis limifrons (Sauria: 

Iguanidae)." Copeia 3(1979) :620-26. 
Augspurger, Carol K. "Irregular Rain Cues and the Germination and Seedling 

Survival of a Panamanian Shrub (Hybanthus prunifolius)." Oecologia 44(1) 

(1979) :53-59. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 435 



. "Mass-flowering of a Tropical Shrub (Hybanthus prunifolius) : In- 
fluence on Pollinator Attraction and Movement." Evolution 34 (3) (1980): 
475-88. 

Baker, Curtis L. "Jamming Avoidance Behavior in Gymnotoid Electric Fish with 
Pulse-type Discharges: Sensory Encoding for a Temporal Pattern Discrimina- 
tion." Journal of Comparative Physiology — [A] 136(2) (1980) :165-81. 

Bonaccorso, Frank J. "Foraging and Reproductive Ecology in a Panamanian 
Bat Community." Bulletin of the Florida State Museum, Biological Sciences 
24(4) (1979) :359-408. 

Boyden, Thomas C. "Floral Mimicry by Epidendrum ibaguense (Orchidaceae) 
in Panama." Evolution 34(1) (1980) :135-36. 

Buss, Leo W. "Broyozoan Overgrowth Interactions — The Interdependence of 
Competition for Space and Food." Nature 281(5731) (1979) :475-77. 

Caldwell, Roy L. "A Unique Form of Locomotion in a Stomatopod — Backward 
Somersaulting." Nature 282(5734) (1979) :71-73. 

Chacon, Patricia, and Eberhard, William G. "Factors Affecting Number and 
Kinds of Prey Caught in Artificial Spider Webs, with Considerations of How 
Orb Webs Trap Prey." Bulletin of the British Arachnological Society 5(1) 
(1980) :29-38. 

Coley, Phyllis D. "Effects of Leaf Age and Plant Life History Patterns on 
Herbivory." Nature 285(5756)(1980) :545-46. 

Cubit, John. "Heteromorphic Life Histories of Certain Marine Algae as Adapta- 
tions to Variation in Herbivory." Ecology 61(1980) :524-36. 

De Steven, Diane. "Clutch Size, Breeding Success, and Parental Survival in the 
Tree Swallow (Iridoprocne bicolor)." Evolution 34(2) (1980) :278-91. 

Dressier, Robert L. "Una Sievekingia llamativa de Panama." Orquideologia 
13(3) (1979) :221-24. 

. "An Attractive New Sievekingia from Panama." Orquideologia 13(3) 

(1979): 224-28. 

. "Una Vanilla notable de Panama." Orquideologia 13(3) (1979) :229-31. 

. "A Noteworthy Vanilla from Panama." Orquideologia 13(3)(1979): 



231-32. 
. "Una nueva Hexisea distinctiva de Panama: Hexisea arctata Dressier.' 



Orquidea (Mex.) 7(3) (1979) :215-21. 
. "A Distinctive New Hexisea from Panama: Hexisea arctata Dressier." 



Orquidea (Mex.) 7(3) (1979) :222-25. 

'Una enorme Scaphy glottis del occidente de Panama: Scaphyglottis 



gigantea Dressier, sp. nov." Orquidea (Mex.) 7(3) (1979) :227-31. 

-. "A Huge Scaphyglottis from Western Panama: Scaphyglottis gigantea 



Dressier, sp. nov." Orquidea (Mex.) 7(3) (1979) :231-34. 

"Salpistele, a new genus of the Pleurothallidinae." Orquideologia 



14(1) (1979) :11-17. 

"Salpistele, un genero nuevo de las Pleurothallidinae." Orquideologia 



14(1)(1979) :3-10. 

-. "The Subfamilies of the Orchidaceae." Selbyana 5(2) (1979) :197-206. 



Eberhard, William G. "Rates of Egg Production by Tropical Spiders in the 
Field." Biotropica 11 (4) (1979) :292-300. 

. "Horned Beetles." Scientific American 242(3) (1980) :166-82. 

Eberhard, William G., and Lahmann, E. "Factores selectivos que afectan la 
tendencia a agruparse en la arafia colonial Philoponella simiplumosa 
(Araneae: Uloboridae). Revista de Biologica Tropical 27(2) (1979) :231-40. 

Fischer, Eric A. "The Relationship Between Mating System and Simultaneous 
-Hermaphroditism in the Coral Reef Fish, Hypoplectrus nigricans (Ser- 
ranidae)." Animal Behaviour 28(2) (1980) :620-33. 

Fisk, Frank W., and Wolda, Henk. "Keys to the Cockroaches of Central 
Panama. Part I: Flying Species. Studies on Neotropical Fauna and Environ- 
ment 14(4) (1979) :177-201. 



436 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Garwood, Nancy. "Seed Germination in a Seasonal Tropical Forest in Panama." 
Ph.D. thesis, University of Chicago, 1979. 

Garwood, Nancy C.; Janos, David P.; and Brokaw, Nicholas. "Earthquake- 
caused Landslides: A Major Disturbance to Tropical Forests." Science 205 
(4410) (1979) :997-99. 

Gradwohl, Judy, and Greenberg, Russell. "The Formation of Antwren Flocks 
on Barro Colorado Island, Panama." The Auk 97(2) (1980) :385-95. 

Graves, John E., and Rosenblatt, Richard H. "Genetic Relationships of the 
Color Morphs of the Serranid Fish Hypoplectrus unicolor." Evolution 34(2) 
(1980) :240-45. 

Heck, Kenneth L., Jr. "Some Determinants of the Composition and Abundance 
of Motile Macroinvertebrate Species in Tropical and Temperate Turtlegrass 
(Thalassia testudinum) Meadows." Journal of Bio geography 6(2) (1979): 
138-200. 

Hendler, Gordon. "Reproductive Periodicity of Ophiuroids (Echinodermata : 
Ophiuroidea) on the Atlantic and Pacific Coasts of Panama." In Reproduc- 
tive Ecology of Marine Invertebrates, ed. Stephen E. Stancyk, pp. 145-56. 
Columbia, S.C.: University of South Carolina Press, 1979. 

. "Sex-reversal and Viviparity in Ophiolepis kieri, n.s., with Notes on 

Viviparous Brittlestars from the Caribbean (Echinodermata: Ophiuroidea)." 
In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 92(4) (1979) :783-95. 

Highsmith, Raymond C. "Geographic Patterns of Coral Bioerosion: A Produc- 
tivity Hypothesis." Journal of Experimental Marine Biology 46(1980) :177-96. 

Howe, Henry F. "Evolutionary Aspects of Parental Care in the Common 
Grackle, Quiscalus quiscula L." Evolution 33(1) (1979) :41-51. 

. "Fear and Frugivory." American Naturalist 114(6) (1979) :925-31. 

Jaslow, Alan P. "Vocalization and Aggression in Atelopus chiriquiensis (Am- 
phibia, Anuar, Bufonidae)." Journal of Herpetology 13(2) (1979) :141-45. 

Karr, James R. "Geographical Variation in the Avifaunas of Tropical Forest 
Undergrowth." The Auk 97(2) (1980) :283-98. 

Kiester, A. Ross. "Conspecifics as Cues: A Mechanism for Habitat Selection in 
the Panamanian Grass Anole (Anolis auratus)." Behavioral Ecology and 
Sociobiology 5 (4) (1979) :323-30. 

Kimsey, Lynn Siri. "An Illustrated Key to the Genus Exaerete with Descriptions 
of Male Genetalia and Biology (Hymenoptera: Euglossini, Apidae)." Journal 
of the Kansas Entomological Society 52(4) (1979) :735-46. 

Lang, Gerald E., and Knight, Dennis H. "Decay Rates for Boles of Tropical 
Trees in Panama." Biotropica 11 (4) (1979) :316-1317. 

Linnavouri, Rauno E., and DeLong, Dwight M. "New or Little Known Agallinae 
from Central America (Homoptera: Cicadellidae)." Journal of the Kansas 
Entomological Society 52(2) (1979) :405-ll. 

Lubin, Yael D. "The Predatory Behavior of Cyrtophora (Araneae: Araneidae)." 
Journal of Arachnology 8(1980) :159-85. 

May, Michael L. "Energy Metabolism of Dragonflies (Odonata: Anisoptera) 
at Rest and During Endothermic Warm-up." Journal of Experimental Biology 
83(1979) :79-94. 

. "Lista preliminar de nombre y clave para identificar los Odonata 

(Caballitos) de la Isla de Barro Colorado." Cuadernos de Ciencias 1(1979). 

'Temporal Activity Patterns of Micrathyria in Central America 



(Anisoptera: Libellulidae)." Odonatologica 9(1) (1980) :57-74. 
Milton, Katharine. "Factors Influencing Leaf Choice by Howler Monkeys: A 

Test of Some Hypotheses of Food Selection by Generalist Herbivores." The 

American Naturalist 114(3) (1979) :362-78. 
Morrison, Douglas W. "Apparent Male Defense of Tree Hollows in the Fruit 

Bat, Artibeus Jamaicensis." Journal of Mammalogy 60(1) (1979) :11-15. 
. "Efficiency of Food Utilization by Fruit Bats." Oecologia 45(1980): 

270-73. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 437 



. "Foraging and Day-roosting Dynamics of Canopy Fruit Bats in 

Panama." Journal of Mammalogy 61(1) (1980) :20-29. 

Moynihan, Martin. "Geographic Variation in Social Behavior and in Adapta- 
tions to Competition Among Andean Birds." Nuttall Ornithological Club, 
No. 18, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University (1979). 

Nagy, Kenneth A., and Milton, Katharine. "Energy Metabolism and Food Con- 
sumption by Wild Howler Monkeys (Alouatta palliata)." Ecology 60(3) 

(1979) :475-80. 

Palmer, A. Richard. "Fish Predation and the Evolution of Gastropod Shell 
Sculpture: Experimental and Geographic Evidence." Evolution 33 (2) (1979): 
697-713. 

Platnick, Norman I., and Shadab, Mohammad U. "A Review of the Spider 
Genera Anapisona and Pseudanapis (Araneae, Anapidae)." American Mu- 
seum Novitates 2672(1979) :l-20. 

Ricklefs, Robert L. " 'Watch-dog' Behaviour Observed at the Nest of a Coop- 
erative Breeding Bird, the Rufous-margined Flycatcher Myiozetetes cayanen- 
sis." The Ibis 122(1) (1980) :116-18. 

Robertson, D. Ross, and Lassig, Brian. "Spatial Distribution Patterns and Co- 
existence of a Group of Territorial Damselfishes from the Great Barrier 
Reef." Bulletin of Marine Sciences 30(1980) :187-203. 

Robertson, D. Ross, and Sheldon, Janice M. "Competitive Interactions and the 
Availability of Sleeping Sites for a Diurnal Coral Reef Fish." Journal of 
Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 40(3) (1979) :285-98. 

Robinson, Barbara, and Robinson, Michael H. "Live History and Behavior 
Studies of Isopoda goliath from New Guinea." In Eighth International 
Arachology Congress, Wien, West Germany (1980), pp. 261-66. 

Robinson, Michael H. "The Ecology and Behavior of Tropical Spiders." In 
Eighth International Arachnology Congress, Wien, West Germany (1980), 
pp. 13-32. 

Robinson, Michael H., and Lubin, Yael D. "Specialists and Generalists: The 
Ecology and Behavior of Some Web-building Spiders from Papua New 
Guinea. I. Herennia ornatissima, Argiope ocyaloides and Arachnura melanura 
(Araneae: Araneidae)." Pacific Insects 21 (2-3) (1979) :97-132. 

. "Specialists and Generalists: The Ecology and Behavior of Some Web- 
building Spiders from Papua New Guinea. II. Psechrus argentatus and 
Fecenia sp. (Araneae: Psechridae)." Pacific Insects 21(2-3) (1979) :133-64. 

Robinson, Michael H., and Robinson, Barbara. "Comparative Studies of the 
Courtship and Mating Behavior of Tropical Araneid Spiders." Pacific Insects 
Monograph 36(1980) :218. 

Roubik, David W. "Nest and Colony Characteristics of Stingless Bees from 
French Guiana (Hymenoptera : Apidae)." Journal of the Kansas Entomologi- 
cal Society 52(3) (1979) :443-70. 

. "Foraging Behavior of Competing Africanized Honeybees and Sting- 
less Bees." Ecology 61(4) (1980) :747-57. 

Roubik, David W., and Michener, Charles D. "The Seasonal Cycle and Nests 
of Epicharis zonata, a Bee Whose Cells are Below the Wet-season Water 
Table (Hymenoptera, Anthophoridae)." Biotropica 12(1) (1980) :56-60. 

Russell, James Knox. "Reciprocity in the Social Behavior of Coatis (Nasua 
narica)." Ph.D. thesis. University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, 1979. 

Ryan, Michael J. "Female Mate Choice in a Neotropical Frog." Science 209 

(1980) :523-25. 

Schemske, Douglas W. "Evolution of Floral Display in the Orchid Brassavola 

nodosa." Evolution 34(3) (1980) :489-93. 
Silberglied, Robert E. "Communication in the Ultraviolet." Annual Review of 

Ecology and Systematics 10(1979) :373-98. 
Silberglied, Robert E., and Aiello, Annette. "Camouflage by Intergumentary 

Wetting in Bark Bugs." Science 207(4432) (1980) :773-75. 



438 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Silberglied, Robert E.; Aiello, Annette; and Lamas, Gerardo. "Neotropical But- 
terflies of the Genus Anartia: Systematics, Life Histories, and General 
Biology (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae)." Psyche 86(2-3) (1980) :219-60. 

Silberglied, Robert E.; Aiello, Annette; and Windsor, Donald M. "Distruptive 
Coloration in Butterflies: Lack of Support in Anartia fatima." Science 209 
(1980) :617-19. 

Smith, Alan P. "The Paradox of Autotoxicity in Plants." Evolutionary Theory 
4(4) (1979) :173-80. 

Smith, Neal G. "Hawk and Vulture Migrations through the Isthmus of 
Panama." In Migrant Birds in the Neotropics: Ecology, Behavior, Distribu- 
tion and Conservation, eds. A. Keast and E. S. Morton, pp. 51-65. Washing- 
ton, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

. "Some Evolutionary, Ecological, and Behavioral Correlates of Com- 
munal Nesting by Birds with Wasps or Bees. Proceedings of the Seventeenth 
Ornithological Congress, pp. 214-34, (1980). 

Toft, Catherine A., and Levings, Sally C. "Tendencias Estacionales Relacion- 
adas con las Poblaciones de Artropodos en la Hojarasca. Atlas del IV Sym- 
posium Internacional de Ecologia Tropical, no. 3, 1980. 

Vollrath, Fritz. "Vibrations: Their Signal Function for a Spider Kleptopara- 
site." Science 205(4411) (1979) :1149-51. 

Waldner, Raymond E., and Robertson, D. Ross. "Patterns of Habitat Partition- 
ing by Eight Species of Territorial Caribbean Damselfishes (Pisces: Poma- 
centridae)." Bulletin of Marine Science 30(1980) :171-86. 

Warner, Robert R., and Hoffman, Steven G. "Local Population Size as a Deter- 
minant of Mating System and Sexual Composition in Two Tropical Marine 
Fishes (Thalassoma spp.)." Evolution 34(3) (1980) :508-18. 

Wells, Kentwood D. "Reproductive Behavior and Male Mating Success in a 
Neotropical Toad, Bufo typhonius." Biotropica 11(4)(1979) :301-7. 

. "Behavioral Ecology and Social Organization of a Dendrobatid Frog 

(Colostethus inguinalis)." Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 6(3)(1980): 
199-209. 

West-Eberhard, Mary Jane. "Sexual Selection, Social Competition, and Evolu- 
tion." Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society 123(4) (1979) :222- 
34. 

Willis, Edwin O., and Eisenmann, Eugene. "A Revised List of Birds of Barro 
Colorado Island, Panama." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 291. 
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Windsor, Donald M. "Seasonality and the Nesting Cycles of Tropical Polistine 
Wasps." Atlas del IV Symposium Internacional de Ecologia Tropical, no. 3, 
1980. 

Wolda, Henk. "Zunacetha annulata (Lep: Dioptidae), an Outbreak Insect in a 
Neotropical Forest." In Proceedings of the Third Symposium on Tropical 
Ecology, Lubumbashi, Zaire, 1979. Ceo-Eco-Trop. 2(1979) :443-54. 

. "Abundance and Diversity of Homoptera in the Canopy of a Tropical 

Forest." Journal of Ecological Entomology 4(1979) :181-90. 

"Fluctuaciones en la abundancia de insectos en el bosque tropical." 



Adas del IV Symposium Internacional de Ecologia Tropical, Panama, no. 3, 
1979, pp. 519-39. 

"Seasonality Parameters for Insect Populations." Researches on Popu- 



lation Ecology 20(1979) :247-56. 

"Fluctuaciones estacionales de insectos en el tropico: Sphingidae.' 



Memorias del VI Congreso de la Sociedad Colombiana de Entomologia, 
"Socolen," (1979) :ll-58. 

"Seasonality of Tropical Insects. I. Leafhoppers (Homoptera) in Las 



Cumbres, Panama." Journal of Animal Ecology 49(1) (1980) :277-90. 

'Fluctuaciones estacionales: Insectos es Horncitos (Fortuna, Provincia 



de Chiriqui). ConCiencia 7(1980) :8-10. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 439 



Wright, Stuart Joseph. "Competition Between Insectivorous Lizards and Birds 
in Central Panama." American Zoologist 19(1979) :1145-56. 

Wulff, Janie L., and Buss, Leo W. "Do Sponges Help Hold Coral Reefs 
Together?" Nature 281 (57 31) (1979) :474-75. 

Zucker, Naida, and Denny, Rita. "Interspecific Communication in Fiddler 
Crabs: Preliminary Report of a Female Rejection Display Directed toward 
Courting Heterospecific Males." Zeitschrift fur Tierpsychologie 50(1) (1979): 
9-17. 



HISTORY AND ART 

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART 

Karlstrom, Paul. "Report, 1976-78: Archives of American Art, Smithsonian 
Institution." In The Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, p. 69. 

. [Catalogue essay] The United States and the Impressionist Era. San 

Jose, Calif.: San Jose Museum of Art, 1979. 

McNaught, William. "Studios of 19th Century American Artists." Horizon 
23(2)(Feburary 1980). 

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM 

Dee, Elaine Evans. Idee und Anspruch der Architecktur. Cologne, Germany: 

Wallraf-Richartz Museum, 1980. 
McFadden, David Revere. "Decorative Arts at Cooper-Hewitt." Antiques 

(Winter 1979). 

. Class in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New York, 1979. 

. Furniture in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New York, 

1979. 

. [Catalogue essay] Hair. New York, 1980. 

. Tiles in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New York, 1980. 

Oliver, Richard B. The Oceanliner: Speed, Style, Symbol. New York, 1980. 
Taylor, Lisa. [Foreword] Furniture in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt 

Museum. New York, 1979. 
. [Foreword] Class in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. 

New York, 1979. 

. [Foreword] Cooper-Hewitt Benefit Auction Catalogue. New York, 1980. 

. [Foreword] Hair. New York, 1980. 

— . [Foreword] The Oceanliner: Speed, Style, Symbol. New York, 1980. 
-. [Foreword] Tiles in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New 



York, 1980. 

[Foreword] Tsuba and Japanese Sword Fittings in the Collection of the 



Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New York, 1980. 

'Notes from the Director." Cooper-Hewitt Newsletter (Fall, Winter, 



and Spring, 1980). 

FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Ars Orientalis, vol. 11. Ann Arbor, Mich.: University of Michigan, 1979. 

Chase, W. Thomas, III. "Solid Samples from Metallic Antiquities and Their 
Examination." In International Symposium on the Conservation and Resto- 
ration of Cultural Property — Cultural Property and Analytical Chemistry, 
November 27-30, Tokyo and Tsukuba, Japan, eds. Organizing Committee 
of the Symposium, pp. 73-109. Tokyo: Tokyo National Research Institute of 
Cultural Properties, 1979. 



440 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



. "The Conservation of a Plastic Mask by Marisol." Journal of the 

American Institute for Conservation, 18(1979) :82-94. 
Fu Shen. "The Hsuan-Wen Ko and The Tuan-pen T'ang — A History of the 

Yuan Imperial Art Collection, Part 3." The National Palace Museum Quar- 
terly 13(3). 
. "Mi Shu Chien — The Yuan Imperial Archives — A History of the Yuan 

Imperial Art Collection, Part 4." The National Palace Museum Quarterly 

13(4). 
Fu Shen; Murray, Julia; and Hongnam Kim. Contemporary Calligraphy and 

Painting from the Republic of China. Washington, D.C. : Consortium for 

International Cooperation in Higher Education, 1980. 
Shimizu, Yoshiaki. "Ink Painting," ed. Shujiro Shimada. In Zaigai Nihon no 

shiho (Japanese Art Treasures Abroad), vol. 3. Essays for entries 4-6, 9-11, 

15-17, 59, and 86. Tokyo: Mainichi Shinbun-sha, 1980. 
. "Sliding Doors and Screens," ed. Tsuneo Takeda. In Zaigai Nihon no 

shiho, vol. 4. [Essays for entries 40, 41, 70, 71, 90, and 91] Tokyo: Mainichi 

Shinbun-sha, 1980. 

"Literati Paintings and Other Schools," ed. Nobuo Tsuji. In Zaigai 



Nihon no shiho, vol. 6. [Essays for entries 36 and 41] Tokyo: Mainichi 
Shinbun-sha, 1980. 

-. "Muromachi Ink Paintings, ed. Eiji Akazawa. In Asahi Weekly Ency- 



clopaedia, series no. 115 [12 commentaries to illustrations] 1980. 

-. "Sesshu and Sesson," ed. Eiji Akazawa. In Asahi Weekly Encyclo- 



paedia, series no. 116 [12 commentaries to illustrations and an article "Mu- 
romachi Paintings and Their Ambience in America."] 1980. 

"Six Narrative Paintings of Yin T'o'lo: Their Symbolic Content." In 



Archives of Asian Art, 33. Cambridge, Mass.: Fogg Art Museum, Harvard 
University, 1980. 

Yonemura, Ann. "Kako Genzai Inga-kyo (Shoriji version)." In Zaigai Nihon 
no shiho (Japanese Art Treasures Abroad), vol. 22, p. 147. Tokyo: Mainichi 
Shinbun-sha, 1980. 

. "Yatader Engi Emaki." In Zaigai Nihon no shihd, vol. 22, p. 154. 

Tokyo: Mainichi Shinbun-sha, 1980. 

Zycherman, Lynda A., and Veloz, Nicolas F., Jr. "Conservation of a Monu- 
mental Outdoor Bronze Sculpture: Theodore Roosevelt by Paul Manship." 
Journal of the American Institute for Conservation 19(1980) :24-33. 



HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 

Fletcher, Valerie. "The Sun's Light: Romanticism through Post-Impression- 
ism." In The Sun. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Exposition Books, 1980. 

Fox, Howard. Fifteen National Print Exhibition. Potsdam, N.Y. : Brainerd 
Art Gallery, State University College, 1980. 

. "Grace Under Pressure: Loren Madsen's Brick Constructions." In 

Lor en Madsen. Dayton, Ohio: Wright State University, 1980. 

-. "The New Imagery." In Drawings: The Pluralist Decade, ed. Janet 



Kardon. Philadelphia, Penn.: Institute of Contemporary Art, University of 
Pennsylvania, 1980. 

-. Stacking/ Rigging/ Binding: 10 Contemporary Sculptors. Washington, 



D.C: Washington Project for the Arts, 1980. 
Gettings, Frank. "The Human Landscape: Subjective Symbolism in Oscar 

Bluemner's Painting." Journal of the Archives of American Art 19(3). 
Millard, Charles. Miro: Selected Paintings. Washington, DC: Smithsonian 

Institution Press, 1980. 
. "Chardin." Hudson Review (Spring 1980) :91-96. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 441 



. "Edgar Hilaire Germain Degas." In The Romantics to Rodin. Los An- 
geles, Calif.: Los Angeles County Museum of Art, 1980. 

"Louis Desprez." In The Romantics to Rodin. Los Angeles, Calif.: Los 



Angeles County Museum of Art, 1980. 

"Antoine-Augustin Preault." In The Romantics to Rodin. Los Angeles, 



Calif.: Los Angeles County Museum of Art, 1980. 

Rosenzweig, Phyllis. The Fifties: Aspects of Painting in New York. Washing- 
ton, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Shannon, Joe. Edwin Dickenson: Selected Landscapes. Washington, D.C. : 
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Weil, Stephen E. "The 'Moral Right' Comes to California." Art News (Decem- 
ber 1979) :88-94. 

Zilczer, Judith. Oscar Bluemner: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Car- 
den Collection. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

. "Oscar Bluemner's Expressionist Landscape Drawings." Drawing 1(4) 

(November-December 1979) :73-76. 

-. "Raymond Duchamp-Villon : Pioneer of Modern Sculpture." Philadel- 



phia Museum of Art Bulletin (Fall 1980) :l-24. 

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS 

Nathan Reingold. [In Chinese translation] "Reflections on 200 years of Sci- 
ence in the United States." Guowai Shehui Kexue (Social Sciences Abroad) 
5(1980): 16-29. 

. Introduction to The Chequered Career of Ferdinand Rudolph Hassler, 

by Florian Cajori. New York: Arno Press, 1980. 

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 

Breeskin, Adelyn D. Mary Cassatt: A Catalogue Raisonne of the Graphic 
Work. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

. Romaine Brooks (1874-1970). Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Press, 1980. 

-. William H. Johnson (1901-1970). Washington, D.C: Smithsonian In- 



stitution Press, 1980. 

Fink, Eleanor E. "Subject Access to Reproductions of American Works of Art." 
In Proceedings of the Conference on Data Bases in the Humanities and 
Social Sciences. Amsterdam: North-Holland Publishing Company, 1980. 

Foresta, Merry A. "Matulka and the Modern Movement." In Jan Matulka, 
1890-1972. Published for the National Collection of Fine Arts and the Whit- 
ney Museum of American Art. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1980. 

. George Tooker. Los Angeles, Calif.: David Tunkl Gallery, 1980. 

Flint, Janet A. Prints for the People: Selections from New Deal Graphics 
Projects. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

. "Matulka as Printmaker: A Checklist of Known Prints." In Jan Ma- 
tulka, 1890-1972. Published for the National Collection of Fine Arts and 
the Whitney Museum of American Art. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian 
Institution Press, 1980. 

Mecklenburg, Virginia M. John R. Grabach: Seventy Years an Artist. Wash- 
ington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

. Annotated checklist in Across the Nation: Fine Art for Federal 

Buildings, 1972-1979. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 
"Milton Avery, Spring Orchard." The Museologist (Spring 1980). 



. The Public As Patron. College Park, Md. : University of Maryland De- 
partment of Art, 1979. 



442 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Norelli, Martina R. Birds: Works from the 1979 Annual Exhibition of Art 
Depicting Birds. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

. "Leningrad" and "Moscow." In Europe 1980. New York: Houghton 

Mifflin, 1979. 

Rand, Harry. Introduction to Burgoyne Diller. New York and Houston: Mere- 
dith Long Contemporary, 1980. 

. "The Watercolors of Val Lewton." Arts Magazine (May 1980). 

. "Making Certain Distinctions." Art Center (Louisville) Newsletter. 

(September 1980). 

. New York School by Irving Sandler. Leonardo (Paris), (Winter 1980). 

-. "Notes on the Jackson Pollock Catalogue Raisonne, by O'Connor and 



Thaw." Leonardo (Paris), (Winter 1980). 

"Barnett Newman by Harold Rosenberg." Leonardo (Paris), (Spring 



1980). 
Taylor, Joshua C. "After the Crash: Art and the Depression." Smithsonian 

Magazine (October 1979). 
. Introduction to Across the Nation: Fine Art for Federal Buildings, 

1972-1979. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Foreword to The Drawings of Morris Louis. Washington, D.C: Smith- 



sonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Foreword to Hugo Robus (1885-1964). Washington, DC: Smithsonian 



Institution Press, 1980. 

-. Foreword to Jan Matulka, 1890-1972. Washington, DC: Smithsonian 



Institution Press, 1980. 

RENWICK GALLERY OF THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 

Herman, Lloyd E. "Irena Brynner: Jewelry Since 1953." Goldsmiths Journal. 

(October 1979). 
Vileisis. Birute A. Painting and Sculpture in the Grand Salon and Octagon 

Room. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 
Department of Social and National History 

Ahlborn, Richard, editor. "Early Saddles of Western North America." Smith- 
sonian Studies in History and Technology 39. Washington, DC: Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Collins, Herbert R. Threads of History: Americana Recorded on Cloth, 1775 
to the Present. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Fesperman, John. Organs in Mexico. [Photographs by Scott Odell] Raleigh, 
N.C.: Sunbury Press, 1980. 

Germann, Sheridan. " 'Mrs. Crawley's Couchet' Reconsidered." Early Music 
Magazine 7(1979). 

. "Monsieur Doublet and His Confreres: The Harpsichord Decurators 

in Paris." Early Music Magazine 7(1979). 

"Regional Schools of Harpsichord Decoration." American Musical 



Instrument Society Journal 4(1978). [Publication actually published Janu- 
ary 1980.] 

Hoover, Cynthia A. "The Phonograph and Museums." In The Phonograph 
and Our Musical Life, ed. H. Wiley Hitchcock, pp. 77-84. Proceedings of 
a Centennial Conference, December 7-10, 1977. Brooklyn, N.Y. : Institute for 
Studies in American Music, 1980. 

Kidwell, Claudia B. "Cutting A Fashionable Fit: Dressmakers' Drafting Sys- 
tems in the United States." Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology 
42. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

Klapthor, Margaret B. "Private Lives." Every Four Years. Smithsonian Expo- 
sition Books. New York: W. W. Norton & Company, 1979. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 443 



. "Silver Tray Presented to Dr. Benjamin Rush." Washington Antiques 

Show Catalog, 1980. 

"George Washington Silver Camp Cup." Washington Antiques Show 



Catalog, 1980. 
Kulik, Gary B. "The Beginnings of the Industrial Revolution in America, 

Pawtucket, Rhode Island, 1672-1829." Ph.D. dissertation, Brown University, 

1980. 
Murray, Anne W. "George Washington's Apparel." Antiques 118 (July 1980) : 

120-125. 
Myers, Susan H. Handcraft to Industry: Philadelphia Ceramics in the First 

Half of the Nineteenth Century. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution 

Press, 1980. 
. "Firebricks to Porcelain: Philadelphia Ceramics 1800-1850." American 

Ceramics Circle Bulletin 2:37-62. 

Department of the History of Science and Technology 

Davis, Audrey B. "Treasures of the Smithsonian." Physicians East (1980) :17- 

20. 
Davis, Audrey B., and Appel, Toby. "Bloodletting Instruments in the National 

Museum of History and Technology." Smithsonian Studies in History and 

Technology 41. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 
Finn, Bernard S. "Thermoelectricity." Advances in Electronics and Physics 

50(1980) :175-240. 
Forman, Paul. "Kausalitiit, Anschaulichkeit e Individualitat; ovvero, come i 

valori culturali prescissero il carattere e gli insegnamenti attributi alia 

meccanica quantistica." In Fisica e societa negli anni '20, pp. 15-34. Milano: 

CLUP-CLUED, 1980. 
Hindle, Brooke. "Water Supply Systems in Early America." In Technology and 

Its Impact on Society, pp. 131-41. Stockholm: Tekniska Museet, 1979. 
. "The Artisan During America's Wooden Age." In Technology in 

America, ed. Carroll W. Pursell, Jr., pp. 8-17. Washington, D.C: Voice 

of America Forum Series, 1979. 
— . David Rittenhouse. New York: Arno Press, 1980. 
-, ed. The Scientific Writings of David Rittenhouse. New York: Arno 



Press, 1980. 
Langley, Harold D., et al. [Five Chapters] In American Secretaries of the Navy, 

2 vols., ed. Paolo Coletta. Annapolis, Md.: U.S. Naval Institute Press, 1980. 
. "Respect for Civilian Authority : The Tragic Career of Captain Angus." 

The American Neptune 40(1980) :23-37. 

"A Naval Dependent in Washington, 1838-1846." Records of Colum- 



bia Historical Society 50(1980) :105-22. 

Mayr, Otto. "Die Uhr als Symbol fur Ordnung, Autoritat und Determinismus." 
In Die Welt als Uhr: Deutsche Uhren und Automaten 1550-1650, pp. 1-9. 
Munich: Bayerisches N^ationalmuseum Miinchen, 1980. 

. "Die Darstellung von Geschichte im kulturhistorischtechnischen Mu- 
seum." Bayerische Blatter fur Volkskunde 7(1980) :13-19. 

"Adam Smith und das Konzept der Regelung." In Technik-Ceschichte, 



ed. U. Troitzsch, pp. 241-68. Frankfurt, 1980. 

Mayr, Otto, and Klaus, Maurice, editors. Die Welt als Uhr: Deutsche Uhren 
und Automaten 1550-1650. Munich: Bayerisches Nationalmuseum Miin- 
chen, 1980. 

Multhauf, Robert P. "What the Chemists Found in Pandora's Box: A Brief 
History of the Chlorinated Hydrocarbons." Iowa State Journal of Research 
54(1979) :175-83. 

. "Copernicus and Bacon as Renovators of Science." In Studia Coperni- 

cana, pp. 489-499. Warsaw: 1978. 



444 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Lundeberg, Philip K. "The Emergence of Galvanic Sea Mine Warfare: Patterns 
of Interprofessional Collaboration." Commission Internationale d'Histoire 
Militaire Acta. Bucharest, Romania, 1980. 

Multhauf, Robert P. "Technology and Society: The Factor of Scale, as Illus- 
trated by the Alkali Industry." In Symposium No. 1, pp. 183-91. Stockholm: 
Tekniska Museet, 1979. 

. "The Science of Matter." In Science in the Middle Ages, ed. David C. 

Lindberg, pp. 369-90. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1979. 

Post, Robert C, editor. Every Tour Years: The American Presidency. Wash- 
ington, D.C. : Smithsonian Exposition Books, 1980. 

. Railroad History 142(Spring 1980). 

Post, Robert; Doster, Alexis, III; and Goodwin, Joe, editors. The American 
Land. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Exposition Books, 1979. 

Schlebecker, John T. "Paving the Way to the Future." Iowa Agriculturist 81 
(Fall 1979) :14-15. 

. "The Invention of Agriculture: The American Frontier Compared to 

the Neolithic Frontier." In Comparative Trontiers Symposium. Norman, 
Okla.: University of Oklahoma, 1980. 

Sharrer, George T. "Oliver Evans and the Beginning of Automated Milling 
in Maryland and the Upper South." In Waterwheels and Windmills Sympo- 
sium, pp. 11-24. Durham, N.C.: Eno River Association and Friends of West 
Point Mill, 1979. 

. "Farming in Saratoga County, 1860-1920." The Crist Mill Saratoga 

County Historical Society 14(1980) :l-6. 

"Food Technology in the 20th Century." National Agricultural Library 



Today 5(1-2) (January, June 1980) :25-32. 

Vogel, Robert M. "Quadrangular Treasure: The Cartographic Route to Indus- 
trial Archeology." The Journal of the Society for Industrial Archeology 
6(1980) :25-54. 

Warner, Deborah Jean. "Astronomers, Artisans and Longitude." In Transport 
Technology and Social Change, pp. 133-40. Stockholm: Tekniska Museet, 
1980. 

. "Astronomy in Antebellum America." In The Sciences in the Amer- 
ican Context: New Perspectives, ed. Nathan Reingold, pp. 55-75. Washing- 
ton, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

"Women Inventors at the Centennial." In Dynamos and Virgins Re- 



visited, ed. Martha M. Trescott, pp. 102-19. Metuchen, N.J., and London: 

Scarecrow Press, 1979. 
White, John H., Jr., editor. Railroad History 141 (Autumn 1979). 
. A History of the American Locomotive — Its Development: 1830-1880. 

1968. New York: Dover Publications, Inc., 1979. 

-. "Holmes Hinkley and the Boston Locomotive Works." Railroad His- 



tory 142(1980) :27-52. 

'The Cover Design Industrial Locomotives: The Forgotten Servant." 



Technology and Culture 21(1980) :209-16. 

Division of Conservation 

Odell, Scott, and Goodway, Martha. "Harpsichord Wires of the 17th and 18th 
Centuries." American Institute of Conservation of Historic and Artistic 
Works, Eighth Annual Meeting, pp. 62-71. [Preprints] Washington, D.C: 
American Institute of Conservation, 1980. 

Dwight D. Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research 

Hutchins, James S. "'Dear Hook'; Letters from Bennet Riley, Alphonso Wet- 
more, and Reuben Holmes, 1822-1833." The Bulletin of the Missouri His- 
torical Society 36(July 1980): 203-20. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 445 



. "Western Saddles Before the Cowboy." In "Man Made Mobile: Early 

Saddles of Western North America," ed. Richard E. Ahlborn, pp. 39-71. 

Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology, 39. Washington, D.C. : 

Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 
Pogue, Forest C. "George C. Marshall." In Dictionary of American Biography, 

supp. 6, pp. 428-33. New York : Scribners, 1980. 

National Numismatics Collections 

Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira. "Medaillen zum Gedachtnis an den Unabhangigkeits- 
krieg." In Friedrich Wilhelm von Steuben. Leben Zeit und Zeitgenossen, pp. 
143-156. Wiirzburg, 1980. 

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 

Lawson, Michael L. "They Weren't All Lawyers," in Every Four Years: The 
American Presidency. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Exposition Books, 
1980. 

. [Review] The loway Indians, by Martha R. Blaine, journal of Amer- 
ican History (Fall 1980). 

[Review] Tarahumara: Where Night is the Day of the Moon, by 



Bernard L. Fontana. Southwestern Historical Quarterly (Fall 1980). 

[Review] The Reclamation of Disturbed Arid Lands, ed. Robert A. 



Wright. New Mexico Historical Review (Fall 1980). 

-, contributor. Dictionary of American Biography. New York: Charles 



Scribner's Sons, 1980. 
Lawson, Michael L., and Voss, Frederick S. The Great Crash. Washington, 

D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 
Miller, Lillian B. [Review] Benjamin West: A Biography, by Robert C Alberts, 

and John Trumbull: Patriot-Artist of the American Revolution, by Irma B. 

Jaffe. The William and Mary Quarterly (October 1979). 
. [Review] New Muses: Art in American Culture, 1865-1920, by 

H. Wayne Morgan. The American Historical Review (December 1979). 

-. [Review] Eighteenth-Century Prints in Colonial America: To Educate 



and Decorate, ed. Joan D. Dolmetsch. Eighteenth-Century Studies (Spring 
1980). 

[Review] Early American Books and Pamphlets in the Field of Art and 



Architecture, American Culture Series. Microform Review (Spring 1980). 

[Review] Mr. Peale's Museum: Charles Willson Peale and the First 



Popular Museum of Natural Science and Art, by Charles Coleman Sellers. 

Smithsonian (September 1980). 
Pachter, Marc. "A Banner Year for Biography," The Washington Post Book 

World (December 8, 1979). 
. [Review] Slave and Citizen: The Life of Frederick Douglass, by Nathan 

I. Huggins. The Washington Post Book World (March 30, 1980). 

[Review] Come to Judgment, by Alden Whitman. Washington Journal- 



ism Review (July/August 1980). 
Pfister, Harold Francis, and Sadik, Marvin S. American Portrait Drawings. 

Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 
Sadik, Marvin S. "Portraying the Presidents." In Every Four Years: The 

American Presidency. Washington: Smithsonian Exposition Books, 1980. 
. [Foreword] Robert Edge Pine, A British Portrait Painter in America, 

1784-1788. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 
Sadik, Marvin S., and Pfister, Harold Francis. American Portrait Drawings. 

Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 
Stewart, Robert G. Robert Edge Pine, A British Portrait Painter in America, 

1784-1788. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 



446 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Voss, Frederick S. "Also Rans." In Every Four Years: The American Presi- 
dency. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Exposition Books, 1980. 

Voss, Frederick 5., and Lawson, Michael L. The Great Crash. Washington, 
D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979. 

OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES 

Washburn, Wilcomb E. "On the Relationship Between Popular Culture and 
American Studies." In Directions and Dimensions in American Culture 
Studies in the 1980s, eds. B. Browne and R. H. Wolfe, pp. 31-36. Bowling 
Green, Ohio: Bowling Green University Popular Press, 1979. 

. "Beyond the Horizons." In The American Land, pp. 28—35. Smithsonian 

Exposition Books. New York: W. W. Norton, 1979. 

-. "Symbols and Images." In Every Four Years, pp. 172-85. Smithsonian 



Exposition Books. New York: W. W. Norton, 1980. 

-. "Who's the Minority in the District?." [Op-ed article] The Washing- 



ton Post (August 5, 1980). 

'Of Indians and Anthropologists: A Response to Karl Schlesier.' 



American Anthropologist 82(3) (September 1980) :558-89. 

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS 

Kalcik, Susan, and Manos, Sue, editors. A Booklet of Hmong, Khmer, and Lao 
Cooking. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution, 1980. 

Seitel, Peter. See That We May See. Bloomington, Ind. : Indiana University 
Press, 1980. 

Vennum, Thomas, Jr. "A History of Ojibwa Song Form." In Selected Reports 
in Ethnomusicology, vol. 3, no. 2, ed. Charlotte Heth. Los Angeles, Calif.: 
UCLA Press, 1980. 

. "Frances Densmore." In Notable American Women: The Modern 

Period, ed. Barbara Sickerman et al. Cambridge, Mass.: Belnap Press of 
Harvard University, 1980. 

Zeitlin, Steven J. "An Alchemy of Mind: The Family Courtship Story." West- 
ern Folklore 39(1) (January 1980). 



MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY 

Odell, S., and Goodway, M. "Harpsichord Wires of the 17th and 18th Cen- 
turies." In American Institute of Conservation of Historic and Artistic 
Works, Eighth Annual Meeting, San Francisco, May 22-25, 1980, pp. 62-71. 
[Preprints] Washington, D.C: American Institute of Conservation, 1980. 

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

Hanson, James A. The Frontier and Buffalo Hunter's Sketch Book. Chadron, 

Nebraska: The Fur Press, 1980. 
. "James Bridger, et al., Boat Builders; The Skin Canoes of the Great 

Plains and Rockies." Museum of the Fur Trade Quarterly 16(1) (1980) :l-7. 
-. "The Reappearing Vanishing American." Museum News 59(2) (1980). 



Kingsley, Brandt. Children in Museums: A Bibliography. Washington, D.C. 

Smithsonian Institution, 1980. 
Wolf, Robert L. "A Naturalistic View of Evaluation." Museum News 58(6) 

(1981). 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 447 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES 

Lytle, Richard H. "Intellectual Access to Archives: I. Provenance and Content 
Indexing Methods of Subject Retrieval." The American Archivist 43(1980): 
64-75. 

. "Intellectual Access to Archives: II. Report of an Experiment Com- 
paring Provenance and Content Indexing Methods of Subject Retrieval." 
The American Archivist 43(1980) :191-207. 

"A National Information System for Archives and Manuscript Col- 



lections." The American Archivist 43(1980) :423-26. 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 

Goodwin, Jack S. "Current Bibliography in the History of Technology (1978)." 
Technology and Culture 21(1980) :281-355. 

Gray, Mary Clare. Union List of Journal Titles in American Association 
of Zoological Parks and Aquariums (AAZPA) Libraries. Wheeling, W.Va.: 
AAZPA, 1979. 

Pisano, Dominick A. "Forty Years of Jet Aviation: A Selective Bibliography 
and Research Guide." In The Jet Age: Forty Years of Jet Aviation, eds. 
Walter J. Boyne and Donald S. Lopez, pp. 185-90. Washington, D.C.: Na- 
tional Air and Space Museum, 1979. 

Hyltoft, Johannes. "Thoughts About Book Conservation." The American In- 
stitute for Conservation — Preprints (October 1979) : 50—58. 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE 

EXHIBITION CATALOGUES 

Baer, Winfried. Berlin Porcelain. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1980. 

Dockstader, Frederick; Stewart, Tyrone; and Wright, Barton. The Year of the 
Hopi. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Serv- 
ice, 1979. 

Hills, Patricia, and Gerdts, Abigail Booth. The Working American. Washing- 
ton, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1979. 

Jordan, Wendy Adler. By the Light of the Qulliq. Washington, DC: Smith- 
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1979. 

Mazonowicz, Douglas. On the Rocks: The Story of Prehistoric Art. Washing- 
ton, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Preaud, Tamara. Sevres Porcelain. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1980. 

Pylkkanen, Riitta, and Anna-Lisa Amberg. Ryijy Rugs from Finland: 200 
Years of a Textile Art. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Traveling 
Exhibition Service, 1979. 

Stevens, Andrea, editor. Update, 1979-80. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian In- 
stitution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1979. 

Wortman, Jeffrey. Jacob Jordaens: A Baroque Master. Washington, D.C: 
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1979. 

BOOKLETS 

Image of the Black in Western Art. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution 

Press, 1980. 
Harris, Elizabeth. Cut On Wood. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution 

Press, 1979. 



448 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



KITS 

Ehrlich, Hedy. Butterflies Colorwise. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Traveling Exhibition Service, 1980. 

Robinson, Judith Helm, with Eig, Emily Hotaling. Carpenter's Lace. Washing- 
ton, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1980. 

POSTERS 

Albert Einstein Photographed by Lotte Jacobi. 

And Now A Message — A Century of American Advertising, 1830-1930. 

The Farallon Islands: A Conservation Success Story. 

Impressions/Expressions: Black American Graphics. 

Jupiter and Its Moons. 

Portraits and Dreams: Photographs by Appalachian Children. 

PUBLIC SERVICE 

DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS 

Morris, James R. [Program notes and narrative script] American Musical 
Theater presentation, Play a Simple Melody: American Musical Theater — 
1900-1920, October 5-7, 1979. 

. "Modern Music: Why Bother?" Notes on the Arts (November/Decem- 
ber 1979). 

. "Voices Reunited." Notes on the Arts (January/ February 1980). 

. "Shall We Dance?" Notes on the Arts (March/ April 1980). 

. "Mystical Moments." Notes on the Arts (May/June 1980). 

— . "Literacy in the Arts." Notes on the Arts (July/August 1980). 

"A Critical Quandry." Notes on the Arts (September/October 1980). 



Reagon, Bernice Johnson. "Rubye Doris Smith Robinson." In Notable Amer- 
ican Women, The Modern Period, eds. Barbara Sicherman and Carol Hurd 
Green. Cambridge, Mass.: Belknap Press, 1980. 

. Voices of the Civil Rights Movement: Black American Freedom Songs, 

1960-66. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution, 1980. 

-. "The Borning Struggle." New Directions, The Howard University Mag- 



azine (April 1980). 

Williams, Martin. Crijfith: First Artist of the Movies. England: Oxford Uni- 
versity Press, 1980. 

. "Jazz, the Phonograph, and Scholarship." In The Phonograph and Our 

Musical Life, ed. H. Wiley Hitchcock. Institute for Studies in American Mu- 
sic Monographs, 1980. 

RECORDS 

Duke Ellington: An Explosion of Genius, 1938-1940. 
George and Ira Gershwin's Funny Face. 
Henry "Red" Allen & Coleman Hawkins, 1933. 
Music of Fats Waller & James P. Johnson. 
The Band Wagon. 

The Legendary Freddie Keppard, New Orleans Cornet. 

Voices of the Civil Rights Movement: Black American Freedom Songs, 1960- 
1966. 

OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION 

Art to Zoo [Newsletter]. Published four times during the year. 
Let's Go to the Smithsonian: A Bulletin for Schools. Published five times dur- 
ing the year. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 449 



OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS 

Let's Go to the Smithsonian: Learning Opportunities for Schools, 1980-81. 
Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. 

Dillon, Wilton 5. "Margaret Mead and Government." American Anthropolo- 
gist (June 1980). 

OFFICE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

VIDEO TAPE RECORDINGS 

Urban Open Spaces, 15-minute exhibition tape for the Cooper-Hewitt hearing- 
impaired training program. 

FILMS 

A Sense of Discovery, The National Collection of Fine Arts, Washington, D.C. 
Dragon of the Trees: The Green Iguana. 

RADIO PRODUCTIONS 

Radio Smithsonian, 52 half-hour programs. 
Smithsonian Galaxy, 104 2y2-minute features. 

SMITHSONIAN EXPOSITION BOOKS 

The American Land. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution, 1979. 
Every Four Years: The American Presidency. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian 
Institution, 1980. 



MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT 

RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM 

The Smithsonian Associate. Janet W. Solinger, Publisher/Executive Editor, and 

Helen A. Marvel, Editor. 
Arkin, Diane Lynn. "Leonore Malen's Garden of Light." Arts 54(7) (March 

1980) :170-71. 
Solinger, Janet W. "Building Museum Membership." In Handbook of Museum 

Public Relations. International Council of Museums, 1980. 
. "Consortia." In Handbook of Museum Public Relations. International 

Council of Museums, 1980. 

Introduction A.R.E.A. in Washington, D.C. Artists Representing En- 



vironmental Arts, Inc. U.S. Office of Personnel Management. 



NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

Backlund, Caroline H. [Review] Edvard Munch. The Man and His Art, by 
Ragna Stang. ARLIS/NA Newsletter (May 1980). 

. Index, 1978-1979, to Smithsonian 9. 

Bohlin, Diane DeGrazia, editor. Illustrated Bartsch: Italian Masters of the Six- 
teenth Century (the Carracci, Passarotti, Procaccini, and Tibaldi), 39. New 
York: Abaris Books, 1980. 

. [Review] The Roman Sketchbook of Girolamo da Carpi, by Norman 

W. Canedy. Renaissance Quarterly 32(3) (Autumn 1979) :391-93. 

Bowen, Robert L., Jr. [Review] The Post-Impressionists, by Richard Shore. Gan- 
nett News Service. 

Brown, David Alan. "Comments." In Florence and Venice: Comparisons and 



450 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Relations, Acts of Two Conferences at Villa I Tatti in 1976-1977, vol. II, 
Florence, 1980, pp. 359-60. 

'A Drawing by Zanetti after a Fresco on the Fondaco dei Tedeschi. 



Tiziano e Venezia, Convegno Internazionale di Studi, Venice, 1980, pp. 

513-22. 
Clark, H. Nichols B. "Charles Lang Freer: An American Aesthete in the 

Gilded Era." The American Art Journal ll(October 1979):54-68. 
Edelstein, J. M. [Foreword] Modern Book Collecting, by Robert A. Wilson. 

New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1980. 
. "The Bibliographical Society of America, 1904-1979." The Papers of 

the BSA 73(4) (1979) :389-422. 

-. [Reviews] Form and Content and Assault on the Book, by Abe Lerner. 



Fine Print 6(3) (July 1980) :98. 

Fletcher, Shelley, and Walsh, Judith. "The Treatment of Three Prints by 
Whistler on Fine Japanese Tissue." Journal of the American Institute for 
Conservation 19(1979) :119-26. 

Hand, John. "The Portrait of Sir Brian Tuke by Hans Holbein the Younger." 
Studies in the History of Art, National Gallery of Art 9(1980) :33-49. 

Lewis, Douglas. The Late Baroque Churches of Venice. New York and London: 
Garland Publishing, 1979. 

Newmark, Carolyn Wilson. [Introduction and exhibition checklist] European 
Terra Cottas from the Arthur M. Sackler Collections. Washington, D.C.: 
National Gallery of Art, 1979. 

Walsh, Judith, and Fletcher, Shelley. "The Treatment of Three Prints by Whis- 
tler on Fine Japanese Tissue." Journal of the American Institute for Conser- 
vation 19(1979) :119-26. 

Wheelock, Arthur K., Jr. "De restauratie van 'De Molen/ " De Kroniek van 
het Rembrandthuis 31(1979) :9-13. 

. [Review] All the Paintings of the Rijksmuseum, by Pieter van Thiel 

et al. The Art Bulletin 62(1980) :492-93. 

Williams, William J. Old Master Paintings from the Collection of Baron 
Thyssen-Bornemisza. Hartford, Conn.: United Technologies Corporation, 
1979. 

Wilmerding, John. [Introduction] American Paintings: An Illustrated Cata- 
logue. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1980. 

, contributor. American Light: The Luminist Movement, 1850-1875. 

Washington, D.C : National Gallery of Art, and New York: Harper & Row, 
1980. 

"American Light: The Luminist Movement, 1850-1875, an Exhibition 



at the National Gallery of Art." The Magazine Antiques 117(4) (April 1980): 
847-54. 

"Winslow Homer's Right and Left." Studies in the History of Art, 



National Gallery of Art 9(1980) :59-85. 

-. [Reviews] The Life and Work of Winslow Homer, by Gordon Hen- 



dricks, and Winslow Homer's Magazine Engravings, by Philip C. Beam. 
Smithsonian 10(10) (January 1980) :126-28. 

[Review] Mr. Peale's Museum: Charles Willson Peale and the First 



Popular Museum of Natural Science and Art, by Charles Coleman Sellers. 
The Magazine Antiques 118(2)(August 1980) :296-98. 

[Review] The Thomas Eakins Collection, by Theodor Siegl. Pennsyl- 



vania Magazine of History and Biography 104(2) (July 1980) :402-3. 

Wilmerding, John, and Corn, Wanda. "The United States." In Post-Impres- 
sionism, Cr oss-Currents in European and American Painting, 1880-1906, pp. 
219-240. Washington, D.C: National Gallery of Art, 1980. 

With, Christopher B. "Adolph von Menzel and the German Revolution of 
1848." Zeitschrift fur Kunstgeschichte 42(2/3) (1979) :195-214. 



Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff I 451 



READING IS FUNDAMENTAL 

RIF Bulletin. A quarterly publication for volunteers. 

RIF Newsletter. A quarterly publication, reporting on RIF activities nation- 
wide. The Newsletter is distributed to the public as well as to RIF projects. 
It reaches more than 20,000 readers. 

A Book In Every Hand. A pamphlet that describes RIF activities around the 
country. 

Will Your Community's Youngsters Grow Up Reading? A brochure that ex- 
plains how to apply to start a RIF project. It is printed in English and 
Spanish. 

RIF's Painless Guide To Ordering Books and Making Payments. An instruc- 
tion manual for project leaders. For projects that have trouble ordering 
books, RIF also has a problem-solving brochure. 

Resource Manual. An aid for volunteers organizing their first RIF project. 

Read, Read, Read. A film on RIF that projects use to involve their communities. 

Profiles. Descriptions of the nearly 300 publishers and distributors who work 
with RIF. The profiles list special discounts and services RIF has negotiated 
for the projects. 

For the Migrant Youngster, Books Are Friends in Strange Places. A brochure 
explaining the special help RIF offers projects serving the children of mi- 
grant and seasonal farmworkers. It is printed in English and Spanish. 

SMITHSONIAN SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE, INC. 

Hersey, David F. [Introduction] "Research in Progress Information Systems. 
In Proceedings of International Symposium on Animal Health and Disease 
Data Banks, December 4-6, 1978, Washington, D.C.; Section 4, pp. 169-73. 
Miscellaneous Publication No. 1381. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government 
Printing Office, 1979. 

. "R&D Information: Implications for the Growth of Science and Tech- 
nology in the United States." UNESCO Journal of Information Science, Li- 
brarianship & Archives Administration 2(2) (1980) :89-96. 



452 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



APPENDIX 6. Academic and Research Training Appointments 
in Fiscal Year 1980 



The Smithsonian offers, through the Office of Fellowships and Grants, research 
and study appointments to visiting scientists, scholars, and students. These 
appointees are provided access to the Institution's facilities, staff specialties, 
and reference resources. The persons listed in this appendix began their resi- 
dencies between May 1, 1979, and September 30, 1980. Predoctoral Fellows are 
designated as Ph.D. candidates, and those names marked with an asterisk 
indicate Visiting Research students. Postdoctoral Fellows, senior scholars, and 
visiting scientists and interns are listed as such. 



PROGRAM IN AMERICAN AND CULTURAL HISTORY 

William F. Brooks, Ph.D., University of Illinois. Instrumental practice in mid- 
19th century American shows, with Mrs. Cynthia A. Hoover, Department of 
Cultural History, National Museum of History and Technology, from Novem- 
ber 15, 1979, through January 15, 1981. 

William B. Burr, Ph.D. candidate, Northern Illinois University. Building 
strength at the center; the political economy of the Marshall Plan, 1947-1950, 
with Dr. Forrest C. Pogue, Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research, Na- 
tional Museum of History and Technology, from September 1, 1980, through 
August 31, 1981. 

Reginald D. Butler, Ph.D. candidate, Johns Hopkins University. National Mu- 
seum of History and Technology Fellowship. The Negro baseball leagues, 
1865-1947; the significance of sport in Afro-American culture and A study of 
Landon Carter and the plantation world of 18th century Virginia, with Mr. 
Gary Kulik, Department of History of Technology, and Mr. Carl H. Scheele, 
Department of Cultural History, National Museum of History and Technology, 
from May 1, 1980, through April 30, 1981. 

Douglas Daniels, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Black secular music 
and American popular culture in the 20th century, with Dr. Roger G. Kennedy, 
Director, National Museum of History and Technology, from September 1, 
1980, through August 31, 1981. 

David H. Glassberg, Ph.D., Johns Hopkins University. American civic pag- 
eantry and the image of the community, 1900-1930, with Mr. Carl Scheele, 
Department of Cultural History, National Museum of History and Technology, 
from August 1, 1979, through July 31, 1980. 

Susan Hanson, Ph.D., University of Maryland. Home Sweet Home; domestic 
views of rural America, 1865-1920, with Mrs. Anne C. Golovin, Department 
of Cultural History, National Museum of History and Technology, from Sep- 
tember 1, 1980, through August 31, 1981. 

Ann L. Henderson, Ph.D. candidate, George Washington University. Adelaide 
Johnson, American sculptress, with Ms. Edith P. Mayo, Department of Na- 
tional History, and Dr. Ellen G. Miles, National Portrait Gallery, from June 1, 
1979, through August 31, 1980. 

Brian J. Horrigan, Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Berkeley. The 
Better Homes movement of the 1920s; the single family home and American 



Appendix 6. Academic Appointments I 453 



society, with Mr. Marc Pachter, National Portrait Gallery, and Dr. Terry 
Sharrer, Department of History of Technology, National Museum of History 
and Technology, from September 1, 1980, through June 30, 1981. 
Deborah G. Jenkins,* M.A. candidate, Georgia Southern College. Study of the 
political and social effects of the Smithsonian African Expedition led by Col. 
Theodore Roosevelt, with Mr. William Deiss, Smithsonian Archives, from 
June 9, 1980, through August 15, 1980. 

Elise K. Kirk, Ph.D., Catholic University of America. A history of music in the 
White House, 1800 to the present, with Mrs. Margaret B. Klapthor, Depart- 
ment of National History, and Mrs. Cynthia A. Hoover, Department of Cul- 
tural History, from June 1, 1979, through August 31, 1979, and June 16, 1980, 
through July 31, 1980. 

Constance Myers, Ph.D., University of South Carolina. Lobby for equality; 
Anita Pollitzer and the National Woman's Party, 1920 to 1960, with Ms. Edith 
Mayo, Department of National History, National Museum of History and 
Technology, from August 1, 1980, through January 31, 1981. 
Barry O'Connell, Ph.D., Harvard University. Coal miners in the life of the 
nation, 1930-1950, with Mr. Ralph Rinzler, Folklife Program, Office of Amer- 
ican Studies, from August 1, 1979, through July 31, 1980. 

Beverly Orlove, Ph.D. candidate, University of Michigan. Civic celebration in 
America, the early Republic, with Dr. Lillian Miller, Charles Willson Peale 
Papers, National Portrait Gallery, from September 15, 1980, through March 
14, 1981. 

Katherine Preston,* M. Music candidate, University of Maryland. John 
Prosperi, Washington musician, 1877-1900, with Mrs. Cynthia Hoover, Depart- 
ment of Cultural History, National Museum of History and Technology, from 
September 15, 1980, through November 21, 1980. 

Robert Winans, Ph.D., New York University. A demographic study of the 
historical and geographical distribution of banjo playing and banjo-playing 
styles, with Mr. Ralph Rinzler, Folklife Program, Office of American Studies, 
from September 1, 1980, through August 31, 1981. 



PROGRAM IN ANTHROPOLOGY 

Kathleen Bragdon,* Ph.D. candidate, Brown University. The later history of 
the native peoples of southern New England, 1675-1869, with Dr. R. H. Ives 
Goddard, Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, 
from May 19, 1980, through July 25, 1980. 

Andrew Fuchs, Ph.D., University of Pennsylvania. Strontium/ calcium ratios in 
paleodietary research, with Dr. Donald J. Ortner and Dr. D. W. Von Endt, 
Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, from 
September 1, 1980, through August 31, 1981. 

R. Christopher Goodwin, Ph.D., Arizona State University. Cultural ecology 
and ceramic attributes; an analysis of archeological remains from the Carib- 
bean area, with Dr. Clifford Evans, Jr., Department of Anthropology, Na- 
tional Museum of Natural History, from December 1, 1979, through November 
30, 1980. 

Sonia E. Guillen,* Ph.D. candidate, University of Michigan. Biological relation- 
ship and adaptation in pre-Hispanic coastal Peru; a study based on Hrdlicka's 
osteological collection at the Smithsonian, with Dr. Douglas Ubelaker, Depart- 
ment of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, from September 
1, 1980, through November 7, 1980. 

Gary A. Haynes, Ph.D. candidate, Catholic University of America. Experi- 
mental and empirical studies of bone modification, with Dr. Dennis J. Stanford, 
Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, from 
October 1, 1979, through December 15, 1980. 



454 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



John A. Hotopp, Ph.D., University of Iowa. Archeology of lower Cheyenne 
River sites (39ST1), with Dr. Waldo Wedel, Department of Anthropology, 
National Museum of Natural History, from September 1, 1980, through August 
31, 1981. 

Lilia M. Cheuiche Machado, Ph.D. candidate, University of Sao Paulo, Brazil. 
Interpretation of physical anthropological remains and use of quantitative 
method of ceramic analysis, with Dr. Clifford Evans, Jr., Dr. Betty J. Meggers, 
and Dr. Douglas H. Ubelaker, Department of Anthropology, National Museum 
of Natural History, from September 1, 1978, through August 31, 1980. 
Sally McLendon, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. A contextualized 
study of Pomoan baskets in Smithsonian collections, with Dr. William C. 
Sturtevant, Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural His- 
tory, from September 1, 1980, through February 28, 1981. 

Robert H. Sayers, Ph.D., University of Arizona. An analysis of Pueblo Indian 
textiles in the Smithsonian, with Dr. William C. Sturtevant, Department of 
Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, from October 1, 1979, 
through September 30, 1980. 

Douglas G. Sutton, Ph.D., University of Otago, New Zealand. Cultural adapta- 
tion in the subsistence economics of pre- and prohistoric coastal hunters in 
Labrador, with Dr. William W. Fitzhugh, Department of Anthropology, Na- 
tional Museum of Natural History, from February 1, 1980, through April 30, 
1981. 

Charles J. Utermohle, Ph.D. candidate, Arizona State University. Cranial 
variation and phenetic distances; an appraisal from Birnirk and Thule period 
Eskimo crania, with Dr. Donald J. Ortner, Department of Anthropology, Na- 
tional Museum of Natural History, from December 1, 1979, through December 
31, 1980. 

Kenneth Whistler, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Complication of a 
dictionary of Alsea, an extinct Native American language of the Oregon coast, 
with Dr. R. H. Ives Goddard, Department of Anthropology, National Museum 
of Natural History, from September 1, 1980, through August 31, 1981. 



PROGRAM IN ASTROPHYSICS 

Mitchell A. Berger, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Studies in astro- 
physics, with Dr. George B. Field, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, 
from September 1, 1980, through May 31, 1981. 

Ann M. Boesgaard, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Visiting Re- 
search Scientist. Stellar spectroscopy with interests in mass loss, light abun- 
dance, and chromospheres and coronae, with Dr. George B. Field, Smithsonian 
Astrophysical Observatory, from August 15, 1980, through February 15, 1981. 
Jay A. Bookbinder, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Problems in extra- 
galactic astronomy, with Dr. A. G. W. Cameron, Smithsonian Astrophysical 
Observatory, from September 1, 1980, through May 31, 1981. 
Haldan N. Cohn, Ph.D., Princeton University. Astrophysical research primarily 
centered on stellar systems, with Dr. Alexander Dalgarno, Smithsonian Astro- 
physical Observatory, from January 1, 1980, through December 31, 1980. 
Brian J. Connor, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Extensive work in 
astronomy, physics, and applied mathematics, with Dr. David Latham, Smith- 
sonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1979, through May 31, 
1981. 

Mark S. Giampapa, Ph.D., University of Arizona. Investigation of the origin, 
structure, and evolution of stellar chromospheres, with Dr. Robert Noyes, 
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 15, 1980, through 
September 14, 1981. 



Appendix 6. Academic Appointments I 455 



Stephen M. Kahn, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Further study of 
erratic variability in black hole candidate X-ray sources, Cygnus X-l, Circinus 
X-l, and CX339-4, with Dr. Riccardo Giacconi, Smithsonian Astrophysical 
Observatory, from September 1, 1980, through August 31, 1981. 
Stephen M. Kent, Ph.D., California Institute of Technology. Studies in optical 
and infrared astronomy, with Dr. Herb Gursky, Smithsonian Astrophysical 
Observatory, from December 1, 1979, through August 31, 1981. 
Randall Knight, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. The physics and 
chemistry of interstellar molecules, with Dr. William H. Parkinson, Smith- 
sonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1980, through August 
31, 1981. 

Richard London, Ph.D., University of Colorado. Studies in theoretical and high 
energy physics, with Dr. Alexander Dalgarno, Smithsonian Astrophysical Ob- 
servatory, from October 1, 1979, through September 30, 1981. 
Phyllis M. Lugger, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Dependence of the 
properties of bright cluster galaxies on cluster type, with Dr. William Liller, 
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1979, through 
May 31, 1981. 

Herman Marshall, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Research in X-ray 
astronomy, with Dr. Jonathan Grindlay, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa- 
tory from September 1, 1979, through August 31, 1980. 

Stephen McMillan, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Research in astro- 
physics, with Dr. Alan Lightman, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, 
from June 1, 1980, through August 31, 1980. 

Takashi Sakurai, Ph.D., University of Tokyo, Japan. Langley-Abbott Fellow. 
Research on problems related to magnetic fields in the solar corona, with Dr. 
Robert Noyes, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 
1980, through August 31, 1981. 



PROGRAM IN CONSERVATION 

Ira Block, Ph.D., University of Maryland. Effect of an alkaline rinse on the 
aging of cellulosic textile materials, with Mr. Robert Organ, Conservation 
Analytical Laboratory, from August 15, 1980, through August 14, 1981. 



PROGRAM IN EARTH SCIENCES 

Leo Barnard,* Ph.D. candidate, Texas A and M University. Accumulation of 
manganese micronodules and associated trace minerals, with Dr. Jack W. 
Pierce, Department of Paleobiology, National Museum of Natural History, 
from May 12, 1980, through July 18, 1980. 

Christian Blanpied, University of Paris. Western Mediterranean sedimentation 
on slopes and transport of fine-grained sediments by mass gravity versus cur- 
rent transport mechanisms, with Dr. Daniel Stanley, Department of Mineral 
Sciences, National Museum of Natural History, from September 1, 1979, 
through August 31, 1980. 

Amina H. M. Hamdan, Ph.D. candidate, Ain-Shams University, Egypt. A study 
of the geology and geomorphology of selected features on some of the ter- 
restrial planets and their moons, with Dr. Farouk El-Baz, Department of 
Science and Technology, National Air and Space Museum, from December 1, 
1979, through November 30, 1980. 

Janet Ann Zilczer, Ph.D. candidate, George Washington University. Domain 
structures in partially ordered natural potassium feldspars, with Dr. Daniel 
Appleman, Department of Mineral Sciences, National Museum of Natural 
History, from September 1, 1979, through February 28, 1981. 



456 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



PROGRAM IN ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES 

Yosef Ben-Tal, Ph.D., Michigan State University. Involvement of plant hor- 
mones in flower differentiation, with Dr. Charles F. Cleland, Radiation Biology 
Laboratory, from August 20, 1980, through August 19, 1981. 
Claire Buchanan, Ph.D., University of New Hampshire. Action spectra of the 
phototactic and photokinetic responses of Daphnia, with Dr. Bernard Goldberg 
and Dr. William Klein, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from November 1, 1978, 
through October 31. 1980. 

Robert D. Burke, Ph.D., University of Alberta. Echinoid metamorphosis; 
resorption and transformation of larval structures, with Dr. Mary Rice, Fort 
Pierce Bureau, from September 1, 1979, through August 31, 1980. 
Susan W. Cowper, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. Succession in reef 
lagoons, hypothesis testing in the Smithsonian microcosm, with Dr. Walter H. 
Adey, Department of Paleobiology, National Museum of Natural History, 
from May 15, 1980, through April 14, 1981. 

Carolyn M. Crockett, Ph.D., University of Washington. International Environ- 
mental Sciences Program — IESP Venezuelan Project. Socio-ecology of Vene- 
zuelan red howler monkeys, with Dr. John F. Eisenberg, National Zoological 
Park, from February 1, 1980, through January 1, 1981. 

Susan M. Daniels, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. The application of 
Cibacron blue F3CA in the purification of phytochrome from dark-grown and 
green plants, with Dr. William O. Smith, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from 
July 15, 1980, through June 4, 1981. 

Malcolm Erskian, Ph.D., University of California, Davis. Foraminiferan spatial 
patterns in shallow water and abyssal environments, with Dr. Martin A. Buzas, 
Department of Paleobiology, National Museum of Natural History, from June 
1, 1980, through November 30, 1980. 

Jan R. Factor, Ph.D., Cornell University. Studies on the larval development, 
histology, and ultrastructure of the lobster, Nephropsis aculeata, with Dr. 
Robert H. Gore and Dr. Mary E. Rice, Smithsonian Fort Pierce Bureau, from 
October 1, 1979, through September 30, 1980. 

John Robert Giurgevich, Ph.D., University of Georgia. Dynamics of selected 
components of the below-ground biomass of a tidal marsh on the Rhode River, 
with Dr. Bert Drake, Radiation Biology Laboratory and Chesapeake Bay Center 
for Environmental Studies, from October 1, 1979, through September 30, 1980. 
Judith L. Hand, Ph.D., University of California, Los Angeles. The vocal reper- 
toire of Larus novahollandiae, with Dr. Eugene Morton, National Zoological 
Park, from September 1, 1979, through August 31, 1980. 

Rita Khanna, Ph.D., University of Illinois. Mechanism of excitation energy 
migration in phycobilisom.es, with Dr. Elisabeth Gantt, Radiation Biology 
Laboratory, from January 1, 1980, through June 30, 1981. 

Roland J. Limpert, Ph.D., Johns Hopkins University. Chesapeake Bay Center 
for Environmental Studies Visiting Scientist. Analyzing data representing his- 
tory of the use of a wintering area, Rhode River, by waterfowl, with Dr. 
James Lynch, Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, from May 1, 
1980, through October 31, 1980. 

Hemanta Mishra, Ph.D. candidate, University of Edinburgh, Scotland. Inter- 
national Environmental Sciences Program — IESP Tiger Project. Population dis- 
tribution and behavior of chital in the Royal Chitwan National Park with 
reference to tiger population and distribution, with Dr. Theodore Reed and 
Dr. Christen Wemmer, National Zoological Park, from February 1, 1979, 
through August 31, 1981. 

Marjorie Mooney,* M.S. candidate, University of Maryland. Effect of light 
intensity on the light harvesting pigments of a blue-green alga, with Dr. Elisa- 
beth Gantt, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from June 2, 1980, through Au- 
gust 8, 1980. 



Appendix 6. Academic Appointments I 457 



Frank Oldficld, Ph.D., University of Leicester, England. Chesapeake Bay Center 
for Environmental Studies Visiting Scientist. Research on Rhode River and 
Chesapeake Bay sediments, with Dr. David Correll, Chesapeake Bay Center 
for Environmental Studies, and Dr. Jack Pierce, Department of Paleobiology, 
National Museum of Natural History, from June 25, 1980, through July 21, 1980. 
Thane K. Pratt, Ph.D. candidate, Rutgers University. International Environ- 
mental Sciences Program. Seed dispersal systems in New Guinea rainforests, 
with Dr. Michael Robinson, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from 
August 1, 1979, through July 31, 1980. 

Thomas Redlinger, Ph.D., University of Arizona. An investigation into the 
molecular mechanism governing phycobilisome attachment to photosynthetic 
membranes in red alga, with Dr. Elisabeth Gantt, Radiation Biology Laboratory, 
from November 1, 1979, through October 31, 1981. 

James K. Russell, Ph.D., University of North Carolina. Scent mark communica- 
tion in golden lion tamarins, with Dr. Devra Kleiman, National Zoological 
Park, from September 1, 1980, through August 31, 1981. 

Ranka Sekulic, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. International En- 
vironmental Sciences Program — IESP Venezuelan Project. Long-distance com- 
munication of howler monkeys, with Dr. John F. Eisenberg, National Zoological 
Park, from October 1, 1979, through September 30, 1980. 

J. L. David Smith, Ph.D. candidate, University of Minnesota. International En- 
vironmental Sciences Program — IESP Tiger Project. Tiger dispersal in Chitwan 
National Park, Nepal, in relation to other aspects of social organization, with 
Dr. Christen Wemmer, National Zoological Park, from February 1, 1979, 
through September 30, 1980. 

Bruce Whitaker, Ph.D., Michigan State University. Riboflavin analog incorpora- 
tion into the photoreceptor of flavin auxotrophs of Phycomyces, with Dr. 
Walter Shropshire, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from October 1, 1979, 
through December 31, 1980. 

W. Christopher Wozencraft,* Ph.D. candidate, University of Kansas. The dis- 
tinctions between the mongooses (Herpestidae) and the civets (Viverridae) and 
their relationships to other carnivoran families, with Dr. Christen Wemmer, 
National Zoological Park, from June 2, 1980, through August 8, 1980. 



PROGRAM IN EVOLUTIONARY AND SYSTEMATIC BIOLOGY 

Raymond T. Bauer, Ph.D., Scripps Institution of Oceanography. A systematic 
study of the North Pacific shrimp fauna based on the Albatross collections, 
with Dr. Raymond B. Manning, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, National 
Museum of Natural History, from August 1, 1980, through July 31, 1981. 
Hilconida Calumpong, M.S. candidate, Silliman University, Philippines. Educa- 
tional Outreach Program. Training in algae systematics and marine inverte- 
brate systematics from Central Visayas, with Dr. Ernani G. Menez, Smith- 
sonian Oceanographic Sorting Center, National Museum of Natural History, 
from May 15, 1980, through May 14, 1981. 

Stephen Gardiner, Ph.D., University of North Carolina. Fine structural study 
of the new vestimentiferan from the geothermal vents of the Galapagos Rift 
region, with Dr. Meredith Jones, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, Na- 
tional Museum of Natural History, from August 1, 1980, through July 31, 1981. 
Patricia Hadley,* M.S. candidate, University of Maryland. A revisionary study 
of the triple-fin blenny genus, Helcogramma, with Dr. Victor Springer, Depart- 
ment of Vertebrate Zoology, National Museum of Natural History, from June 
2, 1980, through August 8, 1980. 

Edward J. Marintsch, Ph.D. candidate, State University of New York at Stony 
Brook. Bio stratigraphy and systematic paleontology of Middle Ordovician 
bryozoa from the southern Appalachian Basin, with Dr. Richard S. Boardman, 



458 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Department of Paleobiology, National Museum of Natural History, from March 
1, 1980, through August 31, 1980. 

Lynne Parenti, Ph.D., City University of New York. A taxonomic revision and 
bio geographic analysis of fishes of the genus Orestias (Cyprinodontidae), with 
Dr. Stanley Weitzman and Dr. Richard Vari, Department of Vertebrate 
Zoology, National Museum of Natural History, from August 11, 1980, through 
August 10, 1981. 

Gregory Pregill, Ph.D., University of Kansas. A study of the paleo-herpetofauna 
of the West Indies, with Dr. Storrs L. Olson, Department of Vertebrate Zool- 
ogy, National Museum of Natural History, from July 1, 1979, through June 30, 
1980. 

Ivica Radovic, Ph.D. candidate, University of Belgrade. Comparative mor- 
phological, taxonomic, and ecological study of Sphecoidea (Hymenoptera, 
Insecta), with Dr. Karl V. Krombein and Dr. Arnold S. Menke, Department of 
Entomology, National Museum of Natural History, from October 1, 1979, 
through July 31, 1980. 

Kenneth D. Rose, Ph.D., University of Michigan. Evolution of Early Tertiary 
mammal assemblages in Wyoming, with Dr. Robert J. Emry, Department of 
Paleobiology, National Museum of Natural History, from September 1, 1979, 
through August 31, 1980. 

Mayandy Sivadasan, Ph.D. candidate, University of Calicut. Taxonomic study 
of Araceae of southwestern India, with Dr. Dan H. Nicolson, Department of 
Botany, National Museum of Natural History, from August 1, 1979, through 
July 31, 1980. 

Ronald Toll,* Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. The morphology of the 
gladius in the order Teuthoidea (Mollusca, Cephalopoda) in relation to sys- 
tematics and phylogeny, with Dr. Clyde Roper, Department of Invertebrate 
Zoology, National Museum of Natural History, from September 8, 1980, 
through October 10, 1980. 

Roberta A. Townsend, Ph.D. candidate, University of Melbourne. The crustose 
coralline algae of southern Australia, with Dr. Walter H. Adey, Department of 
Paleobiology, National Museum of Natural History, from February 1, 1980, 
through January 1, 1981. 

Scott L. Wing, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. Paleoclimate and paleoecology 
of the Early Eocene Willwood. formation in the Bighorn Basin in Wyoming, 
with Dr. Leo J. Hickey, Department of Paleobiology, National Museum of 
Natural History, from January 1, 1980, through July 31, 1980. 
George William Wolfe, Ph.D. University of Tennessee. The Dytiscidae and 
Noteridae of Sri Lanka, with Dr. Paul J. Spangler, Department of Entomology, 
National Museum of Natural History, from September 1, 1979, through August 
31, 1980. 



PROGRAM IN THE HISTORY OF ART 

Ann Uhry Abrams, Ph.D., Emory University. Late 18th-century American his- 
tory painting, with Dr. Lillian Miller, Charles Willson Peale Papers, National 
Portrait Gallery, from August 1, 1980, through July 31, 1981. 
Henry Adams, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. The opalescent mind of John 
La Farge, with Dr. Joshua C. Taylor, National Collection of Fine Arts, from 
September 1, 1979, through August 31, 1980. 

Jeremy Adamson, Ph.D. candidate, The University of Michigan. American 
paintings of Niagara Falls, 1800-1880, National Collection of Fine Arts, from 
January 1, 1979, through January 1980 (extended to December 27, 1980). 
Suzanne E. Cahill,* Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Berkeley. Images 
of the goddess Hsi Wang Mm in medieval Chinese art; a study in iconography, 
with Dr. Thomas Lawton and Dr. Yoshiaki Shimizu, Freer Gallery of Art, from 
June 23, 1980, through August 29, 1980. 



Appendix 6. Academic Appointments I 459 



Andrew Cosentino, Ph.D., University of Delaware. National Collection of Fine 
Arts and Scholarly Studies Program. American art and the rural ideal, with 
Dr. Joshua C. Taylor, National Collection of Fine Arts, from September 1, 
1980, through February 28, 1981. 

Jennifer A. Gibson, Ph.D. candidate, University of Virginia. The 1940's in New 
York; radical politics and avant-garde art, with Mr. Garnett McCoy, Archives 
of American Art, from June 1, 1979, through May 31, 1980. 
Piri Halasz, Ph.D. candidate, Columbia University. Abraham Rattner, his art 
and its context in the 1940's, with Dr. Joshua C. Taylor and Dr. Harry Z. Rand, 
National Collection of Fine Arts, from July 1, 1980, through June 30, 1981. 
Jeffrey Hayes, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. Color-idea; the 
sources and development of Oscar Bluemner's principles of painting, 1907 to 
1929, with Dr. Joshua C. Taylor, National Collection of Fine Arts, from June 
1, 1980, through May 31, 1981. 

Nancy Heller, Ph.D. candidate, Rutgers University. The sculpture of Ibram 
Lassaw, with Mrs. Cynthia Jaffee McCabe and Dr. Judith K. Zilczer, Hirshhorn 
Museum and Sculpture Garden, from August 1, 1979, through January 31, 1981. 
Hongnam Kim, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. Chou Liang-kung (1612-1672) 
and his painter friends; mid-17 th-century Chinese painting, with Dr. Shen C. Y. 
Fu, Freer Gallery of Art, from September 1, 1980, through February 28, 1981. 
Ellen Landau, Ph.D. candidate, The University of Delaware. Lee Krasner and 
the development of abtract expressionism, National Collection of Fine Arts, 
from July 31, 1979, through August 1, 1980. 

Anne Palumbo, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. Joseph Pennell and 
the landscape of change, with Dr. Lillian Miller, Charles Willson Peale Papers, 
National Portrait Gallery, from September 1, 1980, through August 31, 1981. 
Arthur Pontynen, Ph.D. candidate, University of Iowa. Early development of 
Taoist art, with Dr. Thomas Lawton, Freer Gallery of Art, from September 1, 
1979, through May 31, 1980. 

Lars Saari,* Licentiate, Abo Akademi, Finland. Studies in American pop art 
and related trends and their influence in Europe and Finland, with Dr. Harry 
Z. Rand, National Collection of Fine Arts, from June 2, 1980, through August 
8, 1980. 

Julie Ann Schimmel, Ph.D. candidate, New York University. Westward the 
course of empire; the rise and progress of John Mix Stanley, with Mr. William 
Truettner, National Collection of Fine Arts, from January 1, 1979, through 
December 31, 1980. 

Merrill Schleier, Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Berkeley. The 
image of the skyscraper in American art, 1900-1930, with Dr. Joshua C. 
Taylor, National Collection of Fine Arts, and Dr. Judith K. Zilczer, Hirshhorn 
Museum and Sculpture Garden, from September 1, 1979, through August 31, 
1980. 

Wilford W. Scott, Ph.D. candidate, University of Delaware. Philadelphia mod- 
ernism, 1905 to 1920, with Mrs. Adelyn D. Breeskin and Dr. Joshua C. Taylor, 
National Collection of Fine Arts, and Dr. Judith K. Zilczer, Hirshhorn Museum 
and Sculpture Garden, from June 1, 1979, through May 31, 1981. 
Marc Simpson, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. Anglo-American artists and 
writers in Worcestershire, 1885-1892; Frank Millet, Edwin Austin Abbey, John 
S. Sargent, Henry James and others, with Dr. Joshua C. Taylor and Dr. Lois M. 
Fink, National Collection of Fine Arts, from September 1, 1980, through August 
31, 1981. 

Eiichi Taguchi, Ph.D., Tokyo University of Fine Arts. Harold P. Stern Memorial 
Fund Fellowship. Study of the Japanese painting collection, with Dr. Thomas 
Lawton, Freer Gallery of Art, from June 9, 1980, through August 15, 1980. 
James Yarnall, Ph.D. candidate, The University of Chicago. John La Farge's 
theory and practice of landscape painting, National Collection of Fine Arts, 
October 14, 1979 through September 30, 1980. 



460 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



PROGRAM IN THE HISTORY OF SCIENCE 
AND TECHNOLOGY 

Joseph J. Corn III, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Guggenheim 
Fellow. The gospel of aviation, with Paul A. Hanle, Space Science and Ex- 
ploration Department, National Air and Space Museum, from August 1, 1979, 
through September 30, 1980. 

Elizabeth Keeney, Ph.D. candidate, University of Wisconsin. Botany in 19th- 
century American culture, with Dr. Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers, 
from September 1, 1980, through May 31, 1981. 

Benjamin S. Kelsey, M.S., Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The Charles 
A. Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History. Development of military aircraft, 
1927-1940, with Mr. Donald S. Lopez, Department of Aeronautics, National 
Air and Space Museum, from February 1, 1979, through January 31, 1981. 
Nancy Knight, Ph.D. candidate, Duke University. The irregular practitioner 
and his instruments in the progressive era; a focus on Smithsonian collections, 
with Dr. Audrey B. Davis, Department of History of Science, National Museum 
of History and Technology, from September 1, 1979, through May 31, 1980. 
Larry Lankton, Ph.D., University of Pennsylvania. Technological change within 
a mining community , the Quincy copper mine, 1846 to 1931, with Dr. Brooke 
Hindle, Historian, and Dr. John Hoffman, and Mr. Robert Vogel, Department 
of History of Technology, National Museum of History and Technology, from 
May 15, 1980, through May 14, 1981. 

Richard M. Levy, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. The growth and 
development of the construction industry in Washington 1865-1917 , with Mr. 
Robert M. Vogel, Department of History of Technology, National Museum of 
History and Technology, from February 15, 1980, through August 31, 1980. 
Jonathan M. Liebenau, Ph.D. candidate, University of Pennsylvania. Medicine 
and the medical industry, Philadelphia 1890-1930, with Dr. Audrey B. Davis 
and Dr. Ramunas Kondratas, Department of History of Science, National 
Museum of History and Technology, from September 1, 1979, through August 
31, 1980. 

Barbara Melosh, Ph.D., Brown University. Technological innovation and the 
hospital as workplace, 1945 to the present, with Dr. Audrey Davis and Dr. 
Ramunas Kondratas, Department of History of Science, National Museum of 
History and Technology, from September 1, 1980, through August 31, 1981. 
Paul Shaw,* Ph.D. candidate, Columbia University. History of American type 
founders including their type designs, with Dr. Elizabeth Harris, Department 
of Cultural History, National Museum of History and Technology, from July 
7, 1980, through September 12, 1980. 

Philip Shoemaker,* Ph.D. candidate, University of Wisconsin. Ormsby Mc- 
Knight Mitchel and astronomy in America, with Dr. Marc Rothenberg, Joseph 
Henry Papers, from July 21, 1980, through September 26, 1980. 
Junius Brutus Stroud III, Ph.D., University of Virginia. The use of mathe- 
matical models in the teaching of mathematics and the history of mathematics 
in America, with Dr. Uta C. Merzbach, Department of History of Science, 
National Museum of History and Technology, from July 15, 1979, through 
July 14, 1980. 

Jeffrey Sturchio, Ph.D., University of Pennsylvania. Chemists and the chemical 
industry in America, 1860 to 1940, with Dr. Jon Eklund, Department of History 
of Science, National Museum of History and Technology, from September 1, 
1980, through August 31, 1981. 

William L. Withuhn, Ph.D. candidate, Cornell University. American steam 
locomotives; an engineering history, 1900 to 1953, with Mr. John H. White, Jr., 
Department of History of Technology, National Museum of History and Tech- 
nology, from March 1, 1980, through February 28, 1981. 



Appendix 6. Academic Appointments I 461 



PROGRAM IN TROPICAL BIOLOGY 

Diane DeSteven, Ph.D., University of Michigan. Patterns of predispersal seed 
predation in tropical shrubs, with Dr. Egbert G. Leigh, Smithsonian Tropical 
Research Institute, from September 1, 1980, through August 31, 1981. 
Susan A. Foster, Ph.D. candidate, University of Washington. Walter Rathbone 
Bacon Scholarship. Influence of habitat structure on the size and composition 
of schools of Caribbean acanthurids, with Dr. D. Ross Robertson, Smithsonian 
Tropical Research Institute, from September 15, 1980, through September 14, 
1981. 

Raymond Highsmith, Ph.D., University of Wisconsin. Bioerosion of coral 
skeletons and mollusc shells, with Dr. Peter Glynn and Dr. Harilaos Lessios, 
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from September 1, 1980, through 
May 31, 1981. 

Steven G. Hoffman, Ph.D., University of California, Santa Barbara. Time and 
energy budget responses to food addition in an herbivorous parrotfish, with 
Dr. D. Ross Robertson and Dr. Ira Rubinoff, Smithsonian Tropical Research 
Institute, from January 1, 1980, through December 31, 1980. 
Lucinda McDade, Ph.D., Duke University. The effect of plant density, as in- 
fluenced by human alteration of habitat, on reproductive biology of hermit 
hummingbird pollinated plant species, with Dr. Robert Dressier, Smithsonian 
Tropical Research Institute, from September 1, 1980, through August 31, 1981. 
Francis E. Putz, Ph.D. candidate, Cornell University. How lianas influence 
forest dynamics and how forest dynamics influence the distribution and abun- 
dance of lianas, with Dr. Egbert Leigh, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 
from July 1, 1979, through December 31, 1980. 

Michael J. Ryan, Ph.D. candidate, Cornell University, factors influencing dif- 
ferential reproductive strategies in the neotropical frog, Physalaemus pustu- 
losus, with Dr. A. Stanley Rand, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from 
July 1, 1979, through June 30, 1981. 

Barbara L. Thorne, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. A study of aspects 
of the ecology of arboreal Nasutitermes in a New World tropical forest, with 
Dr. Egbert G. Leigh and Dr. Robert E. Silberglied, Smithsonian Tropical Re- 
search Institute, from May 1, 1979, through April 30, 1980. 
S. Joseph Wright, Ph.D., University of California, Los Angeles. Experimental 
study of interspecific competition and migrant ecology, with Dr. A. Stanley 
Rand, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from August 1, 1980, through 
July 31, 1981. 



MUSEUM EXHIBITS OPERATION FELLOWS 

Hollister Smith, University of Iowa and St. Louis Medical Museum. Compila- 
tion of data for a syllabus on museum exhibits, with Mr. Kerry M. Joels, Edu- 
cation Division, National Air and Space Museum, from June 16, 1980, through 
August 8, 1980. 

Herbert D. Thier, New York University and Lawrence Hall of Science Univer- 
sity of California, Berkeley. Research and consultation on exhibits operation, 
with Mr. Kerry M. Joels, Education Division, National Air and Space Museum, 
from June 16, 1980, through July 18, 1980. 



FREER FELLOW 

Louisa Cunningham, The University of Michigan. Study of literati paintings 
in the Freer Gallery, February 1980 through June 1980. 



462 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



H1RSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN INTERNS 

Sarah D. Cash, Smith College. Research and study, with Mrs. Cynthia Jaffee 
McCabe, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from June 9, 1980, through 
August 15, 1980. 

Jody De Voll, George Washington University. Research and study in the De- 
partment of Education, with Edward P. Lawson, from January 14, 1980, through 
May 6, 1980. 

Eileen M. Evans, Michigan State University. Research and study with a curator 
of exhibitions, with Mr. Edward Lawson, Department of Education, from June 
9, 1980, through August 18, 1980. 

Lena E. Fransioli, Harvard University. Research and study on the permanent 
collection, bringing the catalogues up to date, with Ms. Inez Garson, Depart- 
ment of Painting and Sculpture, from June 9, 1980, through August 15, 1980. 
Elizabeth Stevenson, Stanford University. Research and study on exhibition 
design, with Mr. Joseph Shannon, Department of Exhibits and Design, from 
June 9, 1980, through August 15, 1980. 

Rodney M. Zerbe, Bucknell University. Research and study on museum educa- 
tion, with Mr. Edward Lawson, Department of Education, from June 9, 1980, 
through August 15, 1980. 



H1RSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 
CONSERVATION INTERN 

Alfred C. Bedford, III, Oneonta State University. Investigation of cold lining 
techniques applicable to modern painting, with Mr. Lawrence Hoffman, Con- 
servation Laboratory, from June 9, 1980, through August 15, 1980. 



NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS INTERNS 

Summer Interns 

Nancy Adelson, Yale University. Research on Eisenstaedt exhibition scheduled 
for October 1980, with Ms. Barbara Shissler, Department of Education, from 
June 5, 1980, through August 8, 1980. 

Mary Alice Beattie, Providence College. Research and study, with Mrs. 
Christine Minter Dowd, Renwick Gallery, from June 5, 1980, through August 7, 
1980. 

Sara Beckner, Mills College. Research and study, with Mrs. Patricia Chieffo, 
Office of Research and Professional Training, from June 5, 1980, through 
August 7, 1980. 

Elaine Cobos, University of California, Santa Barbara. Research on the WPA 
artists and program, with Mrs. Virginia Mecklenberg, Department of 20th 
century Paining and Sculpture, from June 5, 1980, through August 7, 1980. 
Ellen Hedlund, Oberlin College. Research and study, with Mrs. Patricia Chieffo, 
Office of Research and Professional Training, from June 5, 1980, through 
August 7, 1980. 

Deborah Johnson, University of Minnesota. Research and study, with Mrs. 
Patricia Chieffo, Office of Research and Professional Training, from June 5, 
1980, through August 7, 1980. 

Kate Nearpass, Columbia University. Work on the Renwick exhibition, Cele- 
brations, with Ms. Elaine Eff, Renwick Gallery, from June 9, 1980, through 
August 8, 1980. 

Elizabeth Turner, University of Virginia. Research and study with Dr. Harry 
Z. Rand, Department of 20th Century Painting and Sculpture, from June 5, 
1980, through August 7, 1980. 



Appendix 6. Academic Appointments I 463 



American Studies Intern 
Nancy Brown, George Washington University (January-April 1980). 

Conservation Interns 

Elizabeth Court, University of Delaware (September-December 1979). 
Florence Herrenschmidt, Institute of Art and Archaeology, University of Paris 
(November 1979-August 1980). 

Nancy Heugh, Cooperstown Conservation Training Program (September 1979- 
September 1980). 

Education Interns 

Joan Casazza, Pennsylvania State University (September-December 1979). 
Elizabeth Gilbert, George Washington University (January-April 1980). 
Ann Goldstein, University of California at Los Angeles (January-June 1980). 
Louise Hartman, Pennsylvania State University (September-December 1979). 
Barbara Henry, George Washington University (January-April 1980). 

Program in Museum Studies 

Susan Cumbey, George Washington University (September 1979-April 1980). 

Kathy Hill, American University (September 1979-April 1980). 

Roberta Rimpe, George Washington University (September 1979-April 1980). 

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM INTERNS 

Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellowships 

Helen DuBose, University of North Carolina. Research and study, with Mrs. 
Mary Kerr in the Department of Education, from June 9, 1980, through Au- 
gust 8, 1980. 

Barbara Laskey, Yale University. Research and study, with Mrs. Elaine Dee 
and Mr. Peter Scherer in the Department of Drawings and Prints, from June 9, 
1980, through August 8, 1980. 

Jane Tekulsky, University of California, Santa Cruz, Research and study with 
Mrs. Dorothy Globus in the Exhibition Department from June 9, 1980, through 
August 8, 1980. 

Decorative Arts Intern 

Cynthia Plaut, State University College, Oneonta, New York. Work on devel- 
opment of a finders' guide for the decorative arts with Mr. David McFadden, 
Department of Decorative Arts, from June 9, 1980, through August 29, 1980. 

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM INTERNS 

Kathryn Olesko, Ph.D., Cornell University. Establishment of curatorial records 
for astronautical artifacts, with Dr. Paul Hanle, Department of Space Sciences 
and Exploration, from June 16, 1980, through August 8, 1980. 
Rae Smith, Delaware State College. Research and study, with Mrs. Janet Wolfe 
in the Education Services Division, from June 9, 1980, through August 1, 1980. 
Cynthia Thompson, Appalachian State University. Research and study with 
reference to handicaps, special education, and services for exceptional individ- 
uals, with Ms. Helen Podolske in the Education Services Division from June 9, 
1980, through August 1, 1980. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES VISITING STUDENT 

Carleton Cunningham, Gallaudet College. Archival management and studies, 
with Mr. Richard Szary, Smithsonian Archives, from June 3, 1980, through 
July 25, 1980. 



464 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS VISITING STUDENT 

Mark Tucker, Yale University. Independent study of jazz music and musicians; 
score notation and research into proposed music to be recorded and performed 
at the Smithsonian, with Mr. Martin Williams, Division of Performing Arts, 
from May 5, 1980, through August 8, 1980. 

SMITH COLLEGE-SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 
PROGRAM IN AMERICAN STUDIES 

Monica Conyngham, Smith College. Study of patent models for the textile 

industry, with Mr. Gary Kulik, Department of the History of Technology, 

National Museum of History and Technology, from September 8, 1980, through 

December 12, 1980. 

Nancy Guyton, Smith College. Research on the papers of Emanuel Benson, 

with Mr. Garnett McCoy, Archives of American Art, National Collection of 

Fine Arts, from September 8, 1980, through December 12, 1980. 

Ellen Harrington, Smith College. Research on the papers of Charles Willson 

Peale, with Dr. Lillian Miller, Charles Willson Peale Papers, National Portrait 

Gallery, from September 8, 1980, through December 12, 1980. 

Karyn Hausmann, Smith College. Study of the technology and marketing of 

frozen concentrated orange juice, with Dr. G. Terry Sharrer, Department of 

the History of Technology, from September 8, 1980, through December 12, 

1980. 

Jane Henderson, Smith College. Research for an exhibition on American folk 

portraits, with Dr. Ellen Miles, National Portrait Gallery, from September 8, 

1980, through December 12, 1980. 

Candace Jones, Smith College. Research for an exhibition on women's history, 

with Ms. Edith Mayo, Department of National History, National Museum of 

History and Technology from September 8, 1980, through December 12, 1980. 

Traci Williams, Smith College. Research on the papers of Joseph Henry, with 

Dr. Nathan Reingold and Dr. Marc Rothenberg, Joseph Henry Papers, from 

September 8, 1980, through December 12, 1980. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION OPEN STUDY STUDENTS 

Missy Aiken, Salem College. Study of preparatorial and curatorial procedures 
and analyzing data in mammalogy for publication, with Dr. Richard Thoring- 
ton, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, National Museum of Natural History. 
Jeffrey Amen, University of California, Davis. Study of preparatorial and cura- 
torial procedures in mammalogy, with Dr. Charles O. Handley, Department of 
Vertebrate Zoology, and research on skeletal proportions of rodents, with Dr. 
Michael Carleton, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, National Museum of 
Natural History. 

Dian Belanger, George Washington University. Study of museum procedures 
with emphasis on registration methods, with Mr. Donald Kloster, Department 
of National History, National Museum of History and Technology. 
Mary Ames Booker, Sweet Briar College. Study of preparatorial and cataloging 
techniques for, and research on, a group of furniture patent models, with Ms. 
Rodris Roth, Department of Cultural History, National Museum of History 
and Technology. 

Frank Caponio, Shenandoah College and Conservatory of Music. Work and 
study on various aspects of box office and house management, with Mrs. 
Sharyn Reitz, Division of Performing Arts. 

Edward Colburn, Trinity College. Work and study on technical operations with 
emphasis on lighting, equipment maintenance, stagecraft and scenery construc- 



Appendix 6. Academic Appointments I 465 



Hon, and sound reinforcement, with Mr. Harold Closter, Division of Perform- 
ing Arts. 

David Cunningham, American University. Study of registration techniques, 
especially cataloging, with Mr. Donald Kloster, Department of National His- 
tory, National Museum of History and Technology. 

Marianne Curling, Virginia Commonwealth University. Research on American 
brass and copperware craftsmen, with Mrs. Anne Golovin, Department of 
Cultural History, National Museum of History and Technology. 
Margaret Fleming, University of California, Davis. Research on James Reeside, 
early 19th-century stage-coach operator, with Mr. Don Berkebile, Department 
of the History of Technology, National Museum of History and Technology. 
Ellen Freedman, Vassar College. Research, programming, and production of 
Museum Programs projects, with Ms. Shirley Cherkasky, Division of Perform- 
ing Arts. 

Sarah Griffin, Martha Washington College. Study of museum accessioning 
process, with Mr. Donald Kloster, Department of National History, National 
Museum of History and Technology. 

Amy Heller, Hampshire College. Registrarial work and general research on 
exhibition, Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual, with Ms. Elaine Eff, 
Renwick Gallery. 

Lawrence Howe, University of Maryland. Writing feature stories about Smith- 
sonian scientific research for the Smithsonian News Service, with Mrs. 
Madeline Jacobs, Office of the Coordinator of Public Information . 
Suellen McKee, American University. Study of museum security and procedures 
for investigation of thefts, with Mr. Robert Burke, Office of Protection Services. 
Laurie Newman, Sweet Briar College. Identification of anthropological photo- 
graphs in Hrdlicka collection, with Mr. James Glenn, National Anthropological 
Archives, National Museum of Natural History. 

Elizabeth Parker, Gettysburg College. Study of collections management opera- 
tions, with emphasis on methods of textile storage, record keeping, and con- 
servation, with Ms. Rita Adrosko, Department of the History of Technology, 
National Museum of History and Technology. 

David Personius, University of Wisconsin, Stevens Point. Study of curatorial 
operations of collection of grasses, with Dr. Thomas Soderstrom, Department 
of Botany, National Museum of Natural History. 

Mary Sieg, George Peabody College for Teachers. Study of archival procedures 
for tapes and photographic collections of past Folklife Festivals, with Ms. 
Elizabeth Beuck, Folklife Program, Office of American Studies. 
Michael Wainston, American University. Research for scripting of American 
Musical Theatre performances in 1980-81 season, including work on produc- 
tion for July 4th Celebration, with Mrs. Sharyn Reitz, Division of Performing 
Arts. 

Michelle Wander, Hollins College. Study of production methods for American 
Musical Theatre series, with Mrs. Peggy A. Martin, Division of Performing 
Arts. 

John Watson, George Washington University. Identification of plants of South 
America, especially those of Brazil, with Dr. Lyman Smith, Department of 
Botany; and identification and referencing of a collection of Chinese materia 
medica and study of classical and folk uses of drug agents, with Dr. Ramunas 
Kondratas, Department of History of Science, National Museum of Natural 
History. 

June Wod, St. Andrew's Presbyterian College. Study of methods of museum 
education for the handicapped and the use of museum facilities for handi- 
capped, with Ms. Jan Majewski, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education. 



466 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM INTERNS 
Summer Interns 

Linda Bandjunis, Practical aspects of a public affairs office, with Rita Bobowski, 
Public Affairs and Museum Services, National Air and Space Museum, from 
June 23, 1980, through August 1, 1980. 

Julie Birch, Input and correction of the NASM Periodical Index, with Catherine 
D. Scott, Library Branch, National Air and Space Museum, from June 23, 1980, 
through August 1, 1980. 

David Durham, California Institute of Technology. Wind tunnels and concepts 
of experimental aerodynamics, with Howard Wolko, Department of Aero- 
nautics, National Air and Space Museum, from July 14, 1980, through Au- 
gust 25, 1980. 

James G. C. T. Gerber, Princeton University. Research in solar energy as 
groundwork for a National Air and Space Museum exhibition, with Paul A. 
Hanle, Space Science and Exploration Department, National Air and Space 
Museum, from June 9, 1980, through August 15, 1980. 

Eric Huber, Theory and practice of museum photography, with Dale Hrabak, 
Photographic Services, National Air and Space Museum, from June 23, 1980, 
through August 1, 1980. 

Karl S. Schneide, American University, Washington, D.C. Identification and 
inventorying of aviation materiel and related items, with Donald S. Lopez, 
Department of Aeronautics, National Air and Space Museum, from June 9, 
1980, through August 15, 1980. 

National Aeronautics and Space Administration Planetary 
Geology Interns 

Charles Herzig, Dickinson College, Pennsylvania. NASA Planetary Geology 
Intern Program, with Farouk El-Baz, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, 
National Air and Space Museum, from June 9, 1980, through July 18, 1980. 
Melinda Hutson, University of Minnesota, NASA Planetary Geology Intern 
Program, with Robert Wolfe, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, National 
Air and Space Museum, from June 23, 1980, through August 1, 1980. 

Center for Earth and Planetary Studies Interns 

Ellen Lettvin, University of Michigan. Mariner photography, with Farouk El- 
Baz, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, National Air and Space Museum, 
from July 1, 1980, through August 8, 1980. 

Ellen Stofan, William and Mary, Virginia. Streaks on Mars, with Farouk El- 
Baz, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, National Air and Space Museum, 
from June 30, 1980, through August 22, 1980. 



CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES 
WORK/LEARN STUDENTS 



Mike Bandera 
Elizabeth Budd 
Lee Ann Eareckson 
Jo Goeldner 
Pixie Hamilton 
Janet Hays 
Alex Johnson 
Harry Kalish 
Louise Kowich 



David Light 
Elizabeth Marshall 
Susan Merkel 
Nancy Mick 
Cathy Newberg 
Nancy O'Meara 
Debbie Orbach 
Mary Jo Orzech 
Anne Polansky 



Debra Prybyla 
Anne Rader 
Paul Seelbach 
Judith Sternfeld 
Tyrone Stinson 
Steve Vail 
Margaret Wilcox 
John Young 
Joanne Zimmermann 



Appendix 6. Academic Appointments I 467 



SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 
SHORT-TERM FELLOWSHIPS IN TROPICAL BIOLOGY 

Scholarly Studies Program 

Leo Fleishman, Cornell University. 

Kenneth Morgan, University of California at Los Angeles. 

Patricia Parker, University of North Carolina. 

Carol Todzia, University of Texas at Austin. 

Gayle Vande Kerchove, University of Florida. 

Petra Volkel, Ruhr University at Bochum. 

Lani West, Hopkins Marine Station, Stanford University. 

Rolf Zell, Ruhr University at Bochum. 

ASSISTANTSHIPS IN TROPICAL BIOLOGY 

Educational Outreach Fund 

Juan Achurra, Universidad de Panama. 

Brian C. Bock, University of Tennessee. 

Christine Copenhaver, University of Utah. 

Steve Gaines, Oregon State University. 

Eric Gonzalez, Universidad de Panama. 

Rene Mariscal, Universidad de Panama. 

R. Argelis Ruiz, Universidad de Panama. 

Guadalupe Scott, Universidad de Panamaa. 

Katherine Troyer, University of California at Davis. 

German Parra Valencia, Unidad de Investigaciones Botanicas y Ecologicas. 

EXXON Corporation 

Juan Achurra, Universidad de Panama. 
Arsenio Arauz, Universidad de Panama. 
Carlos Ayarza, Universidad de Panama. 
Victoria Batista, Universidad de Botota, Colombia. 
Raghavendra Gadagkar, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India. 
Guillermo Garcia de Paredes, Universidad de Panama. 
Eric Gonzalez, Universidad de Panama. 
Rigoberto Gonzalez, Universidad de Panama. 
Guillermo Jules, Universidad de Panama. 
Rene Mariscal, Universidad de Panama. 
Migdalia Martinez, Universidad de Panama. 
Hebe Monteza, Universidad de Panama. 
Eira M. Polo, Universidad de Panama. 
Vielka Quintero, Universidad de Panama. 
Jorge Roldan, Universidad de Panama. 
R. Argelis Ruiz, Universidad de Panama. 
Dalixa Vinda, Universidad de Panama. 

Megumi Yamakoshi, Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Manaus, 
Brazil. 



468 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



APPENDIX 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution 
in Fiscal Year 1980 



As a trust instrumentality of the United States, the Smithsonian Institution has 
received federal support since it was established in 1846 to carry out the terms 
of James Smithson's will. Appropriated funds have long provided important 
additions to the trust funds, donated by Smithson and subsequent benefactors, 
to enable the Institution to carry out its responsibilities for research and exhi- 
bition of the national collections and maintenance of the valuable objects and 
records of science, history, and culture entrusted to the Institution. 

The Smithsonian's basic trust funds have provided the Institution with the 
elements of flexibility and independence essential to its creative, innovative 
growth. Trust funds traditionally have made possible many of the research, 
acquisition, and educational programs, which are central to the Smithsonian's 
present resources and achievements. 

The Smithsonian is extremely grateful to the foundations, corporations, and 
individuals listed below for their gifts, bequests, and contributing memberships 
in the Smithsonian Associates. If the name of any benefactor has been omitted 
from the following list, it is unintentional and in no way lessens the Smith- 
sonian's appreciation. 



GIFTS AND BEQUESTS TO THE SMITHSONIAN 



$100,000 or more: 



The Japan Foundation 
The Knapp Foundation, Inc. 
NCR Corporation 



James Smithson Society 
United Technologies 



$10,000 or more: 



American Broadcasting Companies, 

Inc. 
Anonymous 

The Vincent Astor Foundation 
Atlantic Richfield Foundation 
Mr. Stephen W. Brener 
Mrs. Helen W. Buckner 
Mary Livingston Griggs & 

Mary Griggs Burke Foundation 
The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz 

Foundation 
Dayton Hudson Foundation 
Mr. Edward R. Downe, Jr. 
The Max & Victoria Dreyfus 

Foundation Inc. 
The Eppley Foundation for 

Research Incorporated 
Mr. Thomas M. Evans 
EXXON Corporation 



Florists Transworld Delivery 

Association 
Food and Agricultural Organization 

of the United Nations 
The Ford Foundation 
Mrs. Katharine L. Graham 
Joseph H. Hazen Foundation, Inc. 
Mrs. Janet A. Hooker 
Janet A. Hooker Charitable Trust 
Institute for Educational Affairs, Inc. 
Intercoiffure America 
International Union for the 

Conservation of Nature 
The J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc. 
Mrs. Karen Johnson Keland 
Samuel H. Kress Foundation 
Lighting Business Group of 

General Electric 
Mr. Richard Manoogian 



Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 469 



$10,000 or 

Ambassador Marquita M. Maytag 
Metropolitan Study Center for 

Asian Art 
The Ambrose Monell Foundation 
Philip Morris Incorporated 
National Geographic Society 
The Nature Conservancy 
Mr. Robert C. Nelson Jr. 
New York State Council on the Arts 



more — continued 

The Rockefeller Foundation 
Mr. Arthur Ross 
Arthur Ross Foundation 
Mary Horner Stuart Foundation 
The Weatherhead Foundation 
The Women's Committee of the 

Smithsonian Associates 
World Wildlife Fund 
Estate of D. Lorraine Yerkes 



$1,000 or more: 



Adelphi University 

Adolphus Foundation 

AKC Fund, Inc. 

Alpha Xi Delta Foundation 

The Alvord Foundation 

Amax Foundation, Inc. 

The American Association of 

Petroleum Geologists 
The American Association of 

Petroleum Geologists Foundation 
American Floral Services Inc. 
Amos Press, Incorporated 
Anaconda Copper Company 
Anonymous 

Arkansas Florists Association, Inc. 
Badger Meter Foundation, Inc. 
Mrs. Peter L. Ballantyne 
J. M. R. Barker Foundation 
Mr. George Barlow 
The Barra Foundation, Inc. 
Mrs. Evelyn F. Bartlett 
The Bass Foundation 
Mr. David P. Becker 
Mrs. Arthur Belfer 
Belgian American Educational 

Foundation Inc. 
Beneficial Foundation, Inc. 
Miss Julia A. Bissell 
Mr. Leigh B. Block 
Louis W. Bowen Incorporated 
The Bristol-Myers Fund 
Mrs. Keith S. Brown 
Brunschwig & Fils, Inc. 
Estate of Russell P. Bullinger 
The Bundy Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Burnham, Jr. 
California Arts Council 
Mrs. Elisabeth Carson 
Mrs. John B. Carter, Sr. 
Clarence House Imports, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Willard G. Clark 
Consolidated Edison Company of 
New York, Inc. 



Dr. G. Arthur Cooper 

Corning Glass Works 

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Corroon 

Mrs. Priscilla Cunningham 

Mrs. Frederic Arnold Daum 

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Day, Jr. 

Mrs. Phyllis Dearborn-Massar 

Mr. David Dibner 

Mr. Paul W. Doll 

Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley 

The Max & Victoria Dreyfus 

Foundation Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Saul Dunitz 
Joel & Anne Ehrenkranz 

Foundation Inc. 
Embassy of the Republic of Kenya 

to the U.S. 
Estate of David E. Finley 
Ms. Patricia A. Fletcher 
Ford Fund 

Foremost-McKesson Foundation, Inc. 
Garrett Corporation 
Mrs. Walter Gellhorn 
General Refractories Company 
Sumner Gerard Foundation 
Getty Oil Company 
Mr. and Mrs. Morton Globus 
Mr. Bernard H. Goldstein 
Mr. Preston Greene 
The Griffis Foundation Inc. 
Gulf Research and Development 

Company 
Hallmark Cards Inc. 
Dr. Gary Hansen 
Mr. Peter T. Hanson 
Harvard University 
Mr. August Heckscher 
Mr. Henry J. Heinz II 
Mrs. Amy E. Higgins 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn 
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay 
Mrs. Herbert Hoover 
Hughes Tool Company 



470 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



$1,000 or more — continued 



IBM Corporation 

International Trust for Conservation 

International Harvester Company 

Mrs. Sally Faile Jeancon 

Jewish Welfare Foundation 

The Johns Hopkins University Press 

Mrs. Dorothy Johnson 

Mrs. Ruth Cole Kainen 

Miss Marguerite H. Kellogg 

Kent-Lucas Foundation 

Kettering Fund 

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney 

Estate of Fred Klein 

Mr. Frederick R. Koch 

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin C. Korengold 

Lee/Jofa 

Lenox, Incorporated 

Lindblad Travel, Inc. 

Howard & Jean Lipman Foundation 

Inc. 
Mrs. Elizabeth Lorentz 
Mrs. Kathleen S. Louchheim 
Marathon Oil Foundation Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Marsteller 
Dr. Brian H. Mason 
Matthey Bishop, Inc. 
Dr. and Mrs. Abraham Melamed 
The Charles E. Merrill Trust 
Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer 

Foundation 
Middle Atlantic Florist Association 
Miss Marian Mitchell 
National Audubon Society, Inc. 
Paula and David Newman 
The NL Industries Foundation, Inc. 
The Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer 
Outdoor Amusement Business 

Association Inc. 
The Outlet Company 
Owens-Corning Fiberglas 

Corporation 
Flynn and Martin Patterson 
The Pfaltzgraff Company 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter N. Pharr 
The Pioneer Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. Lloyd E. Raport 
Rare Animal Relief Effort, Inc. 
Mrs. Sara D. Redmond 
The Rhode Island Historical Society 
Mrs. William L. Richards 
Anne S. Richardson Fund 
Dr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley 
Mrs. Margaret W. Root 



Miss Agnes Saalfield 

The Scherman Foundation, Inc. 

Sarah I. Schieffelin Residuary Trust 

Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro 

Jean S. & Fredrick A. Sharf Fund 

Mrs. Charles Simon 

Mrs. Adele Simpson 

The L. J. & Mary Skaggs Foundation 

C. G. Sloan & Co. Inc. 

Mr. H. Russell Smith 

Society of American Florists & 

Ornamental Horticulture 
Mrs. Eloise A. Spaeth 
Sperry Corporation 
St. Joe Minerals Corp. 
Mrs. J. M. Stangl 
Stavropoulos Corporation 
Mr. and Mrs. Harrison I. Steans 
Miss Elizabeth Stein 
Sterling Silversmiths Guild of 

America 
The Florence Louchheim Stol 

Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr. 
Mr. A. Alfred Taubman 
Teleflora Inc. 
Tewksbury Antiques 
Dr. John S. Thacher 
Miss Helen R. Thompson 
Time-Life Books Inc. 
Tom & Barnt Limited 
The Trilateral Commission 
Mrs. Elizabeth S. Trippe 
Mrs. Barbara Tuchman 
Undersea Medical Society 
Mrs. Anne Ford Uzielli 
Mr. and Mrs. John Van Hanford, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Claus Von Bulow 
Wallcovering Information Bureau 

Inc. 
The Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation 
Miss Leslie Anne Weeks 
Ralph J. Weiler Foundation 
Miss Nina W. Werblow 
Mrs. Annie B. Wetmore 
Mr. Otto K. Wetzel, Jr. 
Wholesale Florists & Florist 

Suppliers of America 
Mrs. Claire A. Williams 
Woodward & Lothrop Incorporated 
World Wildlife Fund International 
The Wyeth Endowment for American 

Art 
Xerox Corporation 



Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 471 



$500 or more: 



American Philosophical Society 

Amicus Foundation Inc. 

Anonymous 

Mrs. James H. Beal 

Mrs. Arthur Belfer 

Miss Doris L. Blau 

Mrs. Ann W. Brewer 

Mr. Martin A. Buzas 

C&P Telephone 

Carolina/Virginia NCR Users Group 

The Catesby Foundation 

Mrs. Miles Chubb 

Coach Leatherware Collection 

Ron and Penney Dante 

Miss Anne S. Dayton 

Mrs. Marie De Menil 

Ms. Kathryn F. Donaldson 

John C. Edelmann Galleries 

Estate of Edith Ehrman 

Mr. Ray Eilers 

Dr. William E. Evans 

William and Martha Ford Fund 

Dr. Kurt Fredriksson 

Dr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Fritts 

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Globus 

Miss Genevieve H. Goodwin 

Great Eastern Numismatic 

Association 
Mr. Richard V. Hare 
Miss Pauline L. Harrison 
The Sidney L. Hechinger Foundation 
The Henfield Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Herzman 
Mrs. Sheila Isham 
IU International 
Miss Lucille Mclntyre Jewett 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Johnson 
Mrs. Jacob M. Kaplan 



Roe Kasian Designs Inc. 

Kerr-McGee Corporation 

Mr. Seymour H. Knox 

Arthur and Nanette Kreizel 

Miss Annaline Levi 

Mrs. Deborah S. Mandeville 

Mr. James Marcus 

Miss Margaret D. McKee 

Mr. Gene Moore 

Alan Moss Studios Inc. 

The Nature Conservancy 

Miss Alice L. Norris 

North Carolina Florist Association 

Mrs. Harris Oppenheimer 

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur S. Penn 

Les Prismatiques 

Mrs. Sidney Quitman 

Riverway Co. 

Mr. William Robertson 

S. H. and Helen R. Scheuer 

Mrs. Helen M. Scholz 

Showmans League of America Aid 
Account 

Mr. Sidney N. Shure 

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth 

Mr. Garrick C. Stephenson 

Lewis & Rosa Strauss Memorial Fund 

The Taubman Company Inc. 

Mrs. Lila Tyng 

Unitarian Church 

Mrs. Robert D. Van Roijen 

Vice Versa 

Washington Unit Florists Transworld 
Delivery Association 

Ms. Suzanne Weinstein 

The Women's Auxiliary of the Inter- 
national Chiropractors Association 



We also gratefully acknowledge all other contributions to the Institution. 



SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES ■ CONTRIBUTING MEMBERS 

The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National Associates support 
the Institution's work through annual contributions of $50, $100, $250, and 
$500. 

The James Smithson Society was created in 1977 to encourage and recognize 
major gifts to the Smithsonian Institution. This Society, which is the highest 
order of the Contributing Memberships in the Smithsonian Associates, is com- 
prised of two membership categories. Annual Members are individuals who 
make unrestricted contributions of $1,000 to $24,999 annually. Life Members 
are those who give $25,000 or more either in monetary gifts or additions to the 
collections. 



472 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges the generous support 
of the James Smithson Society 1980 Annual Members, Life Members, and the 
Contributing Membership of the Smithsonian Associates. 

7.4MES SMITHSON SOCIETY 
1980 Life Members 

SMITHSON 

Sharon and Vincent Melzac 



GOLD 

Richard R. Bains 

Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow* 

Lee Bronson 

George E. Burch, M.D. 

Helen and George Capps 

Mrs. Howard F. Cook 

Mrs. Walter B. Ford II 



Mr. George Garfield 

Mr. Julius Garfield 

Arthur Ross* 

Alice Henderson Rossin 

Samuel Rubin 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda 



SILVER 

Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton* 

Donald Croom Beatty 

Richard A. Bideaux 

Edward R. Downe, Jr. 

Olin Dows 

Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Gross 

Norma B. Hazen 

Mr. Edward Henning 

Dr. and Mrs. Howard Ihrig* 

Mrs. George H. Jacobus 

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen* 



Lewis Kurt Land 

Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn* 

Richard A. Manoogian 

Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Moldermaker 

Mortimer L. Neinken 

Wallace R. Persons 

Kathleen and Edward Pflueger 

Edward J. and Nancee Slattery 

June and Leo F. Stornelli* 

Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper* 



BRONZE 

Mr. Joseph V. Alhadeff 

Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett 

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein 

Mr. and Mrs. Barnet Burstein 

Mr. and Mrs. Hyman Burstein 

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein 

Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton 

Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell 

Edwin J. and Elizabeth F. Cunningham 

Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi 

Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston 

Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson 

Stephen P. Gott 

Paul Horgan 

Karen Johnson Keland 

Harry E. Lennon 

Mrs. Adele Lozowick 



Mr. John A. Masek 
Sandy Levey Miller 
Dr. Joe H. and Mary Jane Mullins 
Mrs. Rudolf Pabst 
Mrs. Howard J. Sachs 
Mr. Peter G. Sachs 
Mr. and Mrs. Janos Scholz 
Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan 
Earl J. Spangler 
Norman H. Stavisky 
Janet Newbold Stewart 
Mr. Juan Terry Trippe 
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang 
Dr. Adolfo Villalon 
Mr. and Mrs. Archibald M. and 
Cue K. Withers 



Life Members previously awarded a Smithson Society medal for other gifts. 



Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 473 



Membership (Annual and Life) 

Mrs. Anni Albers** 

Mr. David K. Anderson** 

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson 

Hon. and Mrs. Walter H. Annenberg 

Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo** 

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo** 

Mrs. Joan Hay Baizerman** 

Mr. Geoffrey B. Baker 

Mr. and Mrs. John E. Baker II 

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass 

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Hood Bassett 

Mr. Preston R. Bassett** 

Mr. Henry C. Beck, Jr. 

Mrs. Henry C. Beck, Jr.** 

Mr. and Mrs. Clay P. Bedford** 

Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin** 

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Benton** 

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry** 

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald M. Best** 

Dr. and Mrs. B. Narayana Bhat** 

Mrs. Harry Payne Bingham 

Hon. and Mrs. Robert O. Blake 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner** 

Mr. and Mrs. Leigh B. Block** 

Mr. Allan J. Bloostein 

Mr. Winton M. Blount 

Mr. and Mrs. Thornton F. Bradshaw 

Mr. Nicholas F. Brady 

Mr. Alfred P. Brooks 

Mr. and Mrs. Keith S. Brown 

Mrs. David K. E. Bruce** 

Mrs. Susie Brummer 

Dr. Ruth Dowling Bruun and 

Dr. Bertel Bruun** 
Hon. Wiley T. Buchanan, Jr. 
Hon. and Mrs. Philip W. Buchen 
Mrs. Jackson Burke 
Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin Hubbard 

Caldwell, Jr.** 
Major General and Mrs. Daniel S. 

Campbell** 
Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell** 
Mr. Lawson J. Cantrell, Jr.** 
Allan Caplan** 
Mr. Charles W. Carroll 
Mrs. John B. Carter, Jr. 
Hon. and Mrs. Henry E. Catto, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. George P. Caulkins, Jr. 
Hon. and Mrs. Robert Home Charles 
Mr. and Mrs. E. Taylor Chewning, Jr. 
Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu** 
Mr. and Mrs. James H. Clement 



Mr. Thomas G. Cleveland** 

Mr. Robert L. Coleman** 

Mr. Joseph E. Conner 

Mr. and Mrs. Gardner Cowles 

Mr. Marshall B. Coyne 

Mrs. Mary Faye Craft 

Miss Louise Crane 

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth M. Crosby 

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III 

Mr. Eric L. Cummings 

Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling II** 

Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Daly III 

Mr. and Mrs. John H. Daniels 

Mr. and Mrs. Justin Dart 

Hon. Shelby Cullom Davis 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Davis 

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley R. Day 

Mr. Morse G. Dial, Jr. 

Ms. Kathryn F. Donaldson 

Mrs. Kathryn W. Donaldson 

Mr. James C. Donnell II 

Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley 

Mr. John T. Dorrance, Jr. 

Mr. John R. Doss** 

Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Douglas 

Mr. Willard D. Dover** 

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Downey 

Dale B. Dubin, M.D.** 

Willis H. duPont** 

Mr. Duncan L. Edwards** 

Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Elkins, Jr. 

Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac** 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans** 

Mrs. Eric Eweson 

Mr. Charles E. Exley, Jr. 

Mr. Charles T. Fisher III 

Hon. William H. G. FitzGerald 

Hon. John Clifford Folger 

Mrs. John Clifford Folger 

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Freed 

Rear Adm. and Mrs. Edwin Gaines 

Fullinwider** 
Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew 

Funt** 
Mrs. George A. Garrett 
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty 
Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr. 
Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould** 
Mr. Robert C. Graham, Sr. 
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Graham 
Mr. Jerome L. Greene** 
Mr. and Mrs. John Bradley Greene 



** Life Members. 



474 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Membership (Annual and Life) 

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway 

Mr. and Mrs. Alton B. Grimes 

Mrs. Lloyd P. Griscom 

Mr. John W. Gruber 

Mr. Leo S. Guthman 

Evelyn Annenberg Hall** 

Dr. Armand Hammer** 

Mr. Gordon Hanes 

Mrs. Richard Harkness** 

Mrs. W. Averell Harriman 

Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison 

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold** 

Mr. Joseph H. Hazen 

Lita Annenberg Hazen** 

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Healy III 

John and Lucia Heard 

Mr. Andrew Heiskell 

Mrs. Francis Tracy Henderson** 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Herring 

Mrs. Edith Mansfield Hills** 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn** 

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Holladay 

Janet A. Hooker** 

Mr. Allan Oakley Hunter 

Mr. R. L. Ireland III 

Hon. and Mrs. John N. Irwin II 

Mr. and Mrs. Sam Israel, Jr. 

Mr. George H. Jacobus 

Mr. and Mrs. George D. Jagels 

Mr. and Mrs. George Frederick 

Jewett, Jr. 
Mr. Samuel C. Johnson 
Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Jonsson 
Mrs. Virginia Kettering Kampf 
Mrs. Garfield Kass 
Mrs. Louise Page Kastner** 
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman** 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Kaufmann 
Mr. James F. Keenan 
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper, Jr. 
Hon. and Mrs. W. John Kenney 
Hon. and Mrs. Randolph A. Kidder 
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney 
Mr. F. M. Kirby 

Dr. Arthur A. and Marie L. Kirk** 
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Merrill Klein** 
Hon. and Mrs. Philip M. Klutznick 
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler** 
Mr. David Landau** 
Mr. and Mrs. R. Heath Larry 
Dr. Morris P. Leibovitz** 
Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger** 



Mrs. Sara L. Lepman** 

Mr. and Mrs. John Levey** 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey** 

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis** 

Mr. Harold F. Linder 

Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey 

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Logan** 

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord** 

Mr. H. M. Love 

Jack and Betty Lou Ludwick 

Mr. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr. 

Mrs. Edward Macauley 

Hon. and Mrs. George C. McGhee 

Hon. and Mrs. Robert M. McKinney** 

Mr. Malcolm MacNaugton 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald McNeely 

Mr. Henry S. McNeil 

Lt. Gen. and Mrs. Sam Maddux, Jr. 

Mrs. Robert A. Magowan** 

Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone** 

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard H. Marks 

Mr. and Mrs. J. Willard Marriott 

Hon. and Mrs. William McChesney 

Martin, Jr. 
Mr. Henry W. Meers 
Jack L. Messman** 
Dr. Ruben F. Mettler 
Mrs. Edmund C. Monell** 
Dr. Walter A. H. Mosmann** 
Fredric Mueller** 
Dr. Joseph L. Murray 
Marvin Murray, M.D., Ph.D.** 
Mrs. Nancy Brown Negley 
Dr. James Brooks Newbill** 
Hon. and Mrs. Paul H. Nitze 
Mr. and Mrs. John R. Norton III 
Hon. and Mrs. R. Henry Norweb** 
George L. Ohrstrom 
Mr. and Mrs. Ricard R. Ohrstrom 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow** 
Hon. Daniel Parker 
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson 
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Patton, Jr. 
Judge and Mrs. G. Burton Pearson** 
Mr. C. Wesley Peebles 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott 
Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury 
Mr. and Mrs. Louis F. Polk 
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Pope** 
Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Price 
Mrs. Abraham Rattner** 



** Life Members. 



Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 475 



Membership (Annual and Life) 

Mr. W. G. Reed 

Mr. John Paul Remensnyder** 

Hon. Frederick W. Richmond 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Ridder 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter T. Ridder 

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler** 

Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts 

Mr. Thomas M. Roberts** 

Mr. John J. Robertson 

Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton Robinson 

Mr. Ellis H. Robison** 

Dr. and Mrs. Milton L. Rock 

Mr. Laurance S. Rockefeller 

Judge Martin J. Roess** 

Richard G. Rogers, Jr.** 

Mrs. Helen Goodwin Rose** 

Hon. Kenneth Rush 

Mr. William R. Salomon 

Mr. and Mrs. B. Francis Saul II 

Mr. Harry I. Saul** 

Sen. and Mrs. Hugh Scott** 

Mr. and Mrs. William L. Searle 

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Seeligson, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Frates Seeligson 

Mrs. George M. Seignious II 

Mr. and Mrs. William M. Siegel 

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman** 

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard L. Silverstein 

Mr. David E. Skinner 

Mr. David G. Skinner 

Mrs. Frances F. Smith 

Hon. and Mrs. Gerard C. Smith 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith** 

Mrs. Otto Spaeth** 

Stuart M. Speiser** 

Mr. Benjamin Stack** 

Mr. Harvey G. Stack** 

Mr. Norman Stack** 

Dr. and Mrs. Richard F. S. Starr** 

Mrs. Edith C. Steinbright 



Miss Marilyn L. Steinbright 

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr.** 

Mr. David A. Sutherlund 

Mr. J. Fife Symington III 

Dr. Hans Syz** 

Mrs. Katharine Sergava Sznycer** 

The Drs. Yen and Julia Tan** 

Mr. Hobart Taylor, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Taylor, Jr.** 

Mrs. Edith Hale Thomas** 

Hon. and Mrs. Clark W. Thompson 

Richard W. Thomssen** 

Mr. F. A. Thorndike 

Mr. Bardyl R. Tirana** 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland 

Mr. and Mrs. Milton Turner** 

Mr. and Mrs. Wynant D. Vanderpool, 

Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. C. Woods Vest, Jr. 
Dr. and Mrs. Francis S. Walker** 
Mr. Raymond J. Wean, Jr. 
Mr. Richard W. Weatherhead** 
Mr. Charles D. Webster 
Mr. Harry Weese 
Mr. Caspar W. Weinberger 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Whiteley** 
Mr. Brayton Wilbur, Jr. 
Mrs. Leonard E. Wilkinson** 
Mr. Leonard John Wilkinson** 
Mrs. Thomas J. Williams** 
Mr. and Mrs. Morton H. Wilner 
Mr. Edward Foss Wilson 
Mr. and Mrs. David Wintermann 
Mr. and Mrs. Laurence C. Witten II** 
Mr. and Mrs. David O. Woodbury** 
Mrs. Stanley Woodward** 
Mr. James O. Wright 
Mr. and Mrs. James Y. M. Wu** 
Mr. Barry Yampol** 



CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIP 
Sustaining Members ($500 and above) 



Mr. and Mrs. Ellis B. Anderson 

Mr. and Mrs. Ned S. Arbury 

Mrs. L. M. Aroniss 

Amb. Antonio F. Azeredo da Silveira 

Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett 

E. Paul Charlap 

Arthur J. Curry 



Mr. Paul L. Davies, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. John J. Feeney 

Susan R. Fellows 

Col. Clarence D. Fried, Ret. 

Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey S. Fuller 

Rachel Gay 

Ms. Frances E. Gibson 



** Life Members. 



476 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Sustaining Members ($500 and 

Ms. Susan Goldman 

Mr. Abner J. Golieb 

Mr. W. J. Handelman 

Mr. and Mrs. Jerzy J. Hauptmann 

R. Bruce Hunter 

Robert E. Johnson 

Mr. A. Atwater Kent, Jr. 

Marilyn and William Lane 

Mr. Edmund W. Littlefield 

Mrs. John E. Long 



above) 

Mrs. Ruth Lord 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick P. Mascioli 

Dr. Raymond Mize, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Mountain, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard K. Preston 

Ms. Norma Reis 

Kenneth E. Shannon 

Mr. Barry Strauss 

Mrs. Arthur H. Sulzberger 

Mrs. Gardiner Symonds 



Sponsoring Members ($250 and 

Mr. and Mrs. David R. Anderson 

Myron Anderson 

G. J. Andrews 

Mr. and Mrs. R. S. Antes 

Mrs. Earl W. Barnes 

Winifred H. Bauer 

Mr. Ralph B. Beals 

Col. and Mrs. George C. Berger 

Mr. and Mrs. John H. Bernard 

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Bernett 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederic F. Bigio 

Frederick Blachly 

Mr. Christopher T. Blayney 

Mr. Robert K. Blum 

Mr. and Mrs. David H. Blumberg 

Dr. and Mrs. S. B. Brinkley 

Mr. F. Carroll Brown 

Patricia L. Brown 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick F. Burks 

Mr. and Mrs. James J. Burr 

Dr. and Mrs. J. A. Burwell 

Dr. Cesar A. Caceres 

Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Carrera 

Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Carten 

Mrs. Harold W. Cheel 

Mr. and Mrs. Page B. Clagett 

Mr. and Mrs. Jerald L. Clark 

Mr. W. C. Cobb 

Edward L. Cochrane, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Corbet 

Alexander D. Crary 

Mr. and Mrs. John D. Crow 

Capt. and Mrs. R. L. Daniels 

Mr. and Mrs. Keith Davis 

Mr. and Mrs. David R. Dear 

Arthur F. and Isadora Dellheim 

John Dimick 

Mr. Alden Lowell Doud 

Elinor and Harry Emlet 

Mr. and Mrs. M. F. Flaherty 

Albert A. Folop 

William C. Frogale 



above) 



M. F. George 

Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith 

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Green 

Richard P. Grill 

Morella R. Hansen 

Miss Annabelle Heath 

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Herman 

Nona G. Herndon 

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Hewitt 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Hinton 

Mrs. Raymond J. Howar 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Hubatka III 

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Hughes 

Mrs. S. T. Inglish 

W. D. Jackson 

Dr. John R. Jacoway 

Mr. Charles W. Jones 

Mrs. George C. Keiser 

Mrs. H. L. Kempner, Jr. 

Mr. Walter H. Kidd 

Dr. Robert Krasner 

Mr. E. C. Kubik 

Agatha Larson 

Hon. Robert E. Lee 

Mr. and Mrs. Finlay Lewis 

David H. Lloyd 

William A. Long 

Laura and Terrence McAuliffe 

Mr. and Mrs. Philip L. McHugh 

Ms. Billie G. Matheson 

Marcus and Wanda Mehtonen 

Dr. David B. Michaels 

Mr. and Mrs. E. Kirkbride Miller 

Mr. Charles W. Morris 

Jerry L. Mungo 

Comdr. and Mrs. Lester E. Ogilvy 

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald H. Patrick 

Helen Ann Patton 

Louis Peller 

William C. Penick 

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas S. Price 

Dr. Michael J. Reilly 



Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 477 



Sponsoring Members ($250 and 

Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Russo 

Mr. David Saunders 

Dr. James G. Schwade 

James G. Shakman 

Mr. Donald W. Shaw 

Mr. and Mrs. Gerard E. Shelton 

Mr. and Mrs. George E. Sherman 

Mr. and Mrs. Milton L. Shurr 

Dr. Lionel J. and Mrs. Janet M. 

Skidmore 
Mr. and Mrs. James Smulian 
Hugh M. and Marilyn M. South 
Mr. and Mrs. A. Stutzer 



above) — continued 

Mary S. Swanson 

Richard O. Swim 

David S. Turner 

S. J. Ungar Foundation 

Caroline E. Van Mason 

Mr. Dale E. Vaughn 

Mr. Peter C. White 

Mr. and Mrs. Grover C. White, Jr. 

Mrs. Vivian Wildman 

Ms. Louise Woerner 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Zorc 

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Zorthian 



Donor Members ($100 and above) 

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard L. Abel 

Lee Abramowitz 

Mrs. David C. Acheson 

Mr. Bruce F. Ackinclose, Jr. 

Mrs. Jobeth J. Adamson 

Mrs. Barbara Jean Ageno 

Dr. Nevin E. and Barbara L. Aiken 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald C. Alexander 

W. W. Alexander 

James E. Alford 

Mr. Robert L. Alford 

Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Allen 

Woody A. Allen 

Mrs. Carolyn Alper 

Frederick J. Altman 

Mr. and Mrs. Aaron M. Altschul 

Mr. and Mrs. H. Max Ammerman 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Amory 

Ann M. Anderson 

David and Nancy Anderson 

Mrs. E. T. Anderson 

Mrs. E. Ross Anderson 

Mr. and Mrs. Emmet D. Anderson 

Joseph R. Anderson 

Leslie E. Anderson 

Mr. and Mrs. John S. Anderson 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul B. Anderson 

Mrs. Paul S. Anderson 

Mr. and Mrs. William Y. Anderson 

Mrs. John W. Anderson II 

Miss Marcia Ann Appel 

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Arbib 

John D. Archbold 

Mr. and Mrs. Liston Archer 

John J., Mary F., and Guy M. Arcuri 

Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Arneson, Jr. 

Col. and Mrs. Arpod Artwohl 

Joseph S. Asin 

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Auchincloss 



Dr. Doris B. Autry 

Mr. Fred C. Babcock 

Mildred Bach 

Mr. and Mrs. Norman G. Bach 

Morton W. and Joyce S. Bachrach 

Dorothy and Harold Baer 

Mr. George G. Baetz 

Dr. Bernard W. Bail 

Merrily Baird 

Mr. and Mrs. Ernesto Baizan 

Geraldine R. Baker 

Mr. Warren Baker 

Dr. and Mrs. H. H. Balch, Jr. 

Joseph J. and Elizabeth B. Ball 

Leo T. Barber, Jr. 

Mr. Robert D. Barclay 

Dr. and Mrs. Charles O. Barker 

Mr. Jean L. Barker 

Jeffrey O. and Norma H. Barnes 

Andrew Barr 

Ms. Janine F. Barre 

Capt. Celia Barteau 

John P. Bartlett 

W. R. Barwick 

Ralph S. and Jeanne Bass 

Mr. James Bateman 

Mrs. Alice G. Bauer 

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene W. Baxter 

Mr. J. Fred Beamer 

Mr. Donald R. Bean 

Mr. and Mrs. William Bean 

Colleen and Hunter Beaumon* 

Eugene H. Beck 

Ms. Janet T. Beck 

Hon. and Mrs. Ralph L. Becker 

Mr. and Mrs. William L. Becker 

Arnold R. Beckhardt 

Charles Beer 

Dr. Bruce A. Bell 



478 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and a 

Mrs. Jack Bender 

Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Benedict 

William R. Benham 

Mrs. Mills Bennett 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Benson 

Lt. Col. S. Woodruff Bentley 

Merrill Berkley 

Samuel W. Bernheimer 

Mr. and Mrs. Max N. Berry 

Paula and Steven Bershader 

Margaret Bethany 

L. W. Bill 

Mrs. A. F. Binney 

Mr. and Mrs. F. Douglas Birdzell 

Mr. H. Harold Bishop 

Gerald and Sara Bjorge 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Eric Black 

Mr. John L. Black 

Mrs. Page Blackstock 

Mr. William C. Blanks 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Blatchford 

Col. and Mrs. William M. Blatt 

Mr. and Mrs. Allen A. H. Blessman 

Mr. Harrye Blethroad 

James B. Blinkoff 

Frank Bliss, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Huntington Block 

Mr. Howard C. Blossom 

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon H. Blume 

William W. Blunt, Jr. 

Mrs. Julian S. Boardman 

Mr. and Mrs. D. L. Bodenhamer 

Robert F. Bodroghy 

Ms. Marie-Therese Boever 

Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Bogan 

Mr. B. P. Bole, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Mel H. Bolster 

Victor L. and Barbara J. Bonat 

Mr. and Mrs. James C. H. Bonbright 

Joan V. Bonk 

Mr. and Mrs. Philip Bonsai 

Mr. Richard E. Bonsib 

E. Bordenet, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. F. Borowsky 

Ms. Barbara C. Bottarini 

C. Joseph Bowdring 

Steven R. and Diana T. Bowen 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul A. Bowles 

Emily M. and Sidney Boxer 

John and Patricia Boyd and Family 

Mr. and Mrs. D. Wade Boyer 

Eugenie R. Bradford 

Mr. and Mrs. Calvin Brantlev 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Brassier 

Mr. Harold H. Bredell 



hove) — continued 

Mr. J. Bruce Bredin 

Terence R. and Vivien C. Brewer 

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen B. Brickel 

John B. Bricker 

Robert L. Bridges 

Dr. and Mrs. Clifton H. Briggs 

Ms. Dorothea T. Bristol 

Mr. Ronald C. Britt 

Weldon C. and Marthasu K. Britton 

Mr. Harvey K. Brock 

Mrs. George H. Brodie 

Mr. Michael Bromwich 

John A. Bross 

Mrs. Maude E. Brown 

Mr. Preston Brown 

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph H. Brown 

Guy J. Brunacci 

Mrs. Stephen C. Bruno 

Anne Brunsdale 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick B. Bryant 

Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Buck 

Mr. and Mrs. William A. Buell 

Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Buhler 

Edward P. Bullock 

Alfred F. Buonaguro 

Hon. William A. M. Burden 

Mr. and Mrs. Townsend Burden III 

Mr. James M. Burger 

Mrs. Julia T. Burlen 

Mrs. Poe Burling 

Mr. and Mrs. Harry W. Burns 

Richard Scott Burow 

Joseph Burton 

Mr. and Mrs. Thompson H. Butz 

Rex R. Byerly 

Mr. E. T. Byram 

Lorena Smith Cabbaniss 

G. W. Cage, M.D. 

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Callahan 

Mr. G. W. Callender 

Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Campbell 

William D. Campbell 

Mr. Frank A. Campini 

Capt. and Mrs. Rodion Cantacuzone 

Philip L. Cantelon 

Francis Caponegro, Jr., M.D. 

William I. Cargo 

Mr. and Mrs. Ray Carlisle 

Mr. and Mrs. Woolsey Carmalt 

Rear Adm. and Mrs. Ralph H. 

Carnahan 
Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton Carothers 
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth S. Carpenter 
Richard W. Carr 
Oliver T. Carr, Jr. 



Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 479 



DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and above)— continued 



Philip L. Carret 

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel O. Carson, Jr. 

Col. Douglas H. Carter 

Thomas K. Carter 

Mr. Victor Cascella 

Mrs. Robert A. Cashell 

Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Cashen II 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Cate 

Kevin John and Maria Luisa Catt 

Joseph and Margaret Chachkin 

Dr. David Challinor 

Mr. Christopher Chapin 

Rose May and Allyn D. Chapman 

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph V. Charyk 

Joel Chaseman 

Mr. and Mrs. Guiseppe Checchi 

Alvin K. H. and Irene Chee 

Mr. and Mrs. Boris E. Cherney 

Mr. and Mrs. Timothy W. Childs 

Dr. Young Soo Choi 

Mr. Harold C. Choitz 

Priscilla M. Christy 

Dr. Thomas M. Chused 

Mr. and Mrs. Ramon L. Cilimberg 

John C. Cini 

Mrs. Edith B. and C. R. Clark 

Mr. H. Lawrence Clark 

Patricia D. W. Clark 

Roland E. Clark 

Le Mon Clark, M.D. 

Mr. Arthur D. Clarke 

Mrs. Jean G. Clarke 

Sumner N. Clarren 

Ms. Dorothy I. Cleland 

Mrs. Thomas K. Cline 

Ane Clint 

Capt. and Mrs. Richard Cobb 

Dr. and Mrs. David G. Cogan 

Ms. Nancy Coggins 

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Cohen 

Bertram M. Cohen 

Col. Russell C. Coile 

Miss Barbara Colbron 

Mr. Arthur J. Collingsworth 

Mrs. James M. Collins 

Margaret S. Collins 

Virginia M. Collins 

T. Clyde Collins, Jr. 

A. R. Colon 

Mr. and Mrs. John Colvin 

Josephine A. Conley 

Mrs. Ethel Conlisk 

Dr. Richard Lee Conn 

Dr. George W. Conner 

Michael M. Conrad, Col. USAF, (Ret.) 



Mr. Charles W. Consolvo 

Mr. William R. Conte 

Mr. Edward C. Cook 

Mrs. Philip S. Cook 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Cook 

Arthur Copertino 

Mr. and Mrs. Jos. C. Cornwall 

Elizabeth R. Corson 

Ralph J. and Debbie Coselli 

Mr. John Edward Cottongim 

Mrs. Olivia W. Coulter 

Bentley Courtney, Col. AUS (Ret.) 

Mr. and Mrs. Howard V. Covell 

L. Gray Cowan 

Mrs. Logan O. Cowgill 

Mrs. W. C. Cox 

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Crabtree 

Mr. James R. Cramblett 

Fritz J. Cramer, M.D. 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Crews 

Mrs. Thomas E. Crocker 

Mrs. Richard S. Cross 

Mrs. Alice Cueva 

Dr. and Mrs. W. T. Cunningham 

Mrs. Catherine G. Curran 

Ms. Ida D. Cutherbertson 

Natalie M. Cutler 

Mr. J. Robert Cutter 

William I. Daniels 

Lt. Comdr. David L. Daniels, USN 

Helen Darling 

Mr. Guenter Daub 

Barry C. Davis 

Mr. and Mrs. F. Elwood Davis 

Olivia Davis 

Evelyn Y. Davis 

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce L. Davis, Jr. 

Mrs. Alva A. Dawson 

Mr. and Mrs. D. C. Dawson 

E. A. Dawson 

Mr. Anthony J. De Marco, Jr. 

Silvester De Tomasis 

Mr. Alan L. Dean 

Dalene B. and Joseph E. Dean 

Mr. Daniel A. Deatrich 

Ralph H. Deckelbaum 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Decou 

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne Richard 

Delaney 
Capt. and Mrs. Victor Delano 
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Dellon 
Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Hilliard Dennis 
Ms. Linda Desmarais 
Mrs. Gladys B. Devlin 



480 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and above)— continued 



Charles F. Dewald 

Mr. and Mrs. Matthew S. Dick, Jr. 

Phil Dickey 

James L. Dietz 

Dr. Henry Dillon 

Mr. Nicholas Dinos 

Mr. and Mrs. Allen T. Dittmann 

Patricia Dix, M.D. 

Walter W. Doescher 

Austin F. Dohrman, Jr. 

George Arntzen Doole 

James A Dorsch 

Maryanna Dotson, M.D. 

Mr. and Mrs. T. M. Douglas 

Doris R. Drake 

Mrs. Frances E. Draper 

Roburt Andre Dumas, Sr. 

Lucia J. Dunham 

Helen Jean Arthur Dunn 

Mr. and Mrs. H. Stewart Dunn, Jr. 

Vernon J. Dwyer 

Mr. and Mrs. Henry L. Dye 

Dr. Elizabeth M. Earley 

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Eger 

Lawrence A. Ehrhart 

Mrs. Robert Ehrke 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Eichholz 

Comdr. and Mrs. Harvey Eikel 

Albert N. Eisenberg 

Dr. and Mrs. Gilbert M. Eisner 

C. Burke Elbrick 

Dr. and Mrs. Fred A. Elder 

Mrs. Leila Eley 

Mr. F. H. Ellenberger 

Mr. and Mrs. A. S. (Tex) Elliott 

Mrs. Gladys Burian Else 

Mr. George M. Elsey 

Mr. C. McDonald England 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard England 

Mr. and Mrs. Pleasanton H. Ennis 

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen B. Epifano 

Barry H. Epstein, M.D. 

Ann E. Erdman 

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Escherich 

Mr. Robert Esposito 

Mr. and Mrs. John G. Esswein 

Mrs. Ruthild Panten Eustis 

Mr. and Mrs. James G. Evans, Jr. 

Mr. Burton N. Everett 

Everett J. Long 

Mrs. Herbert P. Fales 

Mr. Charles L. Farbstein 

Ms. Marilyn Farrand 

James P. Farrell 

Patricia C. Farrell 



J. S. Farrington 

Richard Fay 

Col. and Mrs. J. J. Felmley 

Miss Patricia Fenton 

Mr. and Mrs. D. R. Fesler 

Roy Feuchter 

Mr. Marshall Field 

Robert C. and Karen J. Fink 

James P. Finn 

Mr. and Mrs. Kimball C. Firestone 

Henry Fischbach 

Miss Eleanor P. Fischer 

Mr. and Mrs. Henry G. Fischer 

Mr. and Mrs. S. Greenhoot Fischer 

John A. Fischer, M.D. 

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard L. Fischman 

Ronald and Barbara Fitzgerald 

Mr. Thomas R. Flagg 

J. Fleischman 

Mr. and Mrs. Philip V. Fleming 

Robert W. Fleming 

Dennis M. Flemons 

Mr. and Mrs. M. K. Fleschner 

David Fogelson 

Mr. and Mrs. Lee M. Folger 

Mr. and Mrs. Oliver Harold Folk 

John A. Ford, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Jay Foreman 

Miss Helen E. Forshier 

Mr. James H. Forsyth 

Jon David Francis 

Mr. and Mrs. Lucius L. Free 

Robert Freeburg 

Randolph and Mafalda French 

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur H. Fribourg 

Arthur D. and Barbara B. Friedman 

Mrs. Barbara Friz 

Mr. Douglas Wayne Fuller 

Mr. and Mrs. K. Georg Gabriel 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Gaffhey 

Mr. Richard O. Gale 

Mrs. Charles E. Gamper 

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Gantt 

Edwin F. Garbe 

Mr. and Mrs. Lion Gardiner 

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Gardner 

C. Donald Garrett 

Mrs. Virginia B. Garvey 

Mr. T. Jack Gary, Jr. 

Larry Gaynes 

Ms. Celia Gazdar 

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Geller 

Samuel Geller 

Nancy L. George 



Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 481 



DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and 

Mr. Arthur F. Gerding 

Frances Giacobbe 

William H. Gibbons 

Mr. David H. Gift 

Miss Alice L. Giles 

Douglas J. and Carol Giles 

Wallace E. Giles 

Robert Henry Gills 

Mrs. E. W. Glascock 

Dr. Sanford A. Glazer 

Mr. and Mrs. T. K. Glennan 

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Goad 

Mrs. John H. Godfrey 

Miss Nancy A. Goff 

Mr. and Mrs. Henry H. Goldberg 

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert A. Goldberg 

Mr. B. J. Goldfarb 

Mrs. Eliane A. Goldman 

Susan S. and Richard W. Goldman 

Herbert A. Goldsmith, Jr. 

Col. and Mrs. Julius Goldstein 

Dr. Everett J. Gordon 

Mrs. Lois R. Gordon 

Richard E. Gorozdos 

Mr. and Mrs. Fred Gould 

Mr. Mitchell Gould 

Mr. and Mrs. William Gouldsbury 

Mrs. Katharine Graham 

Capt. and Mrs. C. A. Grandjean 

Raymond E. Grant 

Mr. Harold D. Grant, Jr. 

Mrs. Herbert C. Gravely, Jr. 

Dr. Sheila H. Gray 

Mr. Thomas A. Green 

Hix H. Green, Jr. 

David J. Greenburg 

Marc Greenwald, M.D. 

Mr. and Mrs. T. Vernon Greer 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph B. Gregg 

Miss Gretchen Grieb 

Mr. Richard B. Griffin, Jr. 

Robert Groberg 

Drs. Christian and Carol Gronbeck 

Dr. and Mrs. C. D. Groover 

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick W. Gross 

Dr. Robert E. Gross 

Mrs. Helen K. Groves 

Henrietta R. Gula 

Helena Gunnarsson 

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Guttag 

H. Robert and Suzanne Guy 

Miss Barbara Guzy 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick J. Haas 

Lonn C. Haas 

Mrs. Walter A. Haas 



above) — continued 

Samuel L. Hack 

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin M. Hackenberg 

Richard B. Hacker 

Theodore J. Hadraba, Jr. 

Louis P. Haffer 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Hagemeyer 

Elizabeth P. Hagen 

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Hahn, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest V. Hallberg, Jr. 

Mrs. Joellen Hallmark 

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Halpern 

Ms. Elizabeth C. Ham 

Dr. and Mrs. Allen Hamburg 

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome S. Hamerman 

Mr. and Mrs. Elwood C. Hamsher 

Virginia W. Hanks 

Mr. and Mrs. Terrance Hanold 

Mr. Stafford Hansell 

Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Hansen 

Dorcas Hardin 

Mr. and Mrs. William L. Harding 

Hardy Hargreaves 

Mr. Gilbert R. Harlan 

Ms. Helen Leale Harper, Jr. 

Robert C. Harris 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Harris 

William J. Harris, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Byron E. Harrison 

George A. Hatzes, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. David S. Hawkins 

Patrick Hayes 

Thomas Hays 

Mr. Frank R. Heath 

Mr. and Mrs. George L. Hebben 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Hedlund 

Mr. Frederick H. Heierding 

Judith B. Heimann 

Col. and Mrs. Robert D. Heinl, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Martin D. Held 

Alverne S. Hellenthal 

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Heller 

Mr. and Mrs. C. T. Hellmuth 

Ralph D. Helwig 

Jeffrey L. Hendry 

Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Henry, Jr. 

Geri L. and Jack W. Henry, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Alan H. Herman, Jr. 

Ms. Jane E. Herrmann 

Mr. and Mrs. Stuart E. Hersh 

Earl C. Hertenstein 

Mr. and Mrs. George J. Hess 

Dr. and Mrs. R. R. Hessberg 

Mr. Richard F. Hewett 

Ms. Frankie Hewitt 

Robert A. Hicks 



482 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and 

Mr. Alan R. Hill 

Douglas S. Hill 

Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan B. Hill 

Mr. Louis Hilton 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Hinchcliff 

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Hines 

Mr. Mas E. Hironaka 

Stanley R. Hirsch 

Mrs. W. Gifford Hoag 

Mr. and Mrs. Maurice A. Hoard 

E. Roberts Hofsas 

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Holden 

Mr. and Mrs. Henry C. Holle 

Mr. and Mrs. George B. Holmes 

Jesse H. Holmes 

Samuel C. O. and Jane E. M. Holt 

Mr. and Mrs. Gary L. Hong 

Mr. an Mrs. Clarence G. Hoop 

Mr. and Mrs. Townsend Hoopes 

Anthony and Judith Hope 

Mr. and Mrs. Earl Hopper 

William E. Horn 

Mr. John K. Hoskinson 

Mr. Arthur A. Hougton, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence R. Houston 

Frederic K. Howard 

Mrs. A. C. Howell 

Mr. Thomas C. Howell 

Ms. Judith A. Howlett 

Dr. and Mrs. John Hoyle 

Dr. Sam W. Huddleston 

Mr. and Mrs. George N. Hudson 

Mrs. Hugo G. Huettig, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Hughes 

Mrs. E. H. Hulsey 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter J. Hunt 

William R. Hunter 

Claude D. Hurd 

John D. Hurley 

Mr. and Mrs. F. Irving Hutchins 

Ms. Marjorie P. Hutchinson 

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Hyland 

Mrs. Vera C. Hyman 

Mr. and Mrs. William K. Ince 

Dr. and Mrs. N. S. Irey 

Dr. and Mrs. Jeffrey J. Irving 

Mrs. Mary Ellen Irwin 

Michael R. Irwin 

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis M. Isaacs, Jr. 

Ms. Sheila Isham 

Edward Z. Israel 

Terrence Jach 

Dr. and Mrs. Michael A. Jackson 

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Jacobsen 

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Jacobsen 



above) — continued 

Ms. Sharon Jacques 

Mr. Steven R. Jaffe 

Dr. Glenn James 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Jaske 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald W. Jeffries 

J. Rukin Jelks, Jr. 

David B. Jenkins 

Mrs. Dorothy Jennett 

Mrs. Gerald J. Jewell 

Lt. Col. Madeline P. Jims 

Mrs. E. W. Johnson 

Miss Eleanor H. Johnson 

Mary E. Johnson 

Col. and Mrs. F. W. Johnson, Jr. 

John R. Johnson, Jr. 

Miss Charlotte Jones 

Mr. James E. Jones 

Mr. and Mrs. Rollan L. Jones 

William H. Jones, Jr. 

Miss Elizabeth Jorzick 

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Joseph 

A. J. Julicher Associates 

Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Jung 

John M. Kalbermatten 

Linda H. Kamm 

Mr. Peter Kammeyer 

Dr. and Mrs. John J. Kane 

Mr. Burke Kaplan 

Mr. and Mrs. Peter E. Kaplan 

Stuart E. and Evelyn Karu 

Mrs. Charles L. Kaufmann 

Mr. Peter S. Kaufmann 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. Kay 

Mr. John L. Keatts 

Mr. and Mrs. Earl W. Keegan 

Mr. Thomas C. Keegan 

Mr. and Mrs. Harold Keegstra 

Mr. Ronald G. Keeping 

J. R. Keiper, Jr. 

Mr. Robert E. Keiter 

Mr. and Mrs. G. J. Kelly 

Harris L. Kempner 

Louisa L. Kennedy 

Andrew A. Kerhulas, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur H. Keyes, Jr. 

Thomas C. Kibirsky 

John Kicak 

Marjorie J. Kidd 

Linda H. Kight 

Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Kilcarr 

Miss Sharyn Kilderry 

Ms. A. Lorraine Killion 

Mr. Charles T. Kindsvatter 

Mr. George H. Kinkel 

Mr. and Mrs. Philip C. Kirby 



Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 483 



DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and above)— continued 



Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Kirchheimer 

Lawrence Kirstein 

Mrs. Helen Klages 

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Klein 

Hon. and Mrs. Herbert W. Klotz 

Mrs. Virginia H. Knauer 

Mr. and Mrs. J. K. Knee 

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur S. Knox 

Jean R. Knutsen 

Mrs. Edgar Kobak 

Mr. Steven P. Koch 

Dr. and Mrs. Rolf A. Koehler 

Robert W. Koopman 

Anne Kopmeier 

David E. Koranek 

Mr. Jack Korber 

Dr. and Mrs. M. C. Korengold 

Mr. and Mrs. Fritz- Allen Korth 

Laurence E. Korvvin 

Larry, Barb, and Kara Koziarz 

Albert Kramer 

Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Kranker 

Mr. Barton Krawetz 

Mrs. David L. Kreeger 

Edward L. Krejny 

Mr. Herbert C. Krieger 

Ms. Janet Anastacia Krombar 

Werner J. Kronstein 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph R. Krystof 

Mr. Frank A. Kugeler 

Mr. Stanley J. Kuliczkowski 

Miss Suzanne Kuser 

Mr. Richard J. Kuzman 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter L. Day, Jr. 

Judge and Mrs. Marion C. Ladwig 

Mr. Albert J. Laflam 

Mrs. Sidney K. Lafoon 

Mr. Robert W. Lagler 

Mr. Joseph S. Lamb 

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel J. Lanahan 

Mr. and Mrs. A. Scheffer Lang 

Mr. and Mrs. Chiswell D. Langhorne, 

Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony A Lapham 
Mr. and Mrs. Felix J. Lapinski 
Mr. and Mrs. Vernon W. Larsen 
Dr. and Mrs. K. C. Latven 
Mr. Robert F. Law 
Walter E. Lawrinson, M.D. 
Mr. Sperry Lea 
Wilfred M. Leatherwood, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence F. Ledebur 
Mr. and Mrs. Herman M. Ledonne 
Charles W. Lee 
Mrs. Florence J. Lee 



James A. Lee 

Marion S. Leech 

Dr. and Mrs. Lasalle D. LeFall, Jr. 

Mr. George Lehnen III 

Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman 

Foundation, Inc. 
Dr. and Mrs. R. Leidelmeyer 
Mr. William Leier 
Ms. Lavinia Lemon 
Seymour B. Lenz 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Lenzzini 
Mr. and Mrs. H. I. Leon 
Mrs. Ethelynne H. Leonard 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Leonard 
Hon. William Leonhart 
Monica Lesko 
Helen S. Lessin 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward H. Levi 
Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Levi 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Levine 
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest E. Lewis 
H. D. Lewis 
Dr. Stephen Li 

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph Lichtenberg 
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred B. Lichtenstein 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Liebhardt 
Elliot R. Lief 
Richard M. Lindenauer 
Frank W. Lindenberger 
Mr. R. Robert Linowes 
Mrs. Eunice K. Lipkowitz 
Mr. and Mrs. Stacy B. Lloyd III 
Kathleen E. Lloyd, M.D. 
Mr. and Mrs. Millington Lockwood 
John Lodge 

Mr. and Mrs. William W. Loftin 
Mr. and Mrs. R. Logan 
Diana J. Logsdon 

Mr. and Mrs. James P. Londergan, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Long 
Ernie Loomis 
Mr. Jeffrey A. Loos 
Robert K. Lootens 
Mrs. Ricard K. Louden 
P. H. Loughlin III 

Roger H. V. and Claudine G. Lourie 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Lovegren 
Charles L. Lowery 
John R. Lowry 
Harry Lunn 

Edward and Donna Lynch 
Margaret R. Lynch 
Mr. and Mrs. John A. L. Lyons 
Janet C. McCaa 
Ms. Jane H. McCafferty 



484 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and a 

Mr. and Mrs. George W. McCagg, Jr. 

June L. McCalla 

Violet McCandlish 

R. McCann, M.D. 

E. V. McCauley 

Mrs. Sarah H. McClain 

Mr. Matthew B. McCullough 

Mrs. Betsy P. McDargh 

Alan Miles MacDougall 

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Macdonald 

Dan and Marge Maceda 

James P. McGranery, Jr. 

Hugh F. McGrath 

Dr. and Mrs. John J. McGrath 

Mr. and Mrs. Clark MacGregor 

John S. Mclnnes 

Malcom A. Maclntire 

Marian S. Maclntyre 

Anthony J. Maciorowski 

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas W. McKay 

Col. James E. Macklin 

Mr. and Mrs. J. T. McLane 

Dr. and Mrs. Earl N. McLeod 

Helen F. Macmillan 

W. C. McNeal 

Mr. R. A. McReynolds 

Mr. Bernard S. Macsherry 

Daniel J. McTeague 

Mr. and Mrs. A. Martin Macy 

Mrs. J. Noel Macy 

Mrs. Louise Mann Madden 

Rex A. Maddox 

Alfred C. Maevis 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Maffitt 

Mrs. Joan B. Maguire 

Mr. Girard T. Malanka 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Maldegen 

Thomas P. Maloney 

Beverly Mandil 

E. S. and Jean C. Mangiaficc 
Robert P. Mann 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mannes 
Mr. E. Manuel Manning 
Mrs. Charles F. Manov 
Mrs. John C. Mansfield 
Mr. Edward Marks 
Mrs. R. A. Mermet 

F. E. Mars, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew W. Marshall 

Anita and Franz R. Marshall 

Barton A. and Barbara H. Marshall 

R. N. Marshall 

Mrs. Elizabeth Martin 

Mr. and Mrs. Guy Martin 

Mr. M. S. Martin 



hove) — continued 

William C. Martin, Jr. 

Miss Priscilla Mason 

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher F. Masters 

Dr. and Mrs. Glenn B. Mather 

Mrs. Elbert G. Mathews 

Mrs. G. L. Mathews 

Mr. W. E. Matthews, Jr. 

Mrs. Ellen P. Maurice 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Maxwell 

Dr. William B. May 

Dr. and Mrs. Francis Mayle, Jr. 

Hannah and Michael E. Mazer 

Mr. Sidney Meeks 

Miss Ruth L. A. Meixner 

Kenneth E. Melson 

Mr. and Mrs. E. Mercy, Jr. 

William R. Merriam 

Comdr. and Mrs. Hugh Anthony 

Merrill 
Mr. Ted S. Merrill 
Mrs. Kathryn Mervenne 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry L. Meyer 
R. J. Mikyska 

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon K. Milestone 
Grace Milgram 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Miller 
Mr. and Ms. Harold A. Miller 
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert E. Miller 
L. Allen and Cindy R. Miller 
Linda B. and Marc E. Miller 
Mason E. Miller 
R. Eric Miller 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter C. Miller 
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel M. Millet 
Robert J. Millstone 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert N. Minutillo 
Mr. and Mrs. Glenn J. Mischel 
Mr. Timothy Mitchell 
Robert M. Moliter 
Col. (USAF, Ret.) and Mrs. Kenneth 

L. Moll 
J. Montgomery 
Ms. Wendy L. Montgomery 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Cotton Moore 
Mrs. E. P. Moore 
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Moore 
Mr. and Mrs. J. Edward Moore 
Richard H. Moore 
Ann K. and Cecilio J. Morales 
Mrs. Theda A. Moreno 
Margaret Morgan 
Mrs. Marion K. Morgan 
William A. Morgan 
Firth Morris 
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen V. C. Morris 



Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 485 



DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and a 

Mr. John Burton Mott 

Mr. Terrance J. Mueller 

Mr. and Mrs. Dapray Muir 

Mrs. Stanley N. Muirhead 

Mr. and Mrs. Carl J. Mulert, Jr. 

William Mullinix, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Muncy 

G. R. Munger 

Burnaby Munson 

John F. Murphy 

Frank J. Murphy, M.D. 

Mr. Edmund L. Murray 

Miss Lucile Myers 

Richard Needelman 

Arthur H. Nelson 

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce H. Nelson 

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce C. Netschert 

Mrs. Robert E. Newby 

Richard A. Newlin 

William and Louisa Newlin 

Dr. and Mrs. Dwight W. Newman 

Gary Ray Newport 

Thomas S. Nichols 

Mr. Robert F. Nicholson 

Henry and Carol Nickel 

Thomas P. Nigra, M.D. 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A Nilcs 

Carl F. Norden 

Glenn and Judith Nordin 

Mr. Gerson Nordlinger, Jr. 

Howard and Rose Norseth 

Mr. and Mrs. Jack R. Norwood 

Mr. and Mrs. Michael P. Novelli 

M. Nussbaum 

Dennis F. O'Brien 

Robert O'Brien 

Patricia H. O'Connor 

Mr. Robert M. O'Connor 

Mr. William J. O'Connor, Jr. 

Paul T. and Nancy F. O'Day 

Thomas A. and Marie O'Day 

Marilyn O'Harrow 

Mrs. John O'Master 

Grace and Jerry O'Regan 

Dr. Carlos E. Odiaga 

Dr. and Mrs. Edward C. Oldfield III 

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds 

Mr. Nathan H. Olshan 

Joseph A. Ondrejko 

Robert Orben 

Mr. and Mrs. William E. Oriol 

Mr. and Mrs. Forrest E. Orr 

Mr. and Mrs. E. G. Osbourne 

David and Irene Osterman 

Gayil Nails Overholser 



hove) — continued 

Ms. Bethea Owen 

Mrs. Dudley Owen 

Mrs. Henry S. Owens 

Mr. Thomas L. Owens 

J. C. Pace 

Joan Bingham Packard 

Arnold E. Palmer 

David S. and Sarah C. Palmer 

Comdr. Everett A. Parke, USN 

Alice Mengel Parker 

Mrs. Thornton J. Parker, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Parnell, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. David T. Parry 

Mr. and Mrs. Ray Patrick 

Kenneth W. Patrum 

Dr. Daniel Y. Patterson 

Ms. Shirley Carter Patterson 

Miss Ruth Uppercu Paul 

Dr. Fred Payne 

Mr. and Mrs. Harry A. Paynter 

Raymond Pearlstine 

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Walter Peltason 

Edmund Pendleton 

Hon. and Mrs. Charles Percy 

Mr. Francis I. Perier 

Samuel T. Perkins 

Mrs. Joan I. Perna 

Jacqueline Perry 

James P. Perry 

Ralph A. Pesiri, M.D. 

Mr. George A. Peterson 

Ms. Samanlha A. Peterson 

J. C. Petricciani, M.D. 

W. Philip, M.D. 

Hon. and Mrs. Christopher H. Phillips 

Mrs. Alys E. Phreaner 

Rae H. Pickrel 

Jacqueline Pierce 

Mildred H. Pierce 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Pincus 

Lucy W. Pirtle 

Mr. and Mrs. Steuart Pittman 

Mr. and Mrs. Harry M. Plotkin 

Welch Pogue 

Mr. and Mrs. L. B. Polsky 

Mr. and Mrs. Reuben Pomerantz 

Doris D. Poole 

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight J. Porter 

Mrs. Prentice Porter 

Bruce S. Post 

John N. Postak 

Alan W. Postlethwaite 

Ronald G. Precup 

Mrs. Richard Preece 

Mr. and Mrs. John Prenzel 



486 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and 

Dorothy B. Preslar 

Col. and Mrs. William M. Preston 

Mrs. Charles P. Price 

Norville Reid Price 

Mr. Theodore W. Price 

Dr. and Mrs. Jerold Principato 

Mrs. Dow Puckett 

Inez L. Pulver 

Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Purnell 

Mr. Charles M. Quarre 

Mr. Cyrus J. Quinn 

Vivian R. Rabineau 

Ms. Carole Rader 

John B. Radner 

Dr. and Mrs. Ernest G. Rafey 

Mr. and Mrs. Mozart G. Ratner 

Charles F. Rattigan 

William Rausch 

Isabel M. Rea 

Mr. and Mrs. Michael M. Rea 

Eugene L. Reagan 

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Reckmeyer 

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Rector 

Mr. and Mrs. H. E. Redmon 

Captain and Mrs. Dale C. Reed 

Henry Reed 

Douglas F. Reeves 

Robert E. and Barbara H. Reich 

Mr. Norman E. Reid 

Quentin L. Reutershaw 

Helen L. Reynolds 

Mr. Frank C. Reynolds, Jr. 

Barbara Rhodes 

Don Rhodes 

Joseph A. Rice 

Ronald P. Rich 

B. A. Richmond 
Mrs. Betty E. Ridout 
Eugene W. Rieder 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Rinehart 

Ms. Lorraine D. Rivard 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. Robb 

Dr. Howard S. Robbins 

Jack and Constance Robbins 

Ms. Jane F. Roberts 

Ms. Mary M. Roberts 

Mrs. David Roberts III 

Dr. Max Robinowitz 

Mr. James E. Robins 

Walter P. Robinson, Jr. 

C. O'Neil Rogers 
Mrs. Claire V. Rogers 

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Rogers 
Mr. and Mrs. Howard L. Rohr 
Hon. Fred B. and Mrs. Rooney 



above) — continued 

Gary D. Rosch 

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest T. Rose 

Irving Rose 

Mr. Gerald A. Rosen 

Seymour and Elizabeth Rosen 

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey Rosenbaum 

Maurice Rosenberg 

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel J. Rosenfeld 

Benjamin J. Rosenthal 

Mr. R. M. Rosenthal 

Mr. Ray W. Rosevear 

Julius Ross 

Arnold Rothstein 

Frances F. Rowan 

Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Rowe 

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Rowe, Jr. 

Randi Rubovits-Seitz, M.D. 

Mr. Todd D. Rudd 

Dr. and Mrs. Daniel Ruge 

Peter T. and Nancy F. Russell 

Dr. and Mrs. Lester A. Russin 

Georjean and Alan Rust 

Dr. and Mrs. Edward C Ruth 

Mr. and Mrs. Allan J. Ryan 

John M. and Madeline S. Ryan 

Mr. Joseph J. Ryan 

Mr. and Mrs. Bennett Y. Ryan, Sr. 

Mr. Wayne D. Rydberg 

Ms. Penelope S. Rytter 

Henry Sabatell 

Dr. and Mrs. Abner Sachs 

Mr. and Mrs. Kelsey Saint 

Robert Sanabria 

J. Jeff Sandel 

Capt. and Mrs. Ben T. Sanders 

Dorothy B. Sandleman 

Virginia and Robert Santucci 

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Sapienza 

Mr. Milton C. Sappe 

Frances L. Saran 

Hon. John C. Satterthwaite 

Mr. Ronald L. Sawyer 

Donald R. and Mary C. Saylor 

Francis B. Sayre 

Harrison S. Sayre 

Mr. Ernst M. Schaefer 

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Schaefer 

Mr. and Mrs. John H. Schafer 

Mr. and Mrs. Tony Schall 

Hon. and Mrs. James H. Scheuer 

Dr. Basil A. Schiff 

Joseph A. Schifrin 

Miss Matilda P. Schlicht 

Col. and Mrs. William P. Schneider 

Mr. and Mrs. Marvin Schneiderman 



Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 487 



DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and 

Jacques J. Schoch 

Florene M. Schoenborn 

Mr. H. J. Schonblom 

Mr. Bernard Schoninger 

Mr. Dick Schubert 

Mr. and Mrs. Emanuel Shugar 

Laura D. Schuldt 

Lloyd E. Schuster 

Beldon D. and Corine G. Scott 

Mr. C. W. Scott 

J. Scott 

James J. Scott 

T. G. Scuderi 

Miss Carolynne Seeman 

David A. Seibold 

Jean T. Seidenstein 

Mr. Howard R. Seifried 

Richard J. Sekerka 

Hortense Self 

Ivan M. Selig 

Sherman J. Sexton 

Miss Ronna Sharp 

George and Alison Sharpe 

Dr. Carol Sheridan 

Karen Sherman 

Mr. and Mrs. William W. Sherwin 

Miss Donna Shor 

Therese L. Shor 

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond C. 

Shreckengost 
Ellen Vera Sigal 
S. Douglas Sigman 
Mr. Edward Silansky 
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Silberman 
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Simcox 
James B. Simmons 
Mrs. John Farr Simmons 
Joe and Robin Sims 
Mr. and Mrs. John P. Sinclair 
Dr. and Mrs. James D. Singletary 
Mr. and Mrs. William Sinkin 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Sivard and 

Family 
Mrs. E. Sullivan Slack 
Nelson Slater 
Sanford Slavin 
Mrs. Charlotta B. Sloan 
Mrs. Jean Sloan 
Anne Smalet 

Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Small 
Col. and Mrs. C. Haskell Small 
Mr. and Mrs. Marvin Small 
Victoria B. Smalley 
Bailey Smith 
Charles S. Smith 



above) — continued 

Hon. and Mrs. David S. Smith 

Mr. and Mrs. Dean Smith 

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Smith 

Miss Mildred Smith 

Dr. and Mrs. Scott M. Smith 

Shirley A. Smith 

Mr. and Mrs. Sterling W. Smith 

Thomas F. and Patricia M. Smith 

Hon. and Mrs. Henry Smith III 

Mr. Benjamin M. Smith, Jr. 

Lawrence P. and Helen R. Snipper 

Mr. and Mrs. Harry R. Snyder 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Sobeck 

Ms. Janet Solinger 

Dr. Peter Som 

Mr. Juan Armando Soto 

James A. Spahn, Jr. 

T. A. Stanhope 

Gary Staples 

Stuart L. Stauss 

William R. Stehle 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Steigerwald 

Dr. Marjorie L. Stein 

Mr. John L. Stelling 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Stephens 

Mrs. E. C. Sterling 

W. Clinton Sterling III 

William C. Sterling, Jr. 

Mr. Darrell E. Stevens 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Stewart 

Dr. and Mrs. T. Dale Stewart 

Margaret E. Stierwalt 

Warren Stimpert 

Ellen Stockdale 

Miss Barbara M. Stockton 

Mr. Donald Stow 

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Straight 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Stratton 

Virginia Charlene Stroman 

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Struckhoff 

Sylvia Strunk 

J. C. Sturgess 

Dr. and Mrs. Ray E. Stutzman 

William N. Sumerwell Family 

Mary H. D. Swift 

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel H. Swint, Jr. 

Donald Swogger 

Mr. Gerald L. Swope 

James McK. Symington 

Ms. Martha Frick Symington 

M. D. and R. Tabakin 

Mr. and Mrs. Leland E. Talbott 

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Tatar 

Barbara and James D. Tate 

Joel M. Taubin, M.D. 



488 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and a 

Cleonice Tavani 

Ms. Evalyn Taylor 

Mrs. May Day Taylor 

Gen. and Ms. Robert Taylor III 

Ms. Linda Teixeira 

C. L. Tercek 

Joseph Terranova, Jr. 

Joseph M. Tessmer 

The Treuhaft Foundation 

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Therol 

Arthur L. Thiele, M.D. 

Maj. C. A. Thomas 

Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Thomas 

Mr. Beverly T. Thompson 

Mrs. Frank L. Thompson 

Mr. and Mrs. Max E. Thompson 

W. Reid Thompson 

Mr. and Mrs. Brian Thomson 

Mary Edith Thomson 

Dr. John L. Thornton 

Mrs. Vincent M. Throop 

Dr. and Mrs. George Tievsky 

Phillip and Sylvia Tiger 

Richard Timmons 

Dr. and Mrs. Edward P. Todd 

Mr. and Mrs. Vladimir S. Tolstoy 

Mr. and Mrs. John J. Toner 

Mrs. Marvelle B. Toney 

John E. Toole 

John K. Tope 

Homer W. Torbert 

Mrs. William C. Tost 

May Totten 

Ms. Mary Pat Toups 

Mr. and Mrs. David G. Townsend 

Carol J. and Timothy J. Traub, Sr. 

Mr. and Mrs. James C. Treadway 

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen A. Trentman 

James Glen Trott 

Robert L. Tull 

Mrs. James N. Tulloh 

James M. Tully 

Mr. and Mrs. Henry J. Tumasz 

John H. Turner 

Samuel D. Turner 

Charles A. Turner III 

Michele Tutoli 

Dr. and Mrs. Howard Ulfelder 

Mr. William R. Updegraff 

Anthony S. Vaivada 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard C. Van Dusen 

Dr. and Mrs. Philip Varner 

Emily W. Vaughn 

Mr. and Mrs. William V. Vaughn 

Capt. Robert E. Vaughn, USN 



hove) — continued 

Mr. and Mrs. Ray B. Vaughters 

Mrs. Mirta Rodriguez Vega 

A. Elizabeth Verder 

Ms. Marguerite D. Vickerson 

Maria C. Volpe 

H. F. Wachsman, M.D., J.D. 

Mr. Richard F. Wacht 

John R. Wagley 

Mr. and Mrs. John P. Wagner 

Dr. Joseph Walker 

Mr. Robert M. Walker 

Col. and Mrs. John K. Walker, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Wallick 

Barbara R. Walsh 

Mr. and Mrs. F. H. Walton, Jr. 

Mrs. Harry Wanger 

Dr. Celia Ward 

Mr. and Mrs. Morris A. Ward 

Mr. and Mrs. Norman E. Ward, Jr. 

Dorothy D. Warner 

Mr. William W. Warner 

Daniel C. Warren, M.D. 

Robert L. and Carol B. Waters 

Mr. and Mrs. Ray Watkins 

Mr. Arnold Watson 

Mr. James A. Watson, Sr. 

Mr. and Mrs. James L. Watters 

Col. and Mrs. Louis V. Watwood 

Dr. and Mrs. Richard Waxier 

Hon. James E. Webb 

Mr. and Mrs. John D. Webb, Jr. 

Ms. Elizabeth A. Webber 

Mr. Vernon A. Webster 

Nathan and Pauline Wechsler 

Dr. Morris A. Weinberger 

Mr. and Mrs. Eric W. Weinmann 

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Weinstein 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Weitzel 

Mr. and Mrs. Jack W. Wells 

Oscar M. and Jacqueline H. Wells 

Brig. Gen. Sarah P. Wells 

Elizabeth A. Werner 

Stuart L. Werner 

Mrs. Mary Nan West 

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald H. Westby 

Mr. and Mrs. Larry E. Westphal 

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Wharton 

Annette P. Whatley 

Mrs. Edwin M. Wheeler 

George Y. Wheeler 

Mr. Alexander Wheeler, Jr. 

Mary Anne Whitcomb 

Ms. Anita R. White 

Margit T. White 

Mr. Maurice E. White 



Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 489 



DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and ab 

Mr. and Mrs. Wendell B. White 

James L. Whitehead 

James and Elizabeth Whitsett 

Mrs. Catherine L. Whitsitt 

Mr. and Mrs. Harry W. Whyte 

Mr. and Mrs. Blaine L. Wicklein 

Mrs. Mary H. Wiebe 

Mr. Crocker Wight 

Dr. and Mrs. U. V. Wilcox II 

Mr. and Mrs. J. Burke Wilkinson 

Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Wilkinson 

Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Clarke Williams 

Dr. and Mrs. B. H. Williams 

Edward D. and Sheryl A. Williams 

Mr. and Mrs. Harold M. Williams 

Col. Arthur F. Williams, USAF (Ret.) 

Charles and Helen Williamson 

Mr. and Mrs. John K. Willis 

Col. and Mrs. Donald B. Wilson 

Mr. Justin Wilson 

Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson, Jr. 

Roy Winder 

Catherine C. Winklrt 

Mr. and Mrs. David Wise 

Philip B. and Dorothea M. Wisman 

Mr. S. P. Wolfe 



ove) — continued 

Mr. and Mrs. Payson Wolff 

Mrs. William Wolfinger 

Mr. and Mrs. J. Roger Wollenberg 

Mr. David L. Wood 

Imogene R. Wood 

Mrs. Margaret Y. Woodbridge 

Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Woods 

Mr. William Worden 

Mr. Michael Woscoboinik 

Mr. and Mrs. Herman Wouk 

Mr. and Mrs. C. L. Wright 

Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Wurz 

Mr. David E. Wyman, Jr. 

Frederick B. and Brenda M. Wynn 

Miss Sara J. Yager 

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Yaney 

Edward J. and Patricia K. Yates 

David N. Yerkes 

Mr. and Mrs. Gary B. Yost 

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard J. Young 

Hal L. and Janice M. Young 

Mr. and Mrs. Abraham Zelony 

Mrs. John H. Zentay 

Samuel E. and Karen R. Zimmerman 

Mr. G. H. Zinkgraf 

Gunter and Frances Zweig 



There are, in addition to those Contributing Members listed above, Supporting 
Members ($50 and above) too numerous to mention in this publication. Their 
names are included in the separate publication, Benefactors of the Smithsonian 
Institution in Fiscal Year 1980. 



490 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



APPENDIX 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in 
Fiscal Year 1980 



The Board of Regents and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution join 
with the entire staff in thanking all of the Institution's friends for their gen- 
erous financial support and for their gifts to the collections. If perchance the 
name of any donor has been omitted from the following list, it is an inad- 
vertence and in no way diminishes the Institution's gratitude. Many gifts were 
received from donors who prefer to remain anonymous; the Smithsonian 
wishes to thank them for their generosity. 

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY 

SPECIAL PROJECTS 

Donors to the Furnishings Collection 

Mrs. James Edward Chance III, in memory of Stanley Siedenbach Wohl and 

Helen Robertson Wohl: oil painting, Anderson Cottage at Old Soldiers' 

Home. 
Mrs. Phillip Geyelin: 1 Rococo Revival sewing table; 1 silver-plated tea tray 

presented to Senator John Sherman. 
Gross Realty and Construction Company: 2 stone carved finials from Stokes- 

bury house, "Whitemarsh Hall," Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Mr. William H. Hermann and Mrs. Kathryn H. Lord: 1 Rococo Revival sofa. 
Dr. Richard H. Howland: pair of Victorian parlor lamps. 
Mrs. Fern D. Nye: 1 Renaissance Revival hall mirror. 
Mr. Peter G. Powers: 1 roll-top desk, c. 1865; 1 Empire arm chair; pair of 

Renaissance Revival side chairs; 1 Renaissance Revival parlor table; 1 Astral 

lamp. 
Mr. C. V. Shafer: 1 Empire pier table. 
Mr. and Mrs. Milton Turner: 1 watercolor, Duck Pond, by F. R. Petrie; 1 

Steuben glass and silver bowl. 
Miss Dorothy Waggoner: 1 secretary; 1 parlor table; 1 chest; pair of chairs, 

all c. 1880. 
Mr. Richard L. Williams: set of 4 Rococo Revival side chairs; pair of Rococo 

Revival side chairs. 

SCIENCE 

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM 

Donor of Financial Support 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration 

Donors to the Collections 

Mr. Ben Abruzzo: clothing and religious medals worn by and log book kept by 
donor on the first nonstop, transatlantic balloon crossing, August 1978. 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 491 



Air Force Museum, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base: pressure breathing 
oxygen mask. 

Air National Guard, District of Columbia, 121st Tactical Fighter Squadron, 
Andrews Air Force Base: survival kit for Air Force parachute. 

Air National Guard, Maryland, 175th Tactical Flight Group, Baltimore: Gen- 
eral Electric turbojet engine, c. 1970. 

Mr. Maxie Anderson: clothing worn by donor of the first nonstop, trans- 
atlantic balloon crossing, August 1978. 

Mrs. Dagmar Arnold- Wohlforss: "Rudy Arnold Photo Collection." 

Mr. S. N. Bernard: model of W-B2 Columbia. 

Mr. J. P. Bauer: bombsight and disk speed indicator. 

Mr. Carl Alexius Berndtson: painting, Pioneer-Venus Eye. 

Mr. Robert N. Blair: painting, Sandringham over Newfoundland. 

Bloomingdales: a piece of Skylab debris. 

Mr. Louis J. Borges: rate of climb instrument, Annesley propeller and Japanese 
Navy airspeed indicator and altimeter, all c. WW II. 

Mr. Donald B. Bosley: fabric from the airship Hindenburg. 

Mr. John R. Chislett: 5 sextants, 1 skylight compass, and 1 celestial position 
tracker. 

Civil Air Patrol, Middle East Region (through Mr. William Reynolds), Andrews 
Air Force Base: Civil Air Patrol and U.S. Air Force insignia. 

Civil Air Patrol, New Orleans: 2 pairs of flying trousers. 

Continental Airlines: Continental Airlines airport sales agent uniform and set 
of aircrew badges. 

Cybis: 2 sculptures, Tranquillity Base, Apollo 11 Moon Mission and Columbia, 
Apollo 11 Moon Mission. 

Delta Airlines: Delta Airlines female flight attendant uniform, 1971, and a set 
of Delta Airlines aircrew badges. 

Lt. Gen. James H. Doolittle: Revoredo Trophy, 1979, and 2 paintings, Mrs. 
Doolittle and General ]. H. Doolittle. 

Dr. Charles S. Draper: Charles S. Draper memorabilia — National Business Air- 
craft Association meritorious service award, 1979; International Space Hall 
of Fame medal; French Academy of Science medal with supporting docu- 
mentation; Massachusetts Institute of Technology "Bronze Beaver" certifi- 
cate, 1978; and Inertial-Nav System report written in 1979 by Dr. Draper. 

Mr. John Elin: U.S. Air Force WW II pilot's navigation kit. 

ERNO Raumfahrtechnik: model of space lab. 

Mr. William C. Estler: photograph, Chesley Bonestell. 

City of Fullerton, California: sculpture, Flight. 

Family of A. Norman Gallagher: 1912 Mayback airship engine and the power 
unit from a Curtiss electric propeller. 

Mr. Paul E. Garber: Wright Brothers medals. 

Mrs. Sue M. Gerard: pacemeter. 

Dr. Paul Gillette: untitled painting by Clyde Prettyman. 

Goodyear Corporation: models of inflatable space station and three-stage re- 
useable spacecraft. 

Mrs. Charles F. Grafflin: Salmson AD9 aeroengine. 

Mr. Fred Griffith: U.S. Air Force flying helmet. 

Grumman Aerospace Corporation: U.S. Navy pressure-breathing oxygen mask. 

Mr. Joel K. Harris: flying suit worn by Charles Yeager. 

Mr. Joseph H. Hirshhorn: sculpture, Study for the "Monument to Wilbur 
Wright and the Precursors of Aviation." 

Mr. Kenneth Hold: 1941 quick attachable seat pack parachute. 

Mrs. John J. Ide: print, Six Balloons. 

International Communications Agency: ITOS weather satellite. 



492 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Mr. George Kay: radiacmeter and spotlight. 

Mr. Imre Kutassy: sculpture, Man on the Moon. 

Mr. John Langford: flying scale-models of a Javelin and a Nike Tomahawk. 

Mr. Abraham Leiss: 3 commemorative coins of the Scout missile liftoff. 

Charles C. Lewis Company: 2 JN-4D spoke wheels. 

Mr. Larry D. Lewis: Curtiss engine, propeller, and 3 wheels, all c. 1910. 

Mr. David McKee: poster, Aeroplanes Bleriot. 

Mr. Joseph McLaughlin: German WW II flak fragments. 

Mr. Robert A. McLellan: Secor satellite. 

Manta Products, Incorporated: Manta Pterodactyl Fledgling, Micro Lite 
aircraft. 

Mr. J. A. Masek: Waco UIC aircraft. 

Mr. Robert C. Mikesh: 2 practice bombs. 

Mr. Charles W. Millard III: fragment of the Graf Zeppelin. 

Mrs. Anita F. (Floyd) Mitchell: U.S. Army WAC WW II service shoes. 

National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Johnson Space Flight Center: 
Sky lab orbital workshop equipment; Apollo boilerplate; Skylab space food 
canisters; Apollo flight clothing and biomedical equipment; Gemini helmet, 
space suits, nonflight equipment, survival equipment, personal flight equip- 
ment, and accessories; and Apollo reaction control engine; Kennedy Space 
Flight Center: models of Triamese concept, Apollo CSM, and Space Shuttle 
Orbiter, Pegasus "B" Satellite mockup; Langley Space Center: wind tunnel 
models; satellites; and nose cones; Marshall Space Flight Center: Skylab 
debris; and rockets and launch vehicle parts and apparatus. 

National Aerospace Museum (Aviodome) : T-J ramjet engine. 

National Airlines, Incorporated: National Airlines 1980 captain and female 
flight attendant uniforms. 

Naval Air Facility, Andrews Air Force Base: anti-G U.S. Navy coverall and 
U.S. Air Force oxygen masks. 

Naval Air Systems Command, Norfolk, Va.: aircraft parts and electronics. 

Naval Development Center, Warminster, Penn.: U.S. Navy flying helmets. 

Naval Explosive Ordnance Disposal School, Indian Head, Md.: U.S. WW II 
aircraft bombs and Japanese WW II bomb-firing device. 

Naval Support Activity, San Francisco, Calif. : 8 20mm cannons. 

Mr. Larry Newman: clothing worn by donor on first nonstop, transatlantic 
balloon crossing, August 1978. 

New York State Atomic Energy Commission: Hermes A-l Rocket. 

Mr. Andreas Nottebohm: painting, Gold Cloud Galaxy. 

Mr. William Oliver (through Western Airlines) : Western Airlines maintenance 
foreman uniform and aircrew badges. 

Family of Charles Olmsted: Olmsted propeller for Navy-Curtiss Flying Boat, 
1919. 

Mr. Arthur Pettingill: aircraft engine model. 

Mr. Stephen Pitcairn: Pitcairn PCA2 Autogiro model. 

Mr. Frederick H. Prime: control wheel from Short Brothers Flying Boat, WW I. 

Mr. Raymond Quinn: Hispaho-Suize engine and propeller. 

Dr. and Mrs. Harry Reger and their children: painting, Bernst Balcher. 

Mr. Ken Ross: 1914 aerial bomb. 

Mr. Gustav Scherrer: painting, General Dornberger. 

Mr. Aldo Sessa: painting, Humorum. 

Ms. Katherine N. Stanley: Stanley Nomad sailplane. 

Mr. Timothy Stephens: U.S. Army officer's summer coat and identification 
tags, WW I. 

Mrs. August Stiegler: flying helmet worn by Glenn L. Martin. 

Mr. J. B. Terrell: 2 spoke wheels of JN-4 aircraft. 

Mr. S. Thornton: Skylab debris. 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 493 



Tippetts-Abbot-McCarthy-Stratton, Engineers and Architects: Dallas/Fort 
Worth Airport planning model. 

Transatlantic Venture Company: "Double Eagle II" balloon envelope. 

Trigon: 6 Lewis machine-gun magazine drums. 

Mr. Juan Trippe: medals, aviator certificate, aviation models, paintings, com- 
memorative objects, and U.S. Navy uniforms and accessories. 

U.S. Air Force, 6515th Test Support Squadron, Edwards Air Force Base: col- 
lection of WW I bombs. 

U.S. Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency: military escape and 
evasion kits (barter kits) for Atlantic and Southeast Asia. 

U.S. Department of Treasury, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms: Japa- 
nese machine gun. 

U.S. Navy, Davis-Monthan Air Force Base: Lockheed P-2H Neptune aircrafts. 

Mr. Thomas B. Walsh: model of Bell 47G helicopter. 

Lt. Comdr. Joseph E. Wood: key to airship Los Angeles radio room. 

Mr. Ralph C. Woolley: instruments and light from WW I aircraft. 

Mr. Robert A. Yarber: 3 sculptures. Instruments for a New Navigation. 

Mr. John E. Yeager: airplane receiver, U.S., c. 1917. 

Mr. Warren E. Youngclaus: Irvin back and chest type parachutes, 1930. 

Donors to the National Air and Space Museum Library 

American Astronautical Society: official records. 

Mrs. Joseph Howard Barnard: photograph of William "Billy" Mitchell, auto- 
graphed. 

Robert F. Brown: material on the Republic XF-91. 

Mrs. H. Lester Cooke: newspaper clippings on the space missions and other 
materials. 

E. A. Crome: pamphlet and envelope commemorating the opening of the first 
Heliport at Darling Harbor, Sydney, Australia, Wednesday, August 29, 1979. 

Robert C. Ehle: score of his Space Symphony and a tape recording of the per- 
formance by the Denver Symphony Orchestra. (Spaceborne Symphony) 

Mrs. Mary Feik: photographs of Sergei Sikorsky and Capt. Ralph Barnaby. 

James Goode: phonograph recording of Man on the Moon. 

Andrew G. Haley, Jr., and Delphine D. Haley: correspondence and reports of 
their father's work with the International Astronautical Federation, Ameri- 
can Rocket Society, and books on space law. 

Richard P. Hallion: tunnel calibration notes of Jerry Lederer on the Curtiss 
wind tunnel installed at New York University. 

Holiday Film Corporation: slides of space missions. 

Bevo Howard: photographs, documents, and posters of his events, and year- 
books from the "Flying Schools." 

David Lang: two envelopes commemorating the sixtieth anniversary of 
scheduled air services operated by Handley Page Transport Ltd. 

William Luria: "List of Passengers," signed by Charles A. Lindbergh and 
"Manifesto of Passengers in Transit." 

David R. McLaren: 4 sets of 35mm copy negatives of P-5lH's. 

Paul Marzano: poem entitled "Apollo 11." 

Wayne Parrish : photographs on commercial aviation. 

Francisco D. R. Pfaltzgraff : envelope honoring the fiftieth anniversary of the 
Graf Zeppelin. 

Lester P. Shea: pamphlet on the "Worcester Air Pageant." 

Juan Terry Trippe: documents, photographs, and correspondence with Charles 
Lindbergh, and holographs. 

Egon A. Weiss: biographical material on General Frederick E. Humphreys. 

J. Birney Work : postcards of the International Aviation Meet, Chicago, August 
1911. 



494 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF MAN, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN 
Donors of Financial Support 

NATIONAL ANTHROPOLOGICAL FILM CENTER 

Harvard University: in support of expenses for NAFC's Research Film Study 

of Traditional Tibetan Civilization for experimental development of filmic 

material on the Oracles of Ladakh. 
Ambassador Marquita M. Maytag: to be applied to the salary and associated 

expenses of a deputy or assistant director for administration of the National 

Anthropological Film Center. 

Donors and Collaborative Acquisitions 

NATIONAL ANTHROPOLOGICAL FILM CENTER 

Lain S. Bangdel, Royal Nepal Academy: 77,385 feet of synch sound research 
footage on the cultural heritage of Nepal, filmed in 1980. 

Elizabeth R. Dickey, University of Illinois, Urbana: 2,400 feet of synch sound 
research footage of cultural behaviors involved in the epidemiology of hepa- 
titis B virus in the New Hebrides. 

Wayne Dye, Summer Institute of Linguistics: 30,000 feet of synch sound re- 
search footage from traditional cultures in Papua New Guinea, filmed in 
1979. 

Frances Emerick: 1,200 feet of master/print film shot in India, c. 1930; 400 feet 
of master/print film shot in Hong Kong and Manila, 1956. 

Luding Khen Rinpoche, Library of Tibetan Works and Archives: 45,000 feet 
of synch sound research footage of traditional Tibetan life and culture 
filmed in Ladakh (western Tibet), 1980. 

Tokyo String Quartet: tape recordings of three performances at the Corcoran 
Gallery of Art, using the rare seventeenth-century Amati instruments. 

Gyatsho Tshering, Library of Tibetan Works and Archives: 39,190 feet of 
synch sound research footage of traditional Tibetan life and culture filmed 
in traditional Tibetan monastic communities in India in 1980. 

Scott Williams, Bellevue Community College: 20,000 feet of synch sound re- 
search footage on traditional child behavior and social interactions in 
Micronesia, filmed in 1980. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 



Donors of Financial Support 

AMAX Foundation, Inc. 
American Philosophical Society 
The American Association of 

Petroleum Geologists 
Anonymous 
Dayton Hudson Corporation and 

J. E. Caldwell Jewelers 
The Max and Victoria Dreyfus 

Foundation, Inc. 
The Eppley Foundation for 

Research, Inc. 
Exxon Corporation 
Dr. Kurt Fredriksson 
General Refractories Co. 
Sumner Gerard Foundation 
Getty Oil Co. 
Mrs. Bea Gold 



The Griffis Foundation, Inc. 

The Sidney L. Hechinger Foundation 

Mrs. Amy E. Higgins 

Mr. Robert P. Higgins 

Hughes Tool Company 

Kerr McGee Corporation 

Marathon Oil Foundation, Inc. 

Dr. Brian H. Mason 

Dr. William G. Melson 

National Geographic Society 

Mr. Jack Pearce 

Mr. Lloyd E. Raport 

Dr. Harold A. Rehder 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Reid, Jr. 

St. Joe Minerals Corporation 

Lewis and Rosa Strauss 

Memorial Fund [ cont. ] 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 495 



Mary Horner Stuart Foundation Undersea Medical Society 

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr. Mrs. Annie B. Wetmore 

William C. Sturtevant Dr. George Wharton 

Time/Life Books, Inc. World Wildlife Fund 



Donors to the National Collections 

INSTITUTIONAL 

Aarhus Universitet, Denmark: 2 echinoderms (335541). 

Academia Sinica, China: 121 fossils (339345, exchange); 303 plants (339484, 
340772, exchanges); 2 Chinese lizards (339866). 

Adelaide, University of, Australia: 3 minerals (340628). 

Academy of Sciences, USSR: 211 plants (336676); 420 plants (337205, 337736, 
exchanges); 81 fossils (337353, exchange); 5 minerals (337645, exchange). 

Agriculture, U.S. Department of: 25,579 insects (338959, 341723); 238 plants 
(337194, 337223, 337236); 10 mollusks (335998). 

Albany Museum, South Africa: 18 fishes (338527). 

Alberta, University of, Canada: plants (338185, exchange). 

Alpine Exploration: 6 minerals (339346). 

American Museum of Natural History: 3 minerals (336959, 337455, exchanges); 
3 frogs (337328, exchange). 

Ammori Prefectoral Fisheries Experimental Station, Japan: 10 fishes (335509). 

Amoy Fisheries College, China: 18 fishes (339913, exchange). 

Andhra University, India: 4 crustaceans (335912). 

Appalachian State University: 24 fossils (339617). 

Applied Marine Ecological Services, Inc.: 1,964 crustaceans (322803). 

Aquinas College: 471 crustaceans (315183). 

Arizona, University of: 1 bird skin (340490, exchange); 11 plants (338867). 

Arizona State University: 14 crustaceans (337515, 337804). 

Arkansas State University: 53 crustaceans (318233, 338766). 

Artrox: 1 mineral (337419). 

Asociacion Mexicana de Orquideologia, Mexico: 1 plant (340117). 

Auburn University: 192 crustaceans, 7 mollusks (338835). 

Auckland, University of, New Zealand: 4 minerals (326069, exchange). 

Australian Museum, Australia: 5 mollusks (338086). 

Ball State University: 1 bat (340433). 

Baltimore Insect Control and Research, Inc.: 10 crustaceans (339832). 

Battelle Columbus Laboratories: 500 worms (340434). 

Beak Consultants Incorporated: 100 mollusks (339222). 

Bernice P. Bishop Museum: 2 dragonflies (341600); 12 fishes (338525, ex- 
change); 311 plants (337246, 337766, 339458, exchanges). 

Bideaux Minerals and Roebling Fund: 2 minerals (338942). 

Biocontrol of Weeds Laboratory, Europe: 3 weevils (338696, exchange). 

Boston University: 1,600 crustaceans (340067). 

Botanische Staatssammlung, Germany: 4 plants (338913). 

Botanischer Garten und Institut fur Systematische Botanik der Universitat 
Zurich, Switzerland: 61 plants (339460, exchange). 

Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Germany: 44 plants (340845, exchange). 

Brigham Young University: 157 plants (338140, exchange); 9 plants (338184). 

British Museum (Natural History), England: 2 crustaceans (339341); 5 fossils 
(341138); 25 insects (338989, 341595); 653 fishes (337305); 38 plants 
(337725). 

Brown Fund: 64 fossils (339674). 

Bruce Huges Fund and Dr. Eugene I. Knez: 100 Pakistani contemporary house- 
hold goods (338953). 



496 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Busch Gardens: 2 crocodiles (337940). 

California Academy of Sciences: 4 insects (341605, 340911, exchanges); 1 mol- 

lusk (337550); 1 echinoderm slide (336144). 
California Department of Food and Agriculture: 6 insects (341716). 
California, University of: 29 insects (332462, 338358, exchanges); 147 crusta- 
ceans and 6 slides (326156, 337314, 337507, 337833, 338828, 339071, 339099, 

339833, 340620, 340026, 340741, 341326); 3 fishes (290891); 20 echinoderms 

(327374, 337411, 328814); 10 minerals (336956); 1 plant (338871); 56 worm 

slides (339366). 
Canada Centre for Mineral and Energy Technology, Canada: 3 minerals 

(338109). 
Canada Geological Survey, Canada: 3 minerals (340229, exchange). 
Canada Pacific Biological Station, Canada: 1 mollusk (339224). 
Canadian Occidental Petroleum, Ltd., Canada: 1 mineral (338746). 
Canberra Botanic Gardens, Australia: 153 plants (338202, 340823, exchanges). 
Canfield Fund: 7 minerals (338085, 338273, 339374, 339375, 339908, 338943). 
Canterbury, University of, New Zealand: 5 crustaceans (336785). 
Caribbean Marine Biological Institute, Netherlands Antilles: 11 sponges and 

12 slides (335524). 
Carleton University, Canada: 19 weevils (337897, exchange). 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History: 2 bird skins (340886, exchange). 
Centro de Pesquisas de Cacau, Brazil: 6 plants (337750, 338884, 339503). 
Centre de Recherches Oceanographiques, France: 2 crustaceans (315024). 
Centre Oceanologique de Bretagne, France: 2 worms (339365). 
Chamberlain Fund: 1 gem (337547); 1 mineral (330164); a jade vase, a charoite 

vase, and a charoite compote (334186). 
Chatham Created Gems, Inc.: 5 crystals (340438). 
Chicago, University of: 10 worms (337667). 
Cincinnati, University of: 3,100 plants (340812). 

Clemson University: 801 crustaceans (270309, 325357); 6,838 insects (338351). 
Clyde F. Reed Herbarium: 7 plants (338131, 338860). 
Colegio de Postgraduados, Mexico: 11 plants (340807). 
College of Charleston: 5 crustaceans (337110). 
Colorado University Museum: 253 plants (338160, exchange). 
Colorado, University of: 35 crustaceans (337161, exchange). 
Colorado State University Lassa Fever Multimammate Mouse Project. (See 

Smithsonian Institution.) 
Commerce, U.S. Department of: 42 worms (337112, 337836, 340234, 341112); 

43 crustaceans (337425, 338060, 338279); 424 fossils (337323); 26 mollusks 

(335392); 50 volcanic glasses (340667). 
Commonwealth Institute of Entomology, England: 5 wasps (338356). 
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Australia: 2 

minerals (337475, 339646); 3 grasshoppers (338347). 
Connecticut, University of: 1 plant (337209). 
Continental Shelf Associates, Inc.: 13 echinoderms (334932). 
Copenhagen, University of, Denmark: 2 corals and 1 sponge (334534). 
Cornell University, L. H. Bailey Hortorium: 4 plants (336653, 337212); 17 

plants and 4 photographs (336654, 337232, 337692, exchanges). 
Corpus Christi State University: 13 echinoderms (333481, 337517). 
Cowell Jade Pty., Ltd., Australia: 1 mineral (337459). 
Dallas Museum of Natural History: 9 bird skeletons (341622). 
Dar es Salaam, University of, Tanzania: 4 worm slides (338533). 
Defense, U.S. Department of: 42 insects (338964); 2 shrews and 10 rodents 

(334153); 20 crustaceans (332050); 1 frog and 2 geckos (288657). 
Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, New Zealand: 27 plants 

(340155); 1 meteorite (340880). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 497 



Departmento de Conservacao Ambiental, Brazil: 45 plants (336650, 336655, 

338865). 
Dublin, University of, Trinity College, Ireland: 20 echinoderms (312373). 
Duke University: 88 crustaceans (338322, 339084); 1 echinoderm (340005); 7 

minerals (341012, exchange); 146 plants (340785, exchange); 13 plants 

(340811, exchange). 
Dunstaffnage Marine Research Laboratory, Scotland: 56,282 crustaceans 

(337546). 
Eastern Kentucky University: 1 mineral (337525, exchange). 
Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Department of: 5 crustaceans (313398, 

339690). 
Fairchild Tropical Garden Herbarium: 198 plants (338206, 338921, 340158). 
Field Museum of Natural History: 5 ferns (338159, 338915); 12 ferns (338929, 

339489, exchanges); 11 meteorites (326335); 1 meteorite (298368, exchange); 

629 plants (338150, 338876, exchanges). 
Florida A&M University: 1 insect (340601, exchange). 
Florida Atlantic University: 92 crustaceans (318428). 
Florida Department of Natural Resources: 36 crustaceans (340373); 211 corals 

(338475); 583 mollusks (337664). 
Florida International University: 1 echinoderm (339616); 54 crustaceans 

(340238). 
Florida Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries: 7 echinoderm slides (340710). 
Florida, University of: 4 echinoderms (305668); 2 plants (340157). 
Florida State Museum: 449 crustaceans (319456, 337329, 340502). 
Florida State University: 19 crustaceans and 24 slides (336439, 339102); 20 

plants (338922, 340769). 
Forschungsinstitut Senckenberg, Germany: 4 crustaceans (339398). 
Fundacao Estadual de Engenharia do Meio Ambiente, Brazil: 8 plants (338844, 

338873). 
Fundacao Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica, Brazil: 418 plants 

(340159, 340773, 340774). 
Fundacao Universidade de Brasilia, Brazil: 90 mollusks (338049). 
Fundacion Miguel Lillo, Argentina: 212 plants (338875, exchange). 
General Services Administration, U.S.: a diamond and platinum necklace 

(339118). 
Geological Museum, China: 18 minerals (336872, 337949, exchanges). 
Geological Museum, Denmark: 1 mineral (338724, exchange). 
Georgia Department of Natural Resources: 65 crustaceans (324468, 338802); 

3,200 beetles (338981). 
Goteborg, University of, Sweden: 32 worms and 43 slides (337520, 340740). 
Government Chemical Laboratories, Australia: 7 minerals (338362); 52 cores 

(340949). 
Gradina Botanica-Herbar, Romania: 122 plants (340103, exchange). 
Harold L. Lyon Arboretum: 176 plants (340857). 
Harvard University, Botanical Museum: 1 plant (337734); Farlow Herbarium: 

44 plants (340150); Herbaria: 38 plants (337276, 338154, 338927); 153 plants 

(340824, exchange); Mineralogical Museum: 9 minerals (337453, 337499, 

339113, exchanges). 
Hawaii, University of: 10 sponges (332849); 436 crustaceans (339580); 341 

plants (340152, exchange). 
Health, Education and Welfare, U.S. Department of: 1 mammal (339823). (See 

also, United Nations World Health Organization.) 
Helsinki, University of, Finland, Botanical Museum: 54 plants (338130, ex- 
change); Institute of Geology and Mineralogy: 1 mineral (339647). 
Herbario Alberto Castellanos, Brazil: 32 plants (340170). 
Herbario Vargas, Peru: 2 plants (340090). 



498 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Herbarium Bogoriense, Indonesia: 442 plants (336682, exchange). 

Herbarium Bradeanum, Brazil: 56 plants (337264, 338920, 338935, 339501); 2 
plants (339501, exchange). 

Herbier du Centre Orstom, France: 99 plants (338134, 340153). 

Heron Island Research Station, Australia: 2 crustaceans (337834). 

Humboldt State University: 2 worms (338821). 

Idaho Department of Health and Welfare: 10,107 crustaceans (331616). 

Illinois, University of: 3 plants (340151, exchange). 

Indiana University: 7 crustaceans (337945); 122 fossils (338441, 340289). 

Institut der Universitat Heidelberg, West Germany: 1 mineral (340228). 

Institute of Biological Sciences, Romania: 39 beetles (338686, exchange). 

Institute for Systematic Botany, The Netherlands: 117 plants (340099). 

Instituto Botanico, Venezuela: 299 plants (338145, 340095, 340115); 27 plants 
(338890, 340178, exchanges). 

Instituto Botanico A. J. Cavanilles, Spain: 120 plants (336643). 

Instituto de Biologia da UNICAMP, Brazil: 269 plants (338866, exchange). 

Instituto de Botanica, Brazil: 144 plants (337738, exchange). 

Instituto de Botanica Darwinion, Argentina: 107 plants (338905, exchange); 
58 plants (339459). 

Instituto de Pesquisas Agronomicas, Brazil: 1 plant (337733). 

Instituto de Pesquisas de Marinha, Brazil: 106 crustaceans (320473). 

Instituto del Mar del Peru, Peru: 9 crustaceans (337313). 

Instituto Evandro Chagas, Brazil: 1 mouse (339578). 

Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones, Mexico: 23 plants (337265). 

Instituto Nacional para la Conservacion de la Naturaleza, Spain: 2 hares 
(340619). 

Instituto Universitario de Technologia de Coro, Venezuela: 3 plants (338861). 

Interior, U.S. Department of: Bird and Mammal Laboratory: 42 crustaceans 
(337413); Bureau of Land Management: 523 echinoderms (337093); 5,000 
mollusks (337093); 5 plants (338880); 40,851 worms (337093, 339841, 
340739); Geological Survey 3 crustaceans (337164); 2,549 fossils (337318, 
337322, 337359, 337361, 337506, 337837, 337931, 337932, 337961, 338056, 
338284, 338649, 339085, 339712, 339285, 339618, 339670, 339825, 340085, 
340242, 340243, 340367, 340382, 340508, 340706, 340918, 341010); 7,202 min- 
erals (336694, 337458, 340436); 610 rocks, 299 glasses, 32 petrology specimens 
(340381, 340946, 340947, 341242); 208 mollusks (338542, 340372); 17 plants 
(338899); National Fish and Wildlife Laboratory: 7,954 bird skins and 
skeletons (337825, 341620); 3,447 mammals (341486); 3,180 reptiles and 
amphibians (335561, 337562, 338065, 338740, 339868, 339940, 340500); Na- 
tional Park Service: 1 snake (335453); 273 human skeletal remains (341573); 
Office of Endangered Species: 1 lizard (335935); Office of Planning and Co- 
ordination: 3 lizards (339939). 

Jardim Botanico do Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 392 plants (336652, 337187, 338841, 
340770). 

Jewel Tunnel Imports: 1 mineral (339766). 

Johns Hopkins University: 3 sponges (338825). 

Karachi University, Invertebrate Reference Museum, Pakistan: 2 crustaceans 
(337965). 

Kristalle: 3 minerals (340231, exchange). 

Kryolitselskabet Oresund, Denmark: 1 ironstone (340955). 

Laboratoire de Mineralogie et Geologie, France: 1 mineral (339347). 

Lae, Papua, and New Guinea, Government of, Department of Primary In- 
dustry: 32 plants (339476, exchange); 87 plants (338155, 339442, 339475). 

Lafayette Zoological Park: 1 sea lion (341529). 

Laval Universite, Canada: 1 plant (337700). 

Liege, University of, Belgium: 2 minerals (338111). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 499 



Limnologische Flusstation des Max-Planck Instituts, West Germany: 1 beetle 

(330200). 
Lomonosov State University of Moscow, USSR: 3 plants (338126, exchange). 
Longwood Gardens: 1 fern (336656). 
Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History: 32 ferns (338930); 45 plants 

(337775, 338127); 2 mollusks (338051). 
Los Angeles Zoo: 60 mammals (334690). 
Louisiana State University: 74 crustaceans (337937, 340736); 1 plant (337768); 

71 worms and 23 slides (337666, 340019, 340328). 
Louisville, University of: 59 crustaceans (341211). 
Lyko Mineral and Gem, Inc.: 2 minerals (341058). 
Maine, University of: 3 crustaceans (341199). 
Marie Selby Botanical Garden: 237 plants (337193, 338919, 340130, 340831, 

337208); 159 plants (338919, exchanges). 
Marine Biological Association, England: 28 crustaceans and 2 slides (338617). 
Marine Resources Research Institute: 17 crustaceans (332894, 336784, 337660). 
Maryland Office of Chief Medical Examiner: human skeletal remains (338300, 

338301). 
Maryland, University of: 653 crustaceans (329660, 339836); 1 echinoderm 

(338715); 1,326 plants (340844); Appalachian Environmental Laboratory: 37 

crustaceans (327002); Chesapeake Biological Laboratory: 2 echinoderms 

(340066). 
Massachusetts, University of: 158 plants (339477). 
Medical College of Ohio: 94 crustaceans (339837, 340374). 
Memorial University of Newfoundland, Canada: 3 crustaceans (339834); 6 

echinoderms (315042). 
Memphis State University: 3 plants (337259); 29 crustaceans (338048). 
Miami, University of: 5 bird skins (341617, exchange); Rosenthiel School of 

Marine and Atmospheric Science: 2,527 echinoderms (332276); 30 crusta- 
ceans (336431). 
Michigan, University of: 1 plant (337732); Herbarium: 49 plants (336646, 

337682, 337687, 338868); Museum of Zoology: 35 crustaceans (337661); 4 

lizards (319453, exchange), 1 worm (341275). 
Michigan State University, Herbarium: 3 plants (340175, exchange). 
Micronesian Mariculture Demonstration Center, Caroline Islands: 35 mollusks 

(337674). 
Milwaukee Public Museum Herbarium: 235 plants (337230, exchange). 
Mineral Fund: 144 minerals (338407, 339907, 340266, 340399, 340398, 341057, 

340411). 
Mineral Kingdom of Woodmere: 2 minerals (338277, 340627). 
Mineral Resources Department, Fiji Islands: 26 crustaceans (337104). 
Ministry of Natural Resources, IDERENA, Colombia: 13 plants (338864). 
Missouri Botanical Garden: 1,373 plants (336644, 336645, 337206, 337251, 

337678, 337695, 338141, 338158, 338872, 338891, 340088, 340162, 340767, 

340808); 58 plants (338141, 340828, exchanges). 
Missouri, University of, College of Agriculture: 2 plants (337239). 
Museo de Historia Natural, Herbario San Marcos, Peru: 13 plants (337218). 
Museo Nacional de Costa Rica, Costa Rica: 3 ferns (340179). 
Museo Nacional De Historia Natural, Dominican Republic: 3 bird skins 

(341244, exchange). 
Museu Botanico Municipal, Brazil: 63 plants (337201, 338133). 
Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, Brazil: 34 plants (339483, exchange). 
Museum National D'Histoire Naturelle, France: 3 crustaceans (337675); 2 

crustaceans (338805, exchange); 4 minerals (338743, exchange); 267 plants 

and 18 photographs (336651, 337749, 340156, exchanges); 5 worms (298891, 

exchange). 



500 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



National Aeronautics and Space Administration: 9 meteorites and 1 Tektite 

(339980). 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Fund: 1 meteorite (330618). 
National Botanic Garden, Ireland: 1 plant (340106). 
National Geographic Society: 12 gorilla skeletons (341302). 
National Herbarium; Botanical Research Institute; South Africa: 7 plants 

(340820). 
National Museum of Natural Sciences, Canada: 279 plants (337215, exchange). 
National Museum, New Zealand: 10 bird skins and 19 skeletons (339782, ex- 
change); 11 fishes (341325). 
National Museum of Victoria, Australia: 7 crustaceans (338631, exchange). 
National Science Museum, Japan: 5 mollusks (337041); 2 petrology and vol- 

canology specimens (340950, exchange). 
Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Sweden: 20 worms (262572, exchange); 29 plants 

(340110). 
Nebraska, University of: 1 plant (340164). 
Negev, University of, Israel: 2 minerals (339926). 
New Brunswick, University of, Canada: 1 coral (337824). 
Newcastle Upon Tyne, University of, England: 1 mineral (340224). 
New England Regional Primate Research Center: 20 primates and 1 shrew 

(337673). 
New Hampshire, University of: 1 mollusk (312129). 
New Mexico, University of, Institute of Meteorites: 3 meteorites (337953, 

exchange). 
New York Botanical Garden: 983 plants (340768, 340789, exchanges); 1,058 

plants (339438, exchange); 1,350 plants (337219, 337226, 337708, 337740, 

338204, 338840, 339482, 340181). 
New York Zoological Society: 21 worms (338831); 1 crustacean (339266). 
New Zealand Oceanographic Institute, New Zealand: 3 corals (340507, ex- 
change). 
Nihon University, Japan: 6 crustaceans (340412, exchange). 
North Carolina, University of: 170 crustaceans (326925); worms (338622); 35 

fossils (340557); 3 worms (338788). 
Northeastern University, Marine Science Institute: 1 worm and 4 slides 

(339225). 
Northern Iowa, University of: 840 crustaceans (333132). 
Northern Territory, Department of, Australia: 189 crustaceans (332967); 43 

plants (337227, 339494). 
Okayama University, Japan: 1 mineral (339373). 
Oklahoma, University of: 1 echinoderm (340023). 
Oregon Department of Agriculture: 20 insects (339353, exchange). 
Oregon State University: 4 crustaceans (339131); 4 fishes (340217). 
Oxford, University of, England: 4 echinoderms (340269). 
Pala Properties International, Inc.: 22 minerals (337477, 337948, 337969, 337967, 

339545, 341159, exchanges); 18 minerals (338248, 337967, 340440, 340921, 

341269, 341500); and Roebling Fund: 4 minerals (337380). 
Palemer College: 10 echinoderms (298057). 

Panama, Embassy of: a Cuna Indian woman's costume (341572). 
Paul and Beekman, Inc.: 1 mammal, 10 mollusks, 6 worms (339072). 
Philadelphia Academy of Sciences: 29 fishes (338621, 339676). 
Phillips-Universitat Marburg, West Germany: 1 mineral (341503). 
Plumbago Mining Corp.: 11 minerals (339363). 
Pomona College: 46,242 insects (341640). 
Port Harcourt, University of, Nigeria: 20 crustaceans, 3 mollusks (339762); 1 

echinoderm (339196). 
Prefietura Municipal de Curitiba, Brazil: 39 plants (339452). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 501 



Pretoria, University of, South Africa: 2 insects (333872, exchange). 

Princeton University: 141 fossils (339641). 

Puerto Rico Center for Energy and Environment Research: 9 echinoderms 
(340212). 

Puerto Rico, University of: 2 echinoderms (334172); 24 crustaceans (339287). 

Queensland Herbarium, Australia: 127 plants (336685, exchange). 

Queensland, University of, Australia: 7 crustaceans (337835). 

Rhode Island, University of, Narragansett Marine Laboratory: 14 crustaceans 
(330844). 

Rhodes University, J. L. B. Smith Institute of Ichthyology, South Africa: 31 
fishes (334847, 338629). 

Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Netherlands: 4 moths (324728); 30 
crustaceans (341274). 

Roebling Fund: 72 Minerals (337343, 337381, 337417, 337449, 337539, 337909, 
337968, 338093, 338274, 339583, 339584, 339643, 339883, 339885, 339904, 
339905, 339906, 339909, 340225, 340267, 340408, 341037); and Van Scriver's 
Minerals (337503); and Sr. Carlos P. Barbosa (339644). (See also Bideaux 
Minerals.) 

Rome, University of, Italy: 3 minerals (341501). 

Rothamsted Experimental Station, England: 26 worms (337832). 

Royal Botanic Gardens, Australia: 46 plants (337253, exchange). 

Royal Botanic Gardens, England: 1,321 plants and 4 fruits (337257, 337701, 
338879, 338932, 338933, 340101, exchanges). 

Royal Botanic Gardens, Scotland: 1 plant (339491). 

Royal Ontario Museum, Canada: 40 mollusks, 3 worms (336993); 51 fishes 
(337091, 337671); 4 minerals (337452, 339198, exchanges). 

Ruhy-Universitat Bochum, West Germany: 4 minerals (341504). 

St. Joseph's College, The Rapinat Herbarium, India: 43 plants (337221, 
340142). 

St. Mary's University, Canada: 9 crustaceans (313438). 

San Antonio Zoo and Aquarium: 10 crustaceans (321210). 

San Diego Museum of Natural History: 326 plants (339441, exchange). 

San Diego Zoological Gardens: 4 mammals (339083). 

Sea World: 8 bird skins (338326). 

Skidway Institute of Oceanography: 11 echinoderms (339284, 340068). 

South Africa Geological Survey: 1 mineral (338787). 

South African Association for Marine Biological Research Oceanographic Re- 
search Institute, South Africa: 1 fish (341063). 

South Alabama, University of: 166 crustaceans (317806, 337115, 341185). 

South Australian Museum, Australia: 1 bird (339427, exchange); 3 meteorites 
(337799, exchange). 

South Australia State Herbarium, Australia: 90 plants (338152, exchange). 

South Carolina Marine Resources Research Institute: 9,293 crustaceans 
(339880). 

South Carolina Wildlife and Marine Resources Department: 16,039 crusta- 
ceans, 54 worms (333646). 

South Carolina, University of, Belle W. Baruch Institute for Marine Biology 
and Coastal Research: 97 crustaceans and 1 slide (338041, 339149, 339738). 

South Florida, University of: 87 plants (337769, 338869); Herbarium: 3 plants 
(337681, 338914). 

Southeastern Oklahoma State University: 1 plant (339480). 

Southern Arkansas University: 2,572 crustaceans (316027). 

Southern California, University of: 10 crustaceans (315498); 580 echinoderms 
(338052, 340919); Allan Hancock Foundation: 287 crustaceans (318235, 
321275, 339247, 339288, 340709, 340727); 5 worms (340983). 

Southern Illinois University: 464 crustaceans (337946, 339396, 340511). 

Southwest Foundation for Research and Education: 1 mammal (335562). 



502 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Southwestern Louisiana, University of: 90 plants (338870, exchange); 18 crus- 
taceans (339316). 
Station Marine d'Endoume, France: 3,100 echinoderms (327934); 2 worms 

(329113). 
Stuart Fund: 209 minerals (335473, 337415, 337416, 338811, 339025, 339026, 

339114, 339117, 339882, 339884, 339886, 339911, 340223); 5 minerals (339911, 

exchange). 
Sul Ross State College: 33 plants (339457). 
Sydney, University of, Australia: 17 worms (326843). 
Tampa, University of: 3 crustaceans (337162). 
Tel- Aviv University, Israel: 4 butterflies (341717). 
Tennessee, University of: 311 crustaceans (337040, 338047, 340510); 2 ferns 

(338183); 137 mollusks (340979). 
Texas University: 149 echinoderms (324599); 27 insects (341597); Memorial 

Museum: 12 crustaceans (336923). 
Texas A&M University: 5 echinoderms (336915); 20 insects (338963, 341603); 

13 plants (337746); Tracy Herbarium: 261 plants (338203, exchange). 
Texas Christian University: 7 fossils (341139). 
Texas Instruments Incorporated: 3 crustacean slides (340213). 
Texas Tech University: 505 crustaceans and 27 slides (320891, 321287, 324535, 

326029). 
Texas Winkler County Sheriff's Office: human skeletal remains (338305). 
Tokyo University of Agricuture, Japan: 4 insects (338350). 
Tokyo, University of, Japan: 280 plants (337677, 337726, exchanges); Ocean 

Research Institute: 43 worms (337545, 341497); 193 plants (340127, ex- 
change). 
Toronto, University of, Canada: 2 crustaceans (300013). 
Transvaal Museum, South Africa: a toad (338067, exhange). 
Tropical Science Center, Costa Rica: 11 plants (338163). 

Tufts University, Herbarium: 312 plants (337235, 338198, 340104, exchanges). 
Tulane University: 1 bamboo (338162); Museum of Natural History: 10 fishes 

(340414, exchange). 
Tulsa, University of: 1 crustacean (337414). 
United Nations World Health Organization and U.S. Department of Health, 

Education and Welfare: 388 mammals (338318). 
Universidad Austral de Chile: 36 crustaceans (319262). 

Universidad Catolica Madre y Maestra, El Herbario Rafael M. Moscoso, Do- 
minican Republic: 27 plants (337188, 337262, 340135). 
Universidad Central de Venezuela, Venezuela: 24 plants (336642). 
Universidad de Los Andes, Venezuela: 92 plants (337249, 338197, 339435). 
Universidad Interamericana de Puerto Rico: 11 crustaceans (334547). 
Universidad Mayor de San Andres, Instituto de Ecologia, Bolivia: 218 plants 

(340794). 
Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Colombia: 

347 plants (340111, 340796). 
Universidad Nacional de Cordoba, Argentina: 9 plants and 7 photographs 

(297720). 
Universidad Nacional de la Plata, Argentina: 6 insects (338978). 
Universidad Nacional del Nordeste, Argentina: 90 plants (337693). 
Universidad de Oriente, Venezuela: 17 plants (338916). 
Universidade de Sao Paulo, Instituto de Biociencias, Brazil: 12 insects (338955); 

Instituto Oceanografico : 21 crustaceans (318274); 7 crustaceans (338365, 

exchange). 
Universidade Federal do Parana, Brazil: 38 plants (300570). 
Universite d'Aix-Marseille, France: 74 crustaceans (322585); 2 echinoderms 

(340022). 
Universitetet I Bergen, Norway: 5 crustaceans (338437). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 503 



Universitetet I Tromso, Tromso Museum, Norway: 1 mineral (337474). 
Universitetets Zoologiske Museum, Denmark: 7 crustaceans (318135); 500 

worms (339665). 
Universitut Hamburg, Zoologisches Institut unci Museum, Germany: 17 worms 

(294920, exchange). 
University College of Swansea, United Kingdom: 215 worms (325068); 1 

crustacean (338651). 
Uppsala, University of, Herbarium, Sweden: 23 mosses (340791, exchange). 
Utah State University: 63 plants (338934, exchange). 
Van Scriver's Minerals: See Roebling Fund. 
Victoria, University of, Canada: 3 worm slides (340459). 
Virgin Mining Company: 1 mineral (338110). 
Virginia Institute of Marine Science: 5 worms (338951); 13 crustaceans 

(319239, 340287); 16 fishes (340868). 
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 20 insect slides (338957). 
Virginia Chief Medical Examiner: human skeletal remains (338302); 2 human 

skulls (338303, 338304). 
Virginia State Library: human skeletal remains (338306). 
Volcani Center, Israel: 2 insect slides (338958). 
Washington, University of: 35 crustaceans (313464); 2 minerals (338744); 

Friday Harbor Laboratories: 76 echinoderms (333512, 339047, 339582); 

Herbarium: 1 plant (340821). 
Western Australian Museum, Australia: 25 mollusks (338433, exchange); 150 

mollusks (341019). 
Western Minerals: 3 minerals (340226, exchange). 

William and Mary College: 15 crustaceans, 1 mollusk, 16 worms (338479). 
Wisconsin, University of: 4 crustaceans (338607); 8 minerals (338745); Her- 
barium: 52 plants (336678, 337748, 337764, 340119); 108 plants (338911, 

exchange). 
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution: 1 echinoderm (338716); 14 crusta- 
ceans, 20 worms (339295); 3 crustaceans, 546 worms (339828); 60 fossils 

(339865). 
Wright State University: 1 crustacean (339581). 
Wyoming, University of: 1 mammal (341487). 
Yale University: 51 mammals (339349); Peabody Museum of Natural History: 

1,309 birds (341245); 263 reptiles and amphibians (339349). 
Yokosuka City Museum, Japan: 1 fish (339297). 
Zoologisk Museum, Denmark: 2 mollusks (340559). 

INDIVIDUALS 

Dr. Robert E. Acciavatti: 70 beetles (337902, exchange). 

P. J. Adams: 2 minerals (341270). 

Dr. Joachim Adis: 13 beetles (338967). 

Dr. David G. Ainley: 51 bird skeletons (340887). 

Benito Alarcon F.: 1 mollusk (337345). 

Dr. Robert T. Allen: 7 beetles (341591). 

Dr. Ted T. Allen: 2 bird skeletons (339982). 

Roger A. Anderson: 1 fossil horse skull and a molar (339165). 

Dr. Susan Anderson: 4 minerals (338750, 339927). 

Anonymous: 1 Chinese embroidered wall hanging (339404). 

Dr. Lorenzo F. Aristarain: 2 minerals (336855, 338276); 1 mineral (340626, 

exchange). 
Mrs. Andrea Armstrong: 231 insects (341602). 
John S. Ash: 1 bird (341724). 
Dr. Sidney R. Ash: 50 fossil plants (339577). 
Col. Whitney Ashbridge: 1 piece of Samoan tapa cloth (339401). 



504 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Wallace L. Ashby: fossil seal remains (339318). 

Dr. Allan Ashworth: 20 insects (339967). 

Dr. William R. Atchley: 65 insects (341239). 

Dr. Thomas H. Atkinson: 4 beetles (340875). 

Rod Attrill: 1 frog (338630). 

James R. Bain: 2 skeletons and 1 embryo of free-tailed bats (341210). 

Peter Ballman: 1 fossiliferous limestone (340952). 

Harold H. Banks, Jr.: 9 minerals (338785). 

Dr. Richard M. Baranowski: 12 lace bugs (338982). 

Carlos P. Barbosa: see Roebling Fund. 

Dr. Frederick S. Barkalow, Jr.: 250 mammals, 18 bound theses and reprints 

(333244). 
Dr. Fred A. Barkley: 9 plants (338931). 
John Barlow: 1 mineral (337423). 
Roger Barnett: 6 minerals (337418). 
Dr. Thomas C. Barr: 2 centipedes (338988). 
Luizhelio Barreto: 3 minerals (338751). 

Juan Enrique Barriga: 472 beetles (340908, 341030, exchange). 
John Baum: 4 minerals (338741, 341256). 
Dr. Richard W. Baumann: 18 insects (338343). 
Dr. Frederick M. Bayer: 1,000 marine mollusks (335760). 
Dr. Richard A. Bazzoni: 3 minerals (338747). 
J. H. Beach: 73 beetles (339968). 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald C. Beatty, Sr. : three-fifths undivided interest in the 

Jivaro Indian Collection (341779). 
Dr. Harold H. Beaver: 7 fossils (339343). 
Dr. Robert C. Bechtel: 50 lace bugs (338340). 
Alan F. Beede: 1 covered basket (339417). 
Alberto Bersani: 2 minerals (339544, exchange). 
Julio L. Betancourt: 25 insects (341593). 
Cheryl Bevensee: see Morgan Bevensee. 

Morgan Bevensee, Sean Bevensee, and Cheryl Bevensee: 1 squirrel (341115). 
Sean Bevensee: see Morgan Bevensee. 
Vijay Bhargava: 1 brass betel nut cutter (339413). 
Harvey S. Biddle: 5 minerals (341304). 
Richard A. Bideaux: 2 minerals (334474); 1 gem (338613). 
Dr. Robert Bieri: 44 crustaceans (340512). 
Mrs. Howard Bingham: 1 piece Samoan tapa (339415). 
Charles Birkeland: 3 echinoderms (337551). 
Estate of Mrs. Doris Holmes Blake: 300 mollusks, 7 crustaceans (338819); 61 

insects (341575). 
Andre Blanchard: 1,010 moths (338966, 338997, 339422, 341599). 
Francis S. Blasdell: 6 salamander skeletons (338762). 
Charles D. Blome: 184 fossil slides (340215). 
Warren C. Blow: 76 mollusks (338055). 
Ronald L. Boatman: 1 mineral (337464). 
Arthur E. Bogan: 15 mollusks (337963). 
Dr. Gerald Boles: 3 stoneflies (341240). 
Dr. Patricia Bonamo: see Dr. James D. Grierson. 
David Bornet: 72 archer's thumb rings (338313). 
Dr. Robert Bouwer: 8 beetles (339709, exchange). 
Jeffrey Boyd: 29 centipedes (341581). 
Edward Myer Braiman: 3 gems (338638, 338639). 

Paul Brainard and Mrs. Pearl D. Brainard: engraved ostrich egg shell (338324). 
Eldon Branch: 7 fossils (337377). 

Tristao Valente e Branco: 118 beetles (339730, exchange). 
Mrs. Twila Bratcher: 1 mollusk (336926). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 505 



Dr. Gemot Bretschko: 3 echinoderms (335516). 

George Brewer: 25 minerals (336957, 338722, 338827); 4 minerals (340227, 

340522, exchange). 
Cheryl Bright: 2 worms (340084, 340211). 
Dr. Robert W. Brink: 2 gems (338783). 
E. E. Brown: 2 frogs (340708). 
Helmut Bruckner: 1 mineral (341278, exchange). 
W. C. Brumbach: 76 plants (340134). 

Percival F. Brundage: 5 Japanese carvings and ceramics (338311). 
Dr. W. R. Bryant: 2 gems (338808). 
Dr. R. E. Bugbee: 29,040 insects (338973). 
Dr. Daniel Bernard Bull: 686 bird eggs and nests (329764). 
Dr. T. E. Bunch: 1 meteorite (328812). 

Beatrice L. Burch: 6 crustaceans (336327); 1 worm (341102). 
Dr. E. A. J. Burke: 5 minerals (341257). 
Dr. James Burnett-Herkes : 2 mollusks (336927). 
Dr. John J. Burns: see Dr. Francis H. Fay. 
Dr. John M. Burns: 1,571 butterflies (338998). 
Arthur J. Burstein (Deceased) : see Maxwell Burstein. 
Barnet Burstein: see Maxwell Burstein. 
Hyman Burstein: see Maxwell Burstein. 
Maxwell Burstein, Arthur J. Burstein (Deceased), Barnet Burstein, and Hyman 

Burstein: a platinum, diamond and sapphire ring, a platinum and diamond 

bracelet, a platinum and diamond brooch, a yellow-gold ring (337910). 
Dr. Donald B. Cadien: 90 crustaceans (337648). 
Dr. J. Maldonado Capriles: 806 insects (329596, 341237). 
Dr. Iosif Capuse: 15 butterflies (341227). 
Dr. David C. Carlson: 7 beetles (339963). 

Dr. Michele Catti and Dr. Marinella Franchini- Angela : 1 mineral (339543). 
Dr. Peter Cerny: 1 mineral (340232, exchange). 
Luisa Martinez Chacon: 8 fossils (340890, exchange). 
Dr. C. Kent Chamberlain: 7 fossils (341038). 
Dr. Steven M. Chambers: 113 mollusks (337930). 
Dr. Jack H. Chandler, Jr.: 50 mollusks (333096); 2 crayfish (339844). 
M. R. Chappell: 9 mollusks (338671). 
Dr. Richard Chase: 2 basalts (339001). 
Dr. Hu Cheng-zhi: 11 minerals (339546, exchange). 
Dr. Richard H. Chesher: 8 mollusks, 12 echinoderms (340618). 
Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu: 13 gems (337460, 338609). 
Samuel J. Ciura, Jr.: 4 fossils (341182). 
Ailsa M. Clark: 2 echinoderms (340483). 
Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke: 201 insects (341590). 
Dr. Kerry B. Clarke: 7 mollusks (337665, 339539). 
Dr. Malcolm R. Clarke: 15 fossils (339640). 
Dale H. Clayton: 1 red bat (337098). 
Kathryn A. Coates: 14 worm slides (338395). 
Rick Coffey: see David Cramer. 

Dr. William P. Coffman and Bernard G. Swegman: 21 caddisflies (341613). 
Dr. James E. Conkin: 19 fossils (338436). 
Mr. and Mrs. Reginald W. F. Conway: 1 gem (338678). 
Mrs. Howard Cook: 1 nephrite bowl (338769). 
John W. Cooper: 10 mollusks (341164). 
Herbert Corbett: 3 minerals (337947). 
Mrs. Frances B. Cornell: 1 opal brooch and 1 turquoise and silver necklace 

(338807). 
Robert F. Correia: 1 fossil clam (338057). 
Dieter Cosman: 1 mollusk (337482). 



506 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Mrs. Phyllisann Hibben Courtis: 7 cornhusk dolls (340872). 
Dr. Jean Michel Cousteau: 2 sponges (324892). 

David Cramer, Rick Coffey, and Steve Heaton: 1 fossil rib (339286). 
Don Crissinger: 1 fossil upper jaw (339642). 
Jarrett L. Cross: 5,639 insects (338999). 
Dr. Alain Crossnier: 15 echinoderms (318805). 
Dr. E. J. Cunningham: 7 gems (338719). 
Edward B. Cutler: 16 worms (338822). 

Dr. Bruce E. Dahrling II: 1 gem (338717); 27 minerals (339116). 
Dr. Steven P. Darwin: 1 plant (340819). 
Dr. Brijraj K. Das: 1 hornblende-garnet rock (340669). 
Jim Davidson: 1 fossil seal tooth (339101). 
Dr. and Mrs. Donald R. Davis: 2,303 insects (338996). 
L. Nevil Davy: 3 gems (338612). 
George E. Dean: 1 gem (338772). 
T. Deans: 1 mineral (337463). 

Dr. Roger-Paul Dechambre: 5 beetles (340599, exchange). 
Dennis M. DeLeo: 1 gem (338680). 
Dr. Michel Deliens: 1 mineral (340724, exchange). 
Genoveva deMahien: see A. Lucia Gamba. 
Earl A. Dennis: 1 flax skirt (339411). 
Dr. D. L. Deonier: 2,216 insects (339973). 
Dr. Deborah M. Dexter: 4 worms (337841). 
Robert T. Dodd: 18 meteorites (339975, exchange). 
Dr. Donald V. Doell: 1 mineral (340731). 
George H. Dorcy: worms (340024). 
Laurence J. Dorr: 11 skipper butterflies (338344). 
Robert Dow: 8 minerals (337478). 
Dr. Dee S. Dundee: 6 mollusks (336276). 
Daphne F. Dunn: 2 echinoderms (339197). 

Mrs. Ruth Dunn: 1 bamboo quiver and 8 blowgun darts (339412). 
Dr. Joseph M. Dzik: 2 gems (338681). 
Shigeru Eda: 100 beetles (338336, exchange). 
Alan G. Eddy: 515 mollusks (267339). 
Dr. D. W. Edmonds: 1 insect (341584). 

Bruce M. Edsall: 1 platinum, diamond, and sapphire bracelet (338275). 
Gary Edson: 1 mineral (337498). 
David D. Eidahl: 2 gems (338059, exchange). 
Profesor Thomas Eisner: 10 insects (338990). 
Dr. K. C. Emerson: 1,418 lice slides (339969). 

Louise H. Emmons: 65 assorted squirrels and 1 African porcupine (341209). 
O. J. Emory, Jr.: 42 pieces of Siamese ceramic wares (338310). 
Dr. Dodge Engleman: 26 ground beetles (338992); 1 insect (341588). 
Dr. W. G. Ernst: 14 eclogitic rocks (339424). 
Christer Erseus: 11 worm slides (338396). 
Linda Escobar: 6 plants (338129, 336638). 
R. Michael Ewing: 3 worms (341122). 
Dr. Muriel Fairon-Demaret: see Professor Maurice Streel. 
John H. Fales: 6 skipper butterflies (338345). 
Al Falster: 36 minerals (338092). 

Dr. Francis H. Fay and Dr. John Burns: 2 ribbon seals (341530). 
Dr. Lawrence H. Feldman: 22 mollusks (336002, 338082, 339942). 
Dr. Douglas C. Ferguson: 2,226 moths (338995). 
Dr. George E. Ferguson: 5 insects (339871). 
Dr. Dan Feriozi: 1 diamond and ruby ring (338683). 

Dr. and Mrs. Leo S. Figiel and Dr. and Mrs. S. J. Figiel: pair of Indian palace 
doors (338308). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 507 



Dr. and Mrs. S. J. Figiel: see Dr. and Mrs. Leo S. Figiel. 

Dr. Cabell B. Finch: 1 mineral (341267). 

Penny Firth: 20 insects (338962). 

Ronald R. Firth: 1 opal (338079). 

Elaine Fisher: 11 worms (336921). 

Dr. John W. Fitzpatrick: 3 bird skins (339428). 

Carol M. Flint: 613 mosquitoes (341236). 

Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr.: 192 insects (338970); see also Dr. Paul Spangler 

(337803). 
Dr. George W. Folkers: 4 beetles (341598). 
George C. Fonger: 3 fossil bird bones (338401). 
Dr. Helen P. Foreman: 12,000 fossils, 1,000 library items, 39 card files, and 4 

office material items (339826). 
Mrs. Regina Forrest: 1 fossil walrus jaw and 1 mastodon tooth (341459). 
Julie Fortin: 15,017 insects and arthropods (341535). 
Frank E. Fowler: 4 gems (339133). 
Mrs. Grace Fox: 1 Japanese bridal costume (340873). 
Dr. Marinella Franchini-Angela: see Dr. Michele Catti. 
Dr. J. H. Frank: 329 beetles (338354, 338972, 341578). 
Jack Frazier: 108 corals (337938). 

Mrs. Ethel Freeman: Cutler, Estate of: 176 ethnological items (319549). 
Dr. Herzl Friedlander: 1 carved jadeite vase (335946). 
Michael J. Friello: 1 brown bat (341118). 
Dr. Richard V. Gaines: 1 mineral (338826). 
Dr. Sergio Gallo: 15 minerals (338810). 
Professor A. Lucia Gamba and Profesor Genoveva deMahieu: 9 crustaceans 

(339340). 
George R. Ganis: 27 basalts and minerals (338726). 
Frank A. Garcia: 3 fossils (340554). 

Cecil B. Garrett (Deceased): 19,157 insects and 178 bird skins (337651). 
Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston: 1 gem (338786). 
Dr. Louis G. Gentner: 13,474 beetles (339419). 
Ewald Gerstmann: 17 minerals (337420, 338725, 339376). 
Lorenzo Orestes Giacomelli: 1 meteorite (339979). 
Dr. Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.: 1,850 insects (338070). 
Dr. Gordon G. Gibson: 5 clothing specimens (338312). 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Gill, Jr.: 2 minerals (338432). 
Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson: 1 opal (338784). 
Mr. and Mrs. David M. Glassman: 1 gem (338080). 
Dr. Peter W. Glynn: 5 mollusks and 2 echinoderms (337412). 
Dr. Robert M. Goll: 36 fossils (337327, 339960) . 
Michael Golubev: 2 lizards and 1 salamander (334147). 
Tracy Goss: 11 calcareous clay concretions (338331). 
Stephen Gott: 4 gems (338673). 
Richard Grasby: 8 minerals (340027). 
L. P. Grey: 32 butterflies (338334). 

Dr. James D. Grierson and Dr. Patricia Bonamo: 3 fossils (337354, exchange). 
Dr. Ashley B. Gurney: 2,295 leafhoppers (338346). 
Diana Gutierrez: 5 cretaceous slabs (338440). 
Roger A. Haick: 8,431 stoneflies (338333). 
Dr. Robert W. Hamilton: 3 weevils (340904). 
Darelyn Handley: 86 mollusks (325027). 
Gunnar H. Hansen: 1 mineral (338804, exchange). 
Dr. Kazuo Harada: 2 minerals (340920, exchange). 
M. G. (Jerry) Harasewych: 4 mollusks (339223). 
Dr. Alan Hardy: 9 beetles (339420). 
Jerry David Hardy: 17 mammals (338538). 



508 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Maj. Harold J. Harlan: 579 insects (338352, 341579). 
Peter J. Harmatuk: 16,337 fossils (338624). 
Mike Harper: 1 mineral (337450). 
Richard V. Harrison, Esq.: 17 crustaceans (318136). 
J. P. Hartley: 11 worms (338321). 
Mr. and Mrs. L. G. Hasty: 1 crustacean (337330). 
Dr. Marea Hatziolos: 5 crustaceans (340025). 
Richard Hauck: 50 minerals (336868, 337511, 340629). 
Ken Hayes: 100 echinoderms (310855). 
Martha Hays: 5 birds (341623). 
Dr. Bruce W. Hayward: 3 fossils (341166). 
John S. Hayward: 2 gems (338752). 

Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen: 1 ruby and diamond ring (338404). 
Dr. Jerry W. Heaps: 16 insects (338979). 
Steve Heaton: see David Cramer. 
Barbara Hecker: 14 echinoderms (338535). 
Harvard K. Hecker: 1 gem (336486). 
William Hein: 1 gem (338409). 
Roger Heitzman: 494 moths (339423). 
Roger L. Heitzman: 419 insects (341580). 
W. 5. Helmrich: 2 minerals (340951). 
Dr. Gordon Hendler: 30 crustaceans (337352). 
Edward L. Henning: 5 minerals (338636). 
Thomas J. Henry: 53 insects (337899). 
Dr. Jon L. Herring: 1,042 insects (338349). 
Dr. B. Herting: 1 fly (338956). 
Gary F. Hevel: 25,867 insects (339970, 339971). 
Hugo Hidalgo: 2 frogs (336077). 
Horton H. Hobbs III: 71 crustaceans (322034). 
Mrs. Elaine R. Hodges: 1,645 insects (341583, 341596). 
Dr. and Mrs. Ronald W. Hodges: 216 insects (341594). 
Dr. Robert C. Hoerle: 175,650 fossils (341565). 
Donald Hoff : 2 minerals (341255). 
Dr. Richard L. Hoffman: 204 centipedes (341606). 
L. Scott Hoopes: 8 gems (338718). 

Dr. Francis M. Hueber: 2 fossils (337358, 339193); 1 mole (341116). 
R. W. Husband: 17 insects (341235). 
W. R. B. Hynd: 2 flies (338965). 
Dr. and Mrs. Howard Ihrig: 4 gems (338682). 
Yoshirhiro Ikezski: 79 flower-flies (341345, exchange). 
Dr. Minoru Imajima: 2 worms (337790). 
Dr. Peter E. Isaacson: 182 fossils (339344). 
Mark Isaksen: 1 fossil mammoth tooth (340458). 
Sheryl L. Ives: 7 mammals (341119). 
Dr. Jeremy Jackson: 31 fossils (338949). 
Jeremy F. Jacobs: 312 amphibians and reptiles (333386). 
Dr. Maurice T. James: 4 flies (338987). 
Alan G. Jarrett: 14 mollusks (340058). 
Bruce C. Jayne: 31 snakes (338482). 
Kathe Jensen: 10 mollusks (339540). 
Dr. J. G. Johnson: 1 fossil (339148). 
Dr. Paul Johnson: 1 mineral (338327). 
Archie L. Jones: 65 snails (339106). 
Duval A. Jones: 4 frog skeletons (339614). 

Dr. Meredith L. Jones: 32 crustaceans, 1 echinoderm, 147 worms, and 35 mol- 
lusks (338088). 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Jones: 1 black pottery jar (339410). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 509 



Ken Jourdan: 16 echinoderms (326927). 

Peter Jump: 21 moths (339965). 

Dr. J. Just: 72 minerals (338721, exchange). 

Dr. Kenkichi Kanmiya: 58 flies (341342, exchange). 

Dr. Andrew E. Kasper, Jr.: 15 fossils (337357). 

Pieter Kat: 2 mollusks (340327). 

Dr. A. Kato: 9 minerals (339645, 340409). 

Kenji Kawaoka: 1 gem (338640). 

Mr. and Mrs. Mike Keck: 1 hornet-paper nest (341234). 

Dr. Klaus Keil: 7 meteorites (339976, exchange). 

Dr. Paul Keller: 4 minerals (337451, 339831). 

Richard N. Kelley: 1 mineral (338773). 

Rick Kienle: 4 Tephras (340882). 

Chong Yiew Kim: 1 crustacean (338789). 

C. P. Kimball: 177 insects (341577). 

Vernon Lee Kin: 1 mineral (337934). 

Dr. Elbert E. King: 1 meteorite (339977, exchange). 

Vandall T. King: 1 mineral (340400). 

Dr. Ralph F. Kirchner: 14 stoneflies (338348, 341611). 

Howard Kirk: 2 minerals (338283). 

Dr. D. H. Kisnter: 480 beetles (339421). 

Dr. Donald J. Klemm: 1 worm (341099). 

James E. Klijanowicz: 1 gem (338608). 

Dr. and Mrs. Richard Kloecker: 2 pairs of earrings (338684). 

James H. Kluckhohn: 1 bird skeleton (341624). 

Dr. Eugene I. Knez: see Bruce Huges Fund. 

Chris Knud-Hansen: 50 mollusks (340057). 

John Kolic: 43 minerals (337500, 337501, 337502, 338742, 339377, 341060, 

341502). 
Boris Kondratieff : 2 stoneflies (341719). 
Richard Kosnar: 1 mineral (337912). 
Rustam Z. Kothavala: 2 minerals (338728, exchange). 
Mrs. Alice Kraissl: 5 minerals (337512, 337935, 340230). 
Jon M. Kramer: 1 slab of fossil ferns (337317); 3 fossil beetles (338739). 
N. L. H. Krauss: 12 plants (337202); 5 worms, 3 mollusks, 19 crustaceans, 2 

echinoderms (339961); 1,001 insects (341582). 
Carl Krotki: 2 minerals (338675). 
Dr. Paul R. Krutak: 38 fossils (338757). 
Allan M. Kulakow: 69 butterflies (341232). 
Kenji Kurihara: 30,086 fossils and rocks (337299, exchange). 
Dr. Lawrence A. Lacey: 190 insects (338974). 
Dr. H. S. Ladd: 220 fossils (337360). 

Dr. D. Hille Ris Lambers: 3 insect slides (340699, exchange). 
Austin E. Lamberts: 2 crustaceans (313808). 
Mr. and Mrs. L. Kurt Land: 1 mineral (338679). 
Rinus Langeveld: 27 fossil echinoids (339031, exchange). 
Kathy Stemler Larson and Ronald J. Larson: 928 echinoderms (306358). 
Ronald J. Larson: see Kathy Stemler Larson. 
Thomas J. Larson: 1 bracelet (339409). 

William Larson: 1 mineral (338244, exchange); 1 mineral (338289). 
Dr. Douglas M. Lay: 17 mammals (340866). 
Mrs. Roxie C. Laybourne: 1 rabbit (340368). 
S. Howard Leblang: 1 gem (338676). 
Forrest B. Lee: 1 mollusk (337410). 
Dr. Harry G. Lee: 7 mollusks (337481, 340319). 
Dr. Weldon Lee: 4 echinoderms (317627). 



510 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Wayne Leicht: 1 mineral (339109). 

John Leslie: 1 worm, 3 mollusks, 13 crustaceans (336142). 

Dr. A. Lewvanich: 4 lace bugs (338353). 

Jerry Lewis: 289 crustaceans (319196, 327835). 

John R. H. Lightbourn: 1 echinoderm (338053). 

Robin G. Lighty: 4 corals (336914). 

Norman and Karen Lind: 5 bamboos (337237). 

David R. Lindberg: 100 mollusks (337608). 

Charlene D. Long: 500 worms (337842, 341100). 

Mrs. Marianela Brodzinsky Lopez-Penha: 1 fossil plant (341067). 

Arthur Loveridge: 3 mammals, 11 mollusks (338408). 

Richard S. Lovesy: fossil seal remains (340550). 

David H. Lubetzky: 1 opal (338771). 

Dr. F. S. Lukoschus: 2 insects (338980); 36 mite slides (341607, 341609). 

Randall W. Lundgren: 1 insect (339418). 

Orlando Lyman: 3 minerals (339925). 

Jack MacDonald: 5 minerals (337919). 

Dr. N. D. MacRae: 12 basalts (340668). 

Irene Magyar: 1 fossil (339959). 

Dr. Peter Major: 1,000 mollusks (334775). 

Dr. Leo J. Malone: 25 minerals (338748). 

Roger H. Marble: 4 minerals (336869). 

Dr. John C. Markham: 900 crustaceans (337962). 

Dr. Bruce A. Marshall: 4 mollusks (339672). 

Mrs. Elsie J. Marshall: 11 mollusks (338803). 

Dr. Joe T. Marshall: 1 bird skull (339002); 1 bird skeleton (341618). 

Mrs. Frances E. Martin: 2 knives with sheaths (339408). 

Jack Martin: 3 sandstone concretions (340954). 

Maria Martinez and Family: 8 pieces of pottery (338314). 

Dr. Brian H. Mason: 4 minerals (340437). 

Dr. Bruce A. Masters: 14 fossils (340975). 

Kazunosuke Masutomi: 131 minerals (337914). 

Bryant Mather: 6 moths (338342). 

Harold A. Mathiak: 78 clams (339671); 12 mollusks (340917). 

Dr. Wayne N. Mathis: 1,449 shore flies (338994). 

Melvin McClain: 2 fossils (339824). 

Oliver McConnell: 1 sponge (338054). 

Dr. F. J. D. McDonald: 1 stink bug (338961). 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul McElroy: 1 basket (338315). 

Dr. Noel McFarland: 14 moths (341229). 

Mrs. William McGilvery: 2 fossil seal teeth (339740). 

A. L. McGuinness: 4 minerals (340730). 

Dr. W. W. McGuire: 61 skipper butterflies (338968). 

Frank McKinney: 8 echinoderms (328692). 

E. S. McS weeny: 33 crustaceans (339838). 

Dr. James I. Mead: 1 bird (341625). 

Paul B. Merkel: 1 gem (338610). 

Dr. Charles Meyer, Jr.: 1 mineral (341268). 

Dr. Harding B. Michel: 3 echinoderms, 5 crustaceans, 5 fossils (340435). 

Dr. Julio Micheli: 1 beetle (341612). 

Nancy Jo Miles: 12 moths (340876). 

Dr. Steven A. Millendorf : 1 fossil (338824). 

Mrs. Sandy Miller: 1 gem and 1 mineral (338944). 

Dr. Walter B. Miller: 5 mollusks (336523, 341036). 

Les R. Mintes: 13 lacewings (338338). 

Dr. Joseph C. Mitchell: 6 salamanders (338483). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 511 



Dr. Akiho Miyashiro: 5 basalts (312134). 

Dr. Paul Mohr: 2 minerals (334930, exchange). 

Dr. A. Moldan: 1 crustacean (337944). 

Dr. Harold N. Moldenke: 1 plant (340136, exchange). 

Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Moldermaker: 1 topaz (338632). 

Dr. Warton Monteiro: 10 mollusks (339912). 

Donald R. Moore: 10 mollusks (339847). 

Dr. M. Patricia Morse: 1 mollusk (338085). 

Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins: 1 topaz (338611). 

Mrs. John Muntyan: 33 minerals (340322). 

Carol Matti Natella: 2 plants (336666). 

Charles H. Nelson: 1 stonefly (339158). 

Dr. Gayle H. Nelson: 1 beetle (338976). 

Dr. David N. Nettleship: 28 bird skins (341615). 

Dr. Nico Nieser: 53 true bugs (338361). 

Dr. P. H. Nixon: 7 akremite chips (340958). 

Dr. Bruce Nolf : 1 pumice (340884). 

Arnold W. Norden: 106 crustaceans (323439, 336336). 

Stuart A. Norton: 1 Polar bear skull (341117). 

Luis A. Nunez: 1 mineral (337462). 

Dr. Osborne B. Nye: 1,000 fossils (338616). 

Herbert Obodda: 2 minerals (337496, 341508). 

Dr. Charles W. O'Brien: 195 insects (341587). 

Dr. Storrs Olson: 2 bird skeletons (341626). 

Dr. Paul Opler: 323 butterflies (338337). 

Dr. W. L. Overal: 16 weevils (339121). 

Colin R. Owen: 1,268 insects and anthropods (338071, exchange); 8 crusta- 
ceans (338071); 132 insects (338360). 

Renato Pagano: 2 minerals (338809). 

Kay Page: 1 fossil shark tooth (338400). 

Dr. Allison R. Palmer: 221 Trilobites (339668); 5 fossils (340974). 

Dr. Tom Palmer: 1 mineral (341510). 

Fred Parker: 2 minerals (337454); 24 amphibians and reptiles (339615); 1 
mineral (341507). 

Dr. Kenneth C. Parkes: 1 bird skin (336751, exchange). 

Dr. Werner Parr: 2 minerals (339830). 

Joanne W. Patterson: 13 caddisflies (338335). 

Dr. Richard Pattrick: 1 mineral (339115). 

Dr. David L. Pearson: 12 beetles (341576). 

G. Pelizzone: 1 mineral (338727). 

Dr. J. Pericart: 6 lace bugs (338373). 

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest D. Perkins: 1 blackware pottery jar (339407). 

W. R. Persons: 1 sapphire (337552). 

Dr. Emile A. Pessagno: 24 fossils (339541). 

Daniel J. Peters: 10 crustaceans (337516). 

Dr. Gary L. Peters: 1 weevil (339983). 

Tom Peters: 7 minerals (339112, 341499). 

Richard E. Petit: 1 mollusk (336528). 

George Pigeon: 1 mineral (339111). 

William Pinch: 2 minerals and 9 gems (336960, 337461, 337918, 338946); 3 
minerals and 1 diamond (338477, exchange); 25 gems and minerals (339024, 
exchange). 

Dr. Donald J. Pletsch: 159 crustaceans (320341, 337099, 338480); 165 insects 
(341230). 

Dr. I. R. Plimer: 1 mineral (340521); 79 metamorphic rocks (340671). 

Martin Plotkin: 1 mineral (339542). 



512 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



John A. Plyler, Jr.: 6 frogs (333089). 

Dr. Robert Poole: 423 moths (341574). 

Leroy Poorman: 2 mollusks (340009). 

Walter Pople: 11 sponges (337508). 

Charles W. Potter: 1 bird (341627). 

Dr. Harry D. Pratt: 10 flower-flies (339716, exchange). 

Robert Prezant: 12 mollusks (336853). 

Dr. Wojciech Pulawski: 2 beetles (338969). 

Russell A. Rahn: 1,120 insects (338960, 339964, 341238, 341683). 

Judy B. Raynor: a fossil echinoid (338087); a fossil seal canine tooth (338625); 

2 fossil seal toe bones (340552). 
Mr. and Mrs. Ben 5. Read, Jr.: 1 mineral (338782). 
Dr. James Reddell: 2 insects (338341). 
Dr. Richard L. Reeder: 7 mollusks (337325). 
Dr. Harald A. Rehder: 1 mollusk (321133). 
Fr. C. V. Reichart: 7 insects (341233). 
Dr. John Reid: 1 garnet pyroxenite (340670). 
Eric Remole: 2 crustaceans (300440). 
Dr. Ronald N. Richmond: 2 gray pumice (339000). 
Mrs. Viola Ricketts: 2 ash samples (340948). 
Dr. Donald Riley: 5 amphibians and reptiles (335356). 

Dr. S. Dillon Ripley: 1 jadeite jade (337476); 4 ethnological items (339406). 
Dr. Saul Riesenberg: 13 adze blades and pestles (340871). 
Sylvia G. Roberts: 4 minerals (340733). 

George Robertson and Debbie Santavy: 250 corals (335226). 
Dr. A. G. Robinson: 5 insect slides (338975). 
Dr. Richard G. Rogers, Jr.: 44 minerals (338478). 
Dr. L. H. Rolston: 6 insects (341145). 
Franklin R. Ross: 65 frogs (335483). 
William H. Rowe: 871 insects (338985). 
R. D. Rubright: 1 mineral (339922). 
Dr. Curtis W. Sabrosky: 1,014 flies (341614). 
Desmond Sacco: 3 minerals (337497). 
Bryan L. Sage: 12 minerals (340523). 
Dr. Harold St. John: 1 plant (340183). 
Paul St. Pierre: 13 mollusks (340064). 
Dr. Kin-ichi Sakurai: 4 minerals (341509). 
Debbie Santavy: see George Robertson. 
Dr. Stuart L. Santos: worms (341101). 
Graham Saunders: 31 mollusks (338287). 
Dr. Norman Savage: 269 fossils (338626). 
Dr. Roy T. Sawyer: 700 leeches (339849). 
Dr. A. G. Scarbrough: 5 scorpion flies (338357). 
Dr. Joseph C. Schaffner: 1 insect (341586); 27 plant bugs (341601). 
Eugene Schlepp: 4 minerals (338245, exchange). 
Dr. Robert E. Schloesser: 1 brown algae (337189). 
Dr. K. Schmetzer: 1 mineral (340870). 
Dr. Justin Schmidt: 37 wasps (341720). 
Dr. Francis J. Schmitz: 7 echinoderms (337113). 
Vincent P. Schneider: a fossil seal toe bone and a fossil echnoid (337610); 3 

fossil seal items (340551). 
Richard Schooner: 64 minerals (337456, 340218). 
Dr. George A. Schultz: 34 crustaceans (334923). 
Edith E. Scott: 220 fossils (339192). 
Abel J. Selburn: 20 minerals (340524). 
Raymond D. Semlitsch: 16 salamander larvaes (340587). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 513 



Frank T. Sesock: 2 plants (338902, 340167). 

William Severance: 1 mineral (340323). 

Dr. A. J. Shelley: 10 blackflies (338954). 

J. W. Short: 1 fern (336647). 

Charles B. Shorter: 20 ethnological items (339416). 

Scott Silsby: 1 mineral (338363). 

Dr. Sunthorn Sirivanakarn: 14 insects (340879). 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery: 1 ruby and diamond ring (338720). 

David Smith: 2 minerals (335388). 

Mr. and Mrs. David S. Smith: 1 gem (338406). 

F. L. Smith: 1 mineral (337913); 10 minerals (340615, exchange). 

Frank Smith: 100 echinoderms (338947). 

Dr. James Keith Smith: 240 fossils (340482). 

Dr. Annelle R. Soponis: flies (338991). 

Richard C. Sorlien: an undivided one-half interest in gold (338758). 

Walter G. Sorrell: 1 bat (341120). 

Dr. Paul J. Spangler: 131 insects (341241); 2,341 water beetles (341589). 

Dr. Jon Standing: 10 crustaceans (340317). 

Dr. Ferdinand Starmuehlner: 1 sponge (338534). 

Norman H. Stavisky: 1 gem (338754). 

David Steadman: 53 bird skeletons (341243, 341628). 

Warren Steiner: 20 insects (338971). 

Warren E. Steiner: 130 insects (338332). 

Dr. and Mrs. David Steinhardt: 1 carved nineteenth-century white jadeite bowl 

(334526). 
Linda E. Stemmler: 2 turtle skeletons (338063). 
Piet Stemvers: 3 petrology and volcanology specimens (339425). 
Dr. Franz Stenzel: 1 canoe model, toggle harpoon line and basketry hat 

(339399). 
Dr. N. C. N. Stephenson: 6 minerals (338247). 
Wolfgang Sterrer: 2 echinoderms (336531). 
John Stewart: 7 minerals (337424). 
Suzanne Stewart: 1 scorpion (341608). 
Dr. Wendell J. Stewart: 14 fossil slides (337565). 
Dr. Jay D. Stone: 5 lace bugs (340878). 
Dr. M. J. Storey: 2 minerals (340555, exchange). 
Professor Maurice Streel and Dr. Muriel Fairon-Demaret : 2 fossils (337362, 

exchange). 
Robert Svecz: 62 minerals (337422, 337484, 337933, 338729, 339348, 341059). 
Bernard G. Swegman: 1,251 insects (341610); see also William P. Coffman. 
Clyde Swindell: 70 fossil bones (337378, 339100); 14 fossil birds and seals 

(340061). 
John Sylvester, Jr.: 1 bamboo "Jew's harp" (339405). 
Dr. J. L. Talbot: 11 lavas (340380). 
Dr. Dwight W. Taylor: 18 fossils (340008, 340288). 
Harold M. Taylor: 51 minerals (338278, 338672, 339547, 341288). 
Dr. Curt Teichert: 3 fossils (339881). 
Dr. Harry A. Ten Hove: 10 worms (337312). 
Dr. David J. Tepper: 3 minerals (337936). 
Dr. Leon Termin: 1 emerald (338806). 
Donald B. Thomas: 3 insects (341585, 341721). 
Dr. Richard W. Thorington, Jr.: 29 mammals (333407); 300 mollusks (339923); 

176 spiders (341722). 
Dr. Stephen G. Tilley: 651 salamanders (340236). 
Jean Trondle: 505 mollusks (337942). 
Dr. Walter R. Tschinkel: 25 insect larvaes (341231). 
Dr. D. Tuni: pumice samples (339981). 



514 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Dr. Ruth Turner: 4 mollusks (340556). 

Dr. Robert H. Turnbow, Jr.: 2 insects (340877). 

Mr. and Mrs. Milton Turner: 4 Ch'ing mineral carvings (337379); a three 

figured jade carving and a gold and jade pendant (333092). 
Lowell D. Uhler: 38 rodents (334692). 
Dr. Ing. C. van Achterberg: 2 insects (338375). 
Richard F. Van Cuyck: 1 mineral (338774). 
C. van Nidek: 3 insects (339966). 
Brad Van Scriver: 4 minerals (341263, exchange). 
Nadia Venedictoff : 5 butterflies (341718). 

William T. Vickers: 78 potsherds, potrests, and a stone ax head (338307). 
Dr. Emily H. Vokes: 108 fossils (338763, 338836). 
Dr. Gilbert Voss: 1 echinoderm (340321). 
Robert K. Waldron: 2 minerals (340610, exchange). 
Dr. Francis S. Walker: 178 minerals (338759). 
Don Ward: 1 fossil seal jaw (340553). 
Lady Ward: 1 fossil brittle star (340501). 
Bernard Wasley: 4 gems (336381). 
Dr. Douglas T. Watanabe: 49 minerals (338749). 
Peter B. Waters: 1 gem (339648). 
R. Preston Watts: 9 fossils (339045). 
Mrs. Charles H. Weber, Jr.: 3 minerals (340410). 
Mrs. Harriet H. Weller: 8 mollusks (340214). 
Dr. G. M. Wellington: 1 starfish (336334). 
Dr. John Wells: 4 echinoderms (340369). 
Dr. Christen M. Wemmer: 2 sloth bears (341220). 
Robert F. Wenzel: 1 gem (338635). 
James Westgate: 12 fossils (339827). 
Dr. G. C. Wheeler: 12 beetles (338563). 
Quentin D. Wheeler: 17 beetles (341604). 
Dr. Donald Whitehead: 176 beetles (341228). 
Thomas E. Whiteley: 44 insects (338650). 
W. Wiezlak: 216 insects (338355, exchange). 
Dr. D. Dee Wilder: 1,352 flies (341715). 
Dr. Martin Wiley: 237 crustaceans (333507). 
Leonard J. Wilkinson: 438 minerals (331796). 
Dr. James D. Williams: 21 mollusks (339673). 
Dr. Larry David Wilson: 5 frogs (338543). 
Horst Windisch: 1 mineral (337421). 
Charles Winters: 10 minerals (340630). 
Charles P. Withrow: 4 insects (338977). 
Edgar A. Womble, Jr.: 1 fossil seal (338402). 
Russ Wood: 1 fossil (340062). 
Bryan Woodard: 2 crustaceans (337095, 338281). 
Kirk Woods-Denkler: 150 mollusks (337344). 
Jim Woolley: 50 wasps (338993). 
Cal Yorke: 25 frogs (339921). 
Dr. Frank N. Young: 294 beetles (341592). 
Jack Young: 1 mineral (339761). 
Orrey P. Young: 342 beetles (339972). 
Dr. Norman W. Youngsteadt: 6 crustaceans (340692). 
Victor Yount: 11 minerals (339110). 
Dr. Yu: 1 Korean silk banner (339403). 
Frank G. Zalom: 90 beetles (338359). 

D. H. Zibrowius: 10 echinoderms and 1 crustacean (339248). 
Dr. William J. Zinsmeister: 128 fossils (337326, 339378). 
Mr. and Mrs. Julius Zweibel: 2 minerals (337483). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 515 



NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

Donors of Financial Support 

Ms. Nancy Beebe 
Mr. Rodion Cantacuzene 
Mrs. Caroline A. Hassan 
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Lovelett 
Mortar Board Alumnae Association 
of Washington, D.C. 

Grants 
Eugene and Agnes Meyer Foundation 
Friends of the National Zoo 1 



Miss Cathy Schreiner and friends 
Mrs. Halbert M. Sloat 
Mr. Kenhelm W. Stott 
Miss Helen R. Thompson 
Ms. Shirley E. Walker 



National Geographic Society 
National Institute of Mental Health 



SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 



Donors of Financial Support 

Atherton Seidell Endowment Fund 
EXXON Corporation 
Henry B. and Grace Doherty 
Foundation 

Restricted Trust Fund Donor 



James Smithson Society 
The Nature Conservancy 
Rare Animal Relief Effort 



Tupper Foundation 



HISTORY AND ART 

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART 
Donors of Financial Support 

$10,000 AND ABOVE 

The Adolph Foundation 

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney 

Mr. Richard H. Manoogian 

$5,000 AND ABOVE 

Mrs. William L. Richards 

$1,000 AND ABOVE 

Anonymous 

The Bundy Foundation 

Mr. John B. Coleman 

Mrs. Lucile Daum 

Mrs. Albert DeSalle 

Mr. and Mrs. Saul Dunitz 

Mr. and Mrs. Joel S. Ehrenkranz 

Mr. Edwin Firestone 

Walter and Josephine Ford Fund 

Dr. and Mrs. Henry Foster 

Garfinckel, Brooks Brothers, 

Miller & Rhoads, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn 
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Hoover 
Mrs. Dorothy Johnson 
La Boucherie Bernard Ltd. 



The L. J. Skaggs Foundation 



Mr. and Mrs. Howard Lipman 

Mr. and Mrs. William A. Marsteller 

Dr. and Mrs. Abraham Melamed 

Mr. and Mrs. William Mitchell 

Mr. and Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer 

Mr. and Mrs. Hall J. Peterson 

Mrs. Albrecht Saalfield 

Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick A. Sharf 

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth 

Mr. A. Alfred Taubman 

Nina W. Werblow Charitable Trust 

The Wyeth Endowment for 

American Art 
Woodward and Lothrop 



1 These funds were earned by Friends of the National Zoo, according to their 
provision of public service under contract to the Smithsonian Institution. 



516 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



$500 AND ABOVE 

Anonymous 

Anonymous 

Mrs. James H. Beal 

Mrs. Ann W. Brewer 

Mr. and Mrs. Saul Z. Cohen 

William and Martha Ford Fund 

Mrs. James L. Goodwin 

Mrs. Margaret C. Guillard 

Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison 



John and Ella Imerman Foundation 

Mrs. Lucille Mclntyre Jewett 

Mrs. Annaline Levi 

Miss Alice L. Norris 

Mrs. Harris Oppenheimer 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas L. Schoenith 

Mrs. Mary-Leigh Smart 

Mrs. Claire A. Williams 



$100 AND ABOVE 

Mr. Hale R. Allen 

Mr. Arthur Altschul 

Mrs. Ecetra Nippert Ames 

Mr. and Mrs. J. Denton Anderson 

Mr. Wendell W. Anderson 

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Ash 

Ms. Edith M. Aufiero 

Mr. and Mrs. Philip H. Augerson 

Mr. and Mrs. Louis C. Baker 

Mr. Richard Brown Baker 

Mr. W. N. Banks 

Mrs. Joseph Baumgold 

Mr. and Mrs. Bernhard G. Bechhoefer 

Dr. and Mrs. James Stephen Benedict 

Mrs. James A. Beresford 

Mr. and Mrs. Philip J. Berman 

Mrs. Anna H. Bing 

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore D. Birnkrant 

Mrs. Emil Bisttram 

Mr. and Mrs. H. Glenn Bixby 

Mr. and Mrs. Alan Blinken 

Mr. Paul Borman 

Mr. R. Wallace Bowman 

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Bradley 

Dr. and Mrs. William J. Briggs 

Mrs. David R. C. Brown 

Mrs. George R. Brown 

Mr. J. Lawrence Buell, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. John Lee Bunce 

Business Automation 

Chapellier Galleries 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Clark 

Mrs. James H. Clement 

Mrs. Janet H. Coors 

Mr. Gardner Cowles 

Dr. and Mrs. Burnill Crohn 

Mrs. Susan L. Cullman 

Miss Ruth Cumming 

Mrs. Chester Dale 

Mr. and Mrs. Weiner Dannheisser 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Danziger 

Mrs. Mary Mallery Davis 

Mrs. Elizabeth DeCuevas 



Ms. Lois M. DeDomenico 

Mrs. Gladys Krieble Delmas 

Mr. Robert L. Dewar 

Mr. Martin Diamond 

Mr. C. Douglas Dillon 

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Doan 

Mrs. Amy Dobronyi 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Doerer 

Mrs. John C. Dorn 

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Dyer 

DuMouchelle Art Gallerie 

Mr. Gerald S. Elliott 

Elsmere Foundation, Inc. 

Mrs. Allan D. Emil 

Mr. Arthur D. Emil 

Mr. and Mrs. George Endicott 

Jimmy and Dallas Ernst 

Mrs. James Espy 

Mr. Bayard Ewing 

Ms. Sherry Evans 

Fairweather-Hardin Gallery 

Mr. and Mrs. Burton Farbman 

Mrs. Rodman Fay 

Mr. and Mrs. Porter Fearey 

Fischbach Gallery 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Fisher 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter W. Fisher 

The Janet and Mortimer Fleishhacker 

Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Fraad 
Mr. and Mrs. Ivan Frankel 
Mr. and Mrs. Marshall M. 

Fredericks 
Mrs. Frank Freed 
Mrs. John S. French 
Mr. and Mrs. B. H. Friedman 
Mr. Glenn H. Friedt, Jr. 
Miss Elizabeth H. Fuller 
G & D Communications Corp. 
Mr. and Mrs. Kennedy B. Galpin 
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty 
Mrs. Charles Gilman 
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Glen 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 517 



Mr. and Mrs. Seth M. Glickenhaus 

Mrs. Ralph Goldenberg 

Mr. and Mrs. Abner Goldstone 

Mr. Alan L. Gornick 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederic J. Graber 

Mr. Charles M. Grace 

The Gramercy Park Foundation 

Mrs. B. Thomas Green 

Dr. and Mrs. Frank Greene 

Mr. and Mrs. Lester Gruber 

Mrs. Franz Grunbaum 

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall 

Mr. Robert H. Halff 

Mr. Joseph Hardy 

Mr. and Mrs. E. Jan Hartmann 

Mrs. Anita V. Hiller 

Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Hoiles 

The David Hokin Foundation 

Mrs. Grace Garden Hooker 

Mr. Stephen Horn II 

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz 

Mrs. J. Stewart Hudson 

Mr. Frederick G. L. Huetwell 

Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Hulings 

Mrs. William M. Hume 

Mr. and Mrs. James Humphry III 

Miss Milka Iconomoff 

International Business Machines Corp. 

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Iselin 

Mrs. Harrison Ivancovich 

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert H. Jacob 

Dr. and Mrs. David Jacknow 

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Johnson 

Mrs. Ruth Carter Johnson 

Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Jones 

Mrs. Virginia W. Kampf 

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kaplan 

Mr. Sidney S. Kaplan 

The Landsman and Katz Foundation 

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Katzman 

Mrs. Jean R. Kelley 

Mrs. R. L. Kemper 

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall 

Kennedy Galleries 

Mrs. Charles Kessler 

Mrs. David L. Klein 

Mr. John Klingenstein 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod 

Mrs. Barbara Krakow 

Mr. Nate Krause 

Mr. Peter Kriendler 

Mrs. Roger M. Kyes 

The Lachaise Foundation 

Mrs. Richard E. Lang 

Dr. William A. Lang 

Mr. Modesto Lanzone 



Dr. and Mrs. Michael Lapadula 

Mrs. Rodney Layton 

Mrs. Rensselaer W. Lee 

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Lehrman 

Dr. and Mrs. Irving H. Leopald 

Mrs. Janice H. Levin 

Mrs. Leonard Levine 

Mrs. Stanley K. Levison 

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Lewis 

Dr. Marjorie Lewisohn 

Mr. and Mrs. Karl A. Limbach 

Mr. Lars Eric Lindblad 

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Linden 

Mr. Howard F. Linder 

Mrs. Arthur M. Long 

Mr. Meredith Long 

Mr. and Mrs. Harold O. Love 

Mrs. Madeleine M. Low 

Mr. Earle Ludgin 

Mr. and Mrs. Russell Lynes 

Mr. David Hunter McAlpin 

Mr. Porter A. McCray 

Mrs. Eugene McDermott 

Mr. and Mrs. John D. Mack 

Mr. James T. McKay 

Mrs. Hiram McKee 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. McNeil, Jr. 

Mrs. Elizabeth H. Maddux 

Magonan Family Foundation 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manney 

Mrs. Edward Marcus 

Robert and Betty Marcus 

Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Maveety 
Mr. and Mrs. Louis K. Meisel 
Mrs. Anna K. Meredith 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Merriam 
Drs. Paul and Laura Mesaros 
Mrs. Barbara B. Millhouse 
Mr. and Mrs. Irving J. Minett 
Mr. and Mrs. A. Minowitz 
Mrs. Carleton Mitchell 
Dr. and Mrs. Coleman Mopper 
Mr. Raymond D. Nasher 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter A. Netosh 
Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Neuberger 
New Hermes Foundation 
Mrs. Annalee Newman 
Mr. John C. Nicholls 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Nine 
Mrs. Dorothy Norman 
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Orosknik 
Mr. Edward H. Osgood 
Mr. Alfonso Ossorio 
Mrs. Leonard Oster 
Mr. L. Vere Peter Page 



518 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Mrs. E. Bliss Parkinson 

Mrs. Henry Pearlman 

Mr. Charles R. Penney 

Perles Galleries 

Mrs. Donald A. Petrie 

Mr. Gifford Phillips 

Mr. and Mrs. Laughlin Phillips 

Mrs. Herbert Polacheck 

Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky 

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Poplack 

Mr. and Mrs. M. P. Potamkin 

Col. and Mrs. Kai Rasmussen 

Mrs. Dorothy H. Rautbord 

Mrs. Dana M. Raymond 

Mrs. Michael M. Rea 

Mr. Raphael Recanati 

Mr. and Mrs. Edgar P. Richardson 

Mr. and Mrs. Chapin Riley 

Drs. Ulrich O. and Barbara Ringwald 

Mr. David Rockefeller 

Mrs. John D. Rockefeller 

Rogoco Foundation 

Mrs. Ednah Root 

Mr. Robert P. Rosenberg 

Mrs. Alan H. Rosenthal 

Mrs. Joseph Rubin 

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Rubin 

Mrs. Madeleine H. Russell 

Mrs. Ann McGovern Scheiner 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Scheuer 

Mr. and Mrs. Abbott K. Schlain 

Mr. and Mrs. Allan B. Schmier 

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas A. Schubot 

Mrs. Gertrude Schweitzer 

Ms. Sarita Seid 

Mr. and Mrs. Carl Selden 

Mr. Stephen Shalom 

Mr. and Mrs. Alger Shelden 

Mrs. Harvey S. Sherber 

Mrs. Charles P. Slater 

George M. and Mabel H. Slocum 

Foundation 
Mrs. J. Scott Smart 
Mrs. Lawrence C. Smith 



Mrs. Elizabeth C. Snyder 

Mr. and Mrs. Maury L. Spanier 

Mr. Ira Spanierman 

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Spear 

Mrs. Girard Spencer 

Mr. and Mrs. Mark C. Stevens 

Mr. and Mrs. S. Sidney Stoneman 

Mr. and Mrs. Bayard Storey 

Mrs. Philip Straus 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Straus 

Mr. Emanuel M. Sulkes 

Mr. and Mrs. Albert Susman 

Mr. Jack Greer Taylor 

Mr. Eugene V. Thaw 

Mrs. Rose Tishman 

Mrs. William C. Tost 

Mr. and Mrs. Lynn A. Townsend 

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond S. Troubh 

Mrs. Hooper Truettner 

Mr. and Mrs. W. Anthony Ullman 

Mrs. Helen J. Urban 

Miss Berta Walker 

Mr. C. Carter Walker, Jr. 

Mrs. Hudson D. Walker 

Ms. Suzanne Walker 

Mr. Edward M. M. Warburg 

Mrs. Alan Washburn 

Mrs. W. C. Ward 

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Wasserman 

Mrs. Paul L. Wattis 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Weinstein 

Mrs. Elaine G. Weitzen 

Mr. Michael A. Wertheimer 

Mr. and Mrs. Victor Wertz 

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Westheimer 

Mr. and Mrs. R. J. Williams 

Mr. and Mrs. Clarence J. Woodward 

Mr. and Mrs. Warren R. Woodward 

Mr. and Mrs. LeRoy H. Wulfmeier 

Mrs. Melvin C. Yocum 

Mrs. Roslyn D. Young 

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Young, Jr. 

Mrs. Guri Lee Zeckendorf 

Mr. A. Robert Zeff 



COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM 
Donors of Financial Support 

$10,000 and above 

Stephen Brener 

Helen Buckner 

Janet Annenberg Hooker 

J. M. Kaplan Fund 



Karen J. Keland 

New York State Council on the Arts 

Arthur Ross Foundation 

Estate of D. Lorraine Yerkes 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 519 



$1,000 and above 

The Anaconda Company 

Louis W. Bovven 

The Bristol-Myers Fund 

Brunschwig & Fils, Inc. 

Conde-Nast Publications 

Consolidated Edison of New York 

Copper Development Association 

Corning Glass 

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Corroon 

Priscilla Cunningham 

Mrs. Gordon P. Getty 

Gilman Paper Company 

Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, Inc. 

August Heckscher 

Mrs. Sally Faile Jeancon 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Heilbrunn 

Johnson & Higgins 

Johnson, Matthey Inc. 

Andrea K. Keland 

Karen H. Keland 



Frederick R. Koch 

Lee/Jofa 

Lenox, Inc. 

Mrs. Jack Linsky 

Mrs. Phyllis Massar 

Mrs. Elizabeth R. Mcintosh 

Phelps-Dodge Company 

Scalamandre 

Stavropoulos Corporation 

Joseph E. Seagrams and Sons 

Steelcase, Inc. 

Sterling Silversmiths Guild 

of America 
Skidmore, Owings & Merrill 
Florence Louchheim Stol Foundation 
Vice Versa 

Wallcovering Information Bureau 
Ralph J. Weiler Foundation 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
Workbench, Inc. 



$500 and above 

Mr. Paul P. Accetta 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Adler 

Amicus Foundation 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas S. Brush 

Anne S. Dayton 

Mrs. Joanne DuPont 

The Henfield Foundation 

Deborah S. Mandeville 



Ms. Elinor Merrell 
Mrs. Janos Scholz 
Stroheim & Romann 
Exhibition Sponsors 
Intercoiffure America 
Philip Morris, Inc. 
Xerox Corporation 



Gifts of Objects and Donors to the Collection 

A total of 3,295 objects were given by 92 donors during the period October 1, 
1979, through September 31, 1980. Among the most important are the 
following: 

Mr. Thomas Carnese: signed Louis Comfort Tiffany "Agate" vase, late nine- 
teenth century. 
Mr. Edward Lee Cave: the complete contents of a research library of decorative 

arts. 
Mr. and Mrs. John Corroon: an early nineteenth-century American three-mold 

blown pitcher. 
Pricilla Cunningham: a lithograph by Michael Knigin, 53 Stations of the 

Tokaido. 
Mr. Frank Haines: 12 puppets from The Chinese Nightingale and Martin 

Chuzzelwit. 
Mrs. Norris W. Harkness: a six-piece sterling silver tea and coffee service 

made by Bailey, Banks and Biddle of Philadelphia, c. 1888. 
S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc.: a knitted hanging by Mary Walker Phillips, Near 

East No. 2. 
Mr. Roger Kennedy: a seven-piece place setting of China designed by Frank 

Lloyd Wright for the Imperial Hotel, Tokyo, Japan; 3 Louis Sullivan door 

plates and knobs, late nineteenth-century metalwork. 



520 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Knoll International: a print by Robert Venturi, Knoll Center Ceiling Design. 

Mrs. Orin Lehman: the collection of eighteenth-century French, German, and 
English porcelains. 

Mrs. Albert A. List: an etching by Robert Conover, Collapse of Erie Pier 48. 

Mr. Joseph McCrindle: 6 drawings — 1 Bolognese seventeenth-century ceiling 
design, 3 French nineteenth-century designs for Sevres plates, 1 French 
nineteenth-century Apotheosis of Marie Antoinette, 1 French eighteenth- 
century book illustration — 3 French eighteenth-century prints after Boiche- 
grain; 1 nineteenth-century silver-plated plaque. 

Marimekko, Inc. : a collection of fabrics produced by Marimekko. 

Florence Montgomery: roller-printed cotton from England, early nineteenth 
century. 

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson: side chair signed by Galle, French, late nineteenth 
century. 

Elizabeth Riley: an etching by John Taylor Arms, Church of Notre Dame, 
Villefranche; a lithograph by Clare Romano, Construction; a cardboard re- 
lief print by John Ross, Duomo II; a collography by John Ross, Slovene 
Farm; needlepoint designed by Jean Lurcat in 1928. 

Mrs. Kit Robins: a rare seventeenth-century tortoise-shell comb with case. 

Werner Schmidt: an etching by Carlfriedrich Claus; a poster by Claus, Exhi- 
bition at the Clara Mosch Calerie; 3 posters from three exhibitions at the 
Dresden Kupferstichkabinet. 

Mr. and Mrs. Janos Scholz: a marble and gilt bronze pedestal clock, figure 
signed by Carrier-Belleuse. 

Jean-Pierre Seguin: 2 early-nineteenth-century French playing cards. 

Mrs. Celia Siegel: an Art Deco lamp by Bouraine; an onyx clock by Preiss. 



FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Donors of Financial Support 

Mr. and Mrs. Willard G. Clark 
Mary Livingston Griggs and 

Mary Griggs Burke Foundation 
The Japan Foundation, Tokyo, Japan 



The Japan Foundation, New York 
Princeton Club of Washington 
Mr. Hobart Taylor 



Donors to the Freer Collection 

Mrs. Samuel D. Berger and Graenum 
and Emma Berger, in memory of 
Ambassador Samuel D. Berger 

Estate of Mrs. Margaret Garber Blue 

Mr. Myron S. Falk, Jr. 

Mr. J. D. Hatch, in memory 
of William R. B. Acker 

Mr. Province Henry 



Mr. Seiichi Honde 

Mrs. Eleanor F. Lenzner 

Mrs. Mildred F. Loew 

Mr. and Mrs. Max R. Oberdorfer 

The Honorable and Mrs. Hugh Scott 

Mr. John S. Thacher 

Mr. Tung Tso-pin 

Mr. C. C. Wang 



Donors to the Study Collection 

Academia Sinica 
Mrs. Myron B. Smith 



Mr. Zachary Taylor 
Mrs. S. L. Tesone 



Donors to the Library 

The Japan Foundation, Tokyo, Japan 
Mr. Murray Lebwohl 



Metropolitan Study Center for Asian 

Art 
Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 521 



HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 
Donors of Financial Support 

GENERAL CONTRIBUTORS 

Richard B. and Peter L. Bermont 
Edward R. Downe, Jr. 
Marvin Korengold 



Penn Lupovich, M.D. 
Tom & Barnt, Ltd. 
Washington Art League 



HIRSHHORN HOLIDAY ACTIVITY GRANT 

Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates 

MATCHING ACQUISITION FUND CONTRIBUTION 

Leigh Block 



Donors to the Collections 

Anonymous 

Dr. C. Andrew L. Bassett 

Mrs. Nathaly Baum 

Robert Alan Brown 

Mildred Constantine 

Seth and Gertrude Dennis 

Julio de Dilgo 

Joseph M. Erdelac 

Joseph H. Hirshhorn 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn 

Mrs. Catherine Hohenlohe Jacobus 

Mrs. Yashuo Kumijoshi 

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS 

Donors of Financial Support 
Peter C. Cornell Trust 



Carl Lobell 

James McGarrell 

Alice Neil 

Kenneth Noland 

S. Dillon Ripley 

Larry Rivers 

Michael Todd 

Mr. and Mrs. Alan L. Shulman 

Raphael and Rebecca Soyer 

James Younger 

Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Vanderwoude 

Dr. and Mrs. Hyman Weitzen 



National Academy of Sciences 



MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART 
Donors of Financial Support 

$10,000 AND ABOVE 

Atlantic Richfield Foundation 

$1,000 AND ABOVE 

Exxon Corporation 
Embassy of Kenya 
Phelps Stokes Fund 

$500 AND ABOVE 

Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company 
Hechinger Foundation 



$100 AND ABOVE 

Ace Editions 

Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Atkinson 

Dorothy Anderson 

Mr. David L. Anderson 

William Barrett 

Mrs. Helen M. Blackburn 



Standish Brooks 
Ben H. Brown 
Leon Brown 
Alfred E. Bryan 
John Buck 
T. Robert Burke 



522 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



J. L. and Alice Clark 

Flournay A. Coles 

Dr. and Mrs. Paul B. Comely 

Mary P. Daugherty 

Ann Ford Doyle 

Carolyn El-Amin 

Robert Elkin 

John L. Ellicott 

Gladys L. Fishel 

Harold C. Fleming 

Mrs. Nancy M. Folger 

Carl M. Freeman 

Kenneth A. Freeman 

Hinda K. Freye 

John A. Friede 

J. David Gaines 

Marvin Gerstin 

Vernon Gill 

James Gilliam 

Goldberg/Marchesano 

Elizabeth Guest 

Gordon Hanes 

Nancy Hanks 

Stephen and Judith Hanna 

Joseph H. Hirshhorn 

Edwin E. Hokin 

Sylvia C. Hurston 

International Minerals and Chemical 

Corp. 
M. S. and I. S. Isaacs, for Jean 

Herskovits 
A. W. Jessup 
Harold Johnson 
Nancy Keiser 

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Kinney 
Clinton E. Knox 

Donors to the Collection 

Joseph Agostinelli 

Anonymous 

Anonymous 

Armand Arman 

Judith W. Ashelman 

William Brill 

The Hon. and Mrs. W. Beverly 

Carter, Jr. 
Robert Culbertson 
Rick Davis 
Dr. Norbert Fleisig 
H. Alan and Melvin Frank 
Dr. Sylvia Frank 
Glenn and Alexandra Garrison 
Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Gross 
John A. Hofheins 
Bryce Holcombe 
J & R Investments 



Scott Lang 

The Links 

Harry H. Lunn 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Marcus 

Mrs. Robert B. Mayer 

George C. McGhee 

G. William Miller 

Dr. Ted Miller 

James B. Mitchell 

John U. Nef 

Robert Nooter 

C. Donald Parker 

Delilah Pierce 

Joseph Pierce 

Lee and Kathy Price 

Barbara Reich 

Robert Reich 

Fred M. Richman 

Hans A. Ries 

Morton L. Salan 

Thorndike Saville 

James H. Scheuer 

Gustava Schindler 

Robert Shackleton 

Anne Shultz 

Ruth J. Smith 

Lael and Ron Stegall 

John Thacher 

Julia M. Timberlake 

Pattie B. Tyson 

Preston Valien 

Robert Gill Walker 

Jack A. Wilson 

Jack and Angene Wilson 

Mildred R. Winer 



J. Wesley Johnson 

Harvey Golden 

Eliot and Rhoda Liffland 

Mr. and Mrs. Martin J. Livingston 

The Hon. and Mrs. Robinson 

Mcllvaine 
Robert and Nancy Nooter 
The Hon. Thomas P. O'Neill 
Alan M. Gilstein and William J. 

Piccerelli 
Thomas Quimby 
Warren Robbins 
Dr. Francis Scola 
The Hon. Anthony M. Solomon 
Mrs. E. W. Tompkins 
Mr. and Mrs. Burton Tremaine 
Benjamin Weiss 
Dr. Nicholas Zervas 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 523 



NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 



Donors of Financial Support 

Art Lovers League 

Belgian American Educational 

Foundation, Inc. 
Mary Z. Bryant 
Cafritz Foundation 
Evelyn Clar 
Rebecca R. Clar 
Paul M. Crerar 
Palul W. Doll 
Sue A. Draves 
Preston Green 
R. Philip Hanes, Jr. 
Mary E. Hauptmann 
I.B.M. Corporation 

Donors to the Collections 

Anonymous 

Anonymous 

Mrs. John A. Benton 

Dr. and Mrs. George P. Blundell 

Mrs. Fannie Brenner 

Mrs. Adelyn D. Breeskin 

Mrs. John Crosby Brown 

Dr. and Mrs. Jerome Canter 

Richard C. Childers and Nancye M. 

Childers 
Mrs. B. S. Cole 
Howard N. Cook 
Josephine and Salvatore Del Deo 
Joan and Miriam DeWitt 
Olin Dows 

Isabelle Collin Dufresne 
Robert S. Fastov 
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Fendrick 
Mrs. Mary Jane Fisher 
Mrs. Gertrude C. Frey 
Howard and Shirlee Friedenberg 
Galerie Triangle 
General Services Administration 

(transfer from) 
Mr. John R. Grabach 
Arthur and Anne Granick 
Preston Greene 
Dr. and Mrs. Carolyn Halpert 
Richard Hamwi 
National Museum of History and 

Technology (transfer from) 
Mr. John A. Hoffar 
H. Lawrence Holcomb 
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay 
Gordon Holler 
William Page Howell 
Billy Morrow Jackson 



Sheila Isham 

Mrs. Jacob Kainen 

Mrs. Margaret D. McKee 

National Capitol Glass 

Dr. Frederick Offenberger 

Philip J. Rowley 

Charles H. Sawyer 

Ross Scott 

Pamela B. Shafer 

Rosalind Sheldon 

Iola B. Springer 

United Technologies Corporation 

Mrs. Robert D. Van Roijen 

Harry W. Zichterman 



S. C. Johnson and Son, Inc. 

Jacob Kainen 

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen 

Mrs. Martha R. Kantor 

Edith B. Katz 

Louis and Annette Kaufman 

Mrs. Charlene Baumert Kell 

Peter Krasnow 

Michael Lantz 

Keith LaPointe 

Estate of Louis B. Letterine, Jr., 

through Mrs. Lynn Letterine 
Adele Lozowick 
Frank McClure (bequest of) 
Mrs. Hiram W. McKee 
Mrs. William M. Mann 
Felicia Myeer Marsh 
Keith Martin 
Mrs. Robert B. Mayer 
Vincent Melzac Collection 
Gregory Mescha 
Phillip Morris, Inc. 
Gloria and Leon Moskowitz 
National Portrait Gallery (transfer 

from) 
J. Michael Newell 
Clive M. Norman 
Cynthia A. Norman 
Mrs. Sherwood Norman 
Mrs. Lucy Ball Owsley 
Mrs. Marion E. Pelzer 
Peter Powers 
Henry Ward Ranger Fund 

(bequests through the National 

Academy of Design) 
Steven K. Roberts 
Mr. and Mrs. Hugo E. Robus, Jr. 



524 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Mr. and Mrs. Oscar Rosen 

Mrs. Betty Ross 

Mrs. Edgar L. Rossin 

Lucy Norman de Sanchez 

Maltby Sykes 

Mrs. Katherine Sergava Sznycer 

Alma Thomas (bequest of) 

Elliott Thompson 

Mr. and Mrs. Milton Turner 

Heinz Warneke 



Helen Joy Weinberg 
Keith A. Whitham 
Mr. Nelson C. White 
Adriana Williams 
The Woodward Foundation 
Mr. Mahonri Young 
Virginia Zabriskie 
The Zenith Corporation 
Harry W. Zichterman 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 



Donors of Financial Support 

Catherine Absalom 

Mr. Mark A. Adler 

AKA Fund, Inc. 

Amos Press, Inc. 

Anonymous 

Mrs. John W. Auchlincloss 

Donald B. Avey 

Virginia S. Ballard 

Mrs. Royal J. Bartrum 

The Bass Foundation 

Mr. and Mrs. William P. Bebbington 

Susann Beeson 

The Blythswood Charitable Trust 

Mrs. Helene D. Bodman 

Harold H. Bredell 

Mrs. Percy Brown 

Mrs. Weir M. Brown 

Carolina Virginia NCR Users Group 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Childs 

Mr. and Mrs. Timothy W. Childs 

Herbert M. Davidson, Jr. 

Judith G. Denningham 

Mary W. Devlin 

Mr. and Mrs. Leroy E. Doggett 

Mr. Leroy E. Doggett 

Mrs. Martha Laprelle Edens 

Herman D. Engelberg 

Louis Engelberg 

Ruth T. Entrekin 

Linda R. Fisk 

Miss Margaret E. Floyd 

Mrs. Harvey Gaylord 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Geier 

Lighting Business Group of General 

Electric 
Gloria Goertz 

Brandeis, Goldschmidt and Co., Inc. 
Great Eastern Numismatic 

Association 
Peggy McCoy Harper 
Jane S. Hart 



Mr. and Mrs. William E. Harvey 

Mr. and Mrs. G. H. Himelhoch 

Virginia R. Hoff 

Mrs. Jane A. Holben 

Mailande W. Holland 

Dr. Bruce Howe 

Mr. Bruce Howe 

Alice G. Hoyt 

International Harvester Company 

Jean 5. James 

Mr. Lee R. Jefferies 

The Johns Hopkins University Press 

Capt. E. E. Johnson 

Mr. Jess D. Keeler 

Mary L. Kerr 

Mr. and Mrs. Lee F. Kilbourn 

Ida B. King 

Genevive Koester 

Elizabeth and Naomi Kuziemski 

Mr. and Mrs. James F. Lawrence 

Miss Helen Levy 

Kathleen W. Malcolm 

Mr. John Russell Mason 

Mrs. Herbert C. Mayer 

Mr. and Mrs. Norman McCabe 

Foremost McKesson Foundation, Inc. 

Mrs. Louden Mellen 

Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer 

Foundation 
Mrs. William J. Modell 
Mrs. Stephen V. C. Morris 
Marion N. W. Morton 
NCR Corporation 
Gerson Nordlinger, Jr. 
Mrs. Donald Notman 
Joanne M. Oldenski 
Elma V. Parkinson 
The Pfaltzgraff Company 
Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence J. Radice 
Riverway Co. 
Anne W. Robbins 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 525 



Mr. Thomas M. Roberts 

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Rosenbaum 

Rev. Jeffrey F. Samaha 

Ben Shouse 

Mr. S. N. Shure 

Mrs. John Farr Simmons 

Dr. and Mrs. A. C. Smith, Jr. 

Mrs. Henry P. Smith 

Mr. W. N. Harrell Smith 

Mrs. Francis A. Smith 

Mrs. Janet Solinger 

Mr. Davidson Sommers 

Genevieve P. Sowa 

E. E. Stauber 

Mrs. Harry A. Sylvester 



Mrs. Sylvia Symington 
Time-Life Books, Inc. 
Pauline Bird Treman 
Mr. and Mrs. Bronson Tweedy 
Mr. and Mrs. C. Fred Tyner 
Washington, D.C., Chapter 

of the National Railway 

Historical Society 
Clarice Whitener 
Dr. and Mrs. Jack William 
The Womens Auxiliary of the 

International Chiropractors 

Association 
Miss Flora P. Wright 
Mary R. Zelenik 



Donors to the National Collections 

Margie Adam: tape by donor, "We Shall Go Forth," c. 1976 (1979.0728). 
Robert F. Adams, P.E. : concrete core sample from Bellefontaine, Ohio, con- 
crete street, 1892-93 (1979.0814). 
Adler Shoe Shops, Inc. (through M. A. Gruber) : man's shoes, 1979 (1979.0882). 
Kitty and Ted Ahlm: 6 phonograph records (1979.0433). 
Government of Aitutaki, Aitutaki Post Office, Postal Accounts: 4 used official 

stamps and 2 used postage stamps, all of Aitutaki (1979.0998). 
Alabama Peanut Producers Association (through James Earl Mobley) and the 

Georgia Peanut Commission (through George M. Welchel) : peanut sheller 

(1979.0279). 
Alonzo E. Alderman: Burton Clinical Camera and related accessories 

(1977.0206) . 
R. P. Alexander: 2 mail-carrying cases of Japan from the late Tokugawa Period 

and a cancellation device of the 1890s (1979.1009). 
Sheila Machlis Alexander: materials related to the civil rights activities of the 

Congress of Racial Equality, early 1960s (1979.0764); woman's necklace, 

1968-72 (1979.1246). 
Irving Amen: 78 woodcut prints, woodcut blocks, linoleum prints, linoleum 

blocks, and preliminary drawings made by the donor, illustrating "Gilga- 

mesh" (1979.0646). 
American College of Radiology (through Dr. Fredric D. Lake and Dr. Harold 

N. Schwinger) : collection of 257 artifacts related to medical radiology 

(1978.0435). 
American Electric Power Service Corporation (through W. S. White) : slide rule 

(1979.0831). 
American Society of Mechanical Engineers (through Rogers B. Finch) : F. and 

W. M. Faber Steam Engine, c. 1850 (1980.0277). 
Clifford N. Anderson: refraction telescope with equatorial mount and tripod 

(1979.1017). 
Anonymous: 2,736 lithographs and plates printed by Linton R. Kistler (1978. 

0650); cooking pan, patented by Hiram Hayden, 1851 (1980.0214); music or 

portfolio stand of ebonized wood and metal, Moosic, Pennsylvania, c. 1879 

(1980.0125); miniature cast-iron fence to surround base of Christmas tree, 

c. 1900 (1979.1255); cast-iron pot with lid, frying pan (1979.1254); brass 

kettle, Husse, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, post 1870 (1979.1094); iron pan 

with lid, T. Holcroft and Sons, Wolverhampton, 1868-83 (1979.0727). 
Daniel S., Grace D., and Susan B. Anthony, and Charlotte Anthony Sako: 

dropleaf table, revolving bookcase, and trunk (1980.0119). 



526 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Antique Wireless Association (through Bruce Kelley) : Navy-type spark gap 
transmitter (1979.0872). 

Patricia A. Antonisse: 2 Action Kits for ERAmerica's Mail Day, October 23, 
1978, promoting passage of the Equal Rights Amendment and an Action Kit 
instruction guide (1979.0741). 

Dr. Carlos E. Arabal: porcelain dish, Kuang Shii period (1979.1214). 

Audrey Z. Archer-Shee: Fillmore bible, envelope with Confederate Flag con- 
taining a letter, 2 letters, a certificate of membership in the Ladies Mount 
Vernon Association of the Union, handwritten pass, and a handwritten copy 
of the report of the Third Division, 1st Army Corps (1979.0908). 

Argonne National Laboratory (through Malcolm Derrick) : Omega bellows 
assembly from the Argonne 12' bubble chamber (1980.0155). 

University of Arkansas (through Professor Joel S. Freund) : memory drum 
(1979.0850). 

Mrs. Judith Arness: swift, used to hold silk or cotton warp (1979.0719). 

Whitney Ashbridge: canvas bedstead bottom (1979.0827). 

Mrs. T. W. Atkins: pitcher, "Apostles," stoneware with pewter lid (1979.1148). 

Attica Historical Society (through Marian Stevens) : white cotton banner with 
a rooster painted on it, made in 1894 to honor President Cleveland 
(1979.0176). 

Mrs. Jean M. Aylor and Mrs. Olga M. Zauner: woman's hat, 1925-29 
(1979.0510). 

Peter Baghdasarian: Griswold barbed wire (1979.0604). 

Bil Baird: puppet, "Slugger Ryan" at his piano (1980.0315). 

Caroline L. and Louis A. Baisden: spatula c. 1920 (1979.1139). 

Thomas M. Baker: shoemaker's foot measure (1979.0663). 

Baltimore & Ohio Railroad: Letter to the President of the B & O Railroad, 
dated December 1829; invitation to the opening ceremonies of the bridge 
over the Missouri River, dated May 1871; invitation to the opening cere- 
monies of the Kansas and Missouri Bridge, dated April 1872; and an invita- 
tion to the opening ceremonies of the Illinois and St. Louis Bridge, dated 
June 1874 (1979.0912). 

Baltimore Type & Composition Corp. (through Herbert F. Czarnowsky, Jr.): 
typefounding tools, type, and specimen books (1977.1082). 

Sir Roger Bannister: track jersey used by the donor at the 1954 British Empire 
Games (1979.0614). 

Merle Banta, Fred Carr, and Stephen Hinchliffe: "Ruby Slippers" worn by 
Judy Garland in The Wizard of Oz (1979.1230). 

Mary G. Baratta, in honor of Elizabeth Pierce Parkhurst: nurse's winter cape 
worn by Elizabeth Pierce Parkhurst, R.N. (1979.1005). 

Government of Barbuda, Philatelic Bureau, Barbuda Post Office: 16 mint 
postage stamps of Barbuda, 2 First Day covers of 1978 with flora and fauna 
issues, and 1 First Day cover of 1977 with the Barbuda Christmas issue 
(1979.0135); 46 mint postage stamps and 12 First Day covers, all of Barbuda 
(1979.0969). 

Curtis H. Barker: Kelsey press and accessories (1980.0023). 

Hobert L. Barlow: pin from the International Union of Operating Engineers for 
30 years of service (1980.0400). 

Frederick W. Bartlett: 6 offset prints depicting railroad scenes (1979.0893). 

Donald P. Basham: items from the Knights of Khorassan and Knights of 
Pythias, including 15 receipts, an application form, a card case, a pocket 
calendar, and a certificate (1979.0434); 2 Missouri chauffeur's license badges 
and a magneto key chain fob (1979.0686). 

Preston R. Bassett: 2 collapsible paper lanterns (1979.0756); half-minute glass 
and a navigational reel (1980.0229). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 527 



Bastain Brothers Company: 9 political buttons from 1952-60 (1980.0145). 
Mr. and Mrs. James Lee Batson: American Agricultural Movement items, in- 
cluding a strike flag, flag poem, sticker, and a copy of American Agriculture 

News (1979.0890). 
Mrs. Mary G. Bauer: 4 bone or ivory and wood spools of thread (1979.0718). 
Bruce Bazelon: US Navy scrap books, c. WW I-WW II and US Navy officer's 

uniform insignia, period of the Civil War (1979.1160). 
Georgia Vail Becker and Virginia Moore Vail: 34-star US flag, official date, 

July 4, 1861, to July 3, 1863 (1979.1141). 
Robert Todd Lincoln Beckwith: 2 teacups with saucers, a footed serving bowl, 

and an oval tureen with cover from two different services owned by Mrs. 

Abraham Lincoln (1979.0738). 
C. Edward Behre: Quaker Peace Witness materials including newsletters, 

broadsides, leaflets, magazines, and photographs (1979.0774). 
Mrs. Peter Belin: 1 pair of doll stockings (1979.0676). 
The Bergen Foundation (through Frances Bergen) : Ventriloquist figure, 

"Charlie McCarthy" (1980.0273). 
Don H. Berkebile: dolly jack, automobile cot, starting-crank holder, and a 

theft-warning auto lock (1979.0687); Troy trailer, c. 1915 (1979.0704); Grey 

cushion rubber tire (1980.0362). 
Berkey Photo Inc., Konica Camera Company (through Peter M. Ildau) : Konica 

C35 AF, autofocus, 35mm camera (1978.1035). 
Thomas E. Berry: a collection of 561 mint and used postage stamps of Russia 

(1979.0125). 
Dr. Julian H. Bigelow: Voltmeter, wattmeter, and ammeter (1980.0111). 
Dr. Philip W. Bishop: Republican ticket portion of a ballot from Charleston, 

Rhode Island, dated June 2, 1891 (1980.0144). 
Jane H. and Robert E. Blackwell: tool chest and collection of 141 woodworking 

tools (1979.1266). 
Mrs. William McC. Blair, Jr.: woman's raincoat, 1973 (1979.0884). 
George and Sarah Blow: Protestant religious chart (1979.0331). 
Mrs. Theodore Bossart: needle-threading machine and 19 embroidery examples 

(1979.0491). 
Estate of Knowlton K. Boyce (through Ransom K. Boyce) : metal kerosene 

stove, c. 1899 (1979.0677). 
Eleanor L. Boyne: cartoon from "Judge," 1888 (1980.0205). 
James F. Bradford, Jr.: framed fragment of the Fort McHenry flag at the time 

of attack in 1<514 (1979.1058). 
Miriam C. Bradley: poster used in the July 1978 ERA march in Washington, 

D.C. (1979.1112). 
Michael Brancato, in memory of Anne Brancato Wood: collection of political 

materials concerning the career of Anne Brancato Wood (1979.1043). 
Mrs. Helene Bress: 2 coverlet fragments (1979.1217). 
Mrs. Clifton Bright: a sign, magazine, and newspaper used in the United Mine 

Workers Association strike in 1978 (1980.0117). 
Patricia Tofflemire Brink: T-shirt, "Convention Aide" used during the IWY 

Houston Women's Conference, November 1977 (1979.0743). 
Bruce M. and Diana B. Browneli: a collection of textile implements (1979.0208). 
Lloyd A. Buchalter: thermostatic heat control (1979.0891). 
William N. Buckner: marionette used in amateur production of "Snow White 

and the Dwarfs" and the script for "Snow White and the Dwarfs" (1980. 

0197). 
George G. Bull: 3 US covers cancelled during the Eighteenth Annual Postmark 

Collectors convention, 1979 (1979.1010); 22 mint postage stamps of the 

Peoples Republic of China issued in 1978 and 1979 (1979.1047). 
Martin Burke: 6 real-estate signs (1979.0975). 



528 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Jean R. Burris: 31 phonograph records, 78 rpm (1980.0132). 

Sarah S. Burts: silver pitcher marked by E. J. Johnston (1979.1161). 

Butler University (through Dr. H. Marshall Dixon III) : direct vision spectro- 
scope (1980.0053). 

Robert Butman, in memory of William H. Finkel, Jr., and William H. Finkel, 
Sr.: 4 patent applications (1979.1114). 

The Leonard Harvey Calaway Family (through E. D. Calaway) : 14 tools hand- 
forged by Leonard Harvey Calaway (1979.1040). 

Verne B. Calvert: woman's clothing items including a 2-piece dress, petticoat, 
dress, and a coat (1979.0087). 

Charles T. Campbell: picture of Grandmother Campbell and her son Shontz, 
c. 1879 (1979.0820). 

Carey Company: 8 political pennants and 2 advertising posters from 1960 
(1979.1166). 

Lettie Gay Carson: Seth Thomas shelf clock (1980.0426). 

Mrs. Richard L. Carter: woman's Adrian coat, 1940-49 (1979.0389). 

Steve Cauthen: jacket (racing silks) used by the donor (1979.0615). 

Frank G. and Rose Cejka, James M. Hammond, Mitchel Frank Hammond, 
and Adrienne Marie Hammond: man's horsehide coat, c. 1900 (1979.0083). 

University of Chicago, Ryerson Physical Laboratory: chronoscope, optical 
bench, heliostat, spectroscope, engineer's tape and reel, and a spectrometer 
(1978.0798). 

Children's Television Workshop (through Robert A. Hatch) : Sesame Street 
material including a street sign, trash can, "Rubber Duckie," and the cos- 
tumes worn by the characters "Mr. Hooper," "Bob," and "Susan" (1979. 
0952). 

Republic of China, Directorate General of Posts (through Y. C. Shih) : 101 mint 
postage stamps, 47 used postage stamps, 23 mint specimen stamps, 13 First 
Day covers, and 1 mint souvenir sheet, all of the Republic of China (1979. 
1002). 

Elvira Clain-Stefanelli: John F. Kennedy Center Inauguration program (1980. 
0218). 

The Cleveland Medical Library Association, Howard Dittrick Museum of His- 
torical Medicine (through Patsy A. Gerstner) : 3 Mulford aseptic shields 
(1980.0337). 

The Heirs of Jessie B. and Richard F. Cleveland: Jessie B. Cleveland clothing 
items including 2 parasols, 2 hats, 2 two-piece dresses, 2 morning dresses, 
wedding dress, pair of shoes, handkerchief, dress bodice, guimpe, vest with 
matching collar, skirt, evening jacket, photograph album of the Cleveland 
family, and a fishing rod and case which belonged to Grover Cleveland 
(1979.0901). 

Josephine Cobb: campaign paraphernalia consisting of ribbons, campaign but- 
tons, lapel pins, and inaugural souvenirs (1979.1208). 

Charles H. Cockrell: box with pin-cushion top (1979.1165). 

Barbara J. Coffee: 2 jacquard coverlet fragments (1979.0897); 6 brass teaspoons 
(1979.1106). 

Rosalee S. Cohn: Sevres sugar bowl with lid and Vincennes cup (1979.1146). 

Herbert R. Collins: 12 Christmas-tree balls in cardboard box (1980.0106); arm 
band with portrait of Al Smith, 1928 (1980.0206). 

Republic of Colombia (through Campo Anibal Toledo) : 14 First Day covers of 
Colombia, 1979 issue (1979.1001). 

Alan J. Compton: sketch of the set for the NMHT exhibit "Ten Years of 
Sesame Street," by the donor (1979.0616). 

Computer Sciences Corporation (through T. L. Gunther) : Theodolite with 
battery pack and battery case (1979.0809). 

Lynne Conlee: woman's shorts, woman's scarf, and a hair brush (1979.0480). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 529 



Government of Cook Islands, Ministry of Posts, Philatelic Bureau (through 
Officer in Charge) : 19 mint postage stamps, 6 mint souvenir sheets, 5 First 
Day covers, 2 used stamps, and 2 used official stamps, all of Cook Islands 
(1979.0970). 

Bernadine R. Cooley: X-ray head clamp (1980.0129). 

Mrs. Grace R. Cooper: wood printing block (1979.1097). 

Dr. Ivor Cornman: curd cutter, wooden brace, and a hoe (239502). 

Robert J. Cousy: Celtics basketball uniform and shoes worn by the donor 
(1979.1072). 

Liza Cowan: women's history objects, including flyers, buttons, a journal, and 
stationery (1979.0765). 

Cranford Historical Society, Inc. (through Lawrence P. Fuhro) : Henry Clay 
campaign flag, 1844 (1980.0146). 

Ruth C. Crocker: woman's dress designed by Robert Piguet (1979.0511). 

Mrs. Ruth E. Crownfield in the name of Albert C. Crownfield, Jr. : set of draft- 
ing instruments and calculus book (1979.0868). 

Joseph Cummins: 2 Alfred E. Smith bar pins from the 1928 Democratic cam- 
paign (1980.0396). 

Turkish Federated State of Cyprus (through Director of the Department of 
Posts) : 13 mint postage stamps, 5 First Day covers, and 1 mint souvenir 
sheet, all of Turkish Cyprus (1979.1000). 

Virginia Daiker: 2 tar buckets (1980.0162). 

Mrs. Sophie R. Dales: porcelain figure group of the Nativity (1979.1149). 

Jerry Dallman: Victor Records phonograph records order bank, August 1915 
(1979.0193). 

Dannon Milk Products (through Juan E. Metzger) : 1-pint Dannon yogurt bottle 
and a Vz-pint Dannon yogurt bottle, c. 1942 (1980.0029). 

Marshall Daugherty: 2 bronze medals entitled "Apollonian-Dionysian" and 
"Winterset" designed by the donor (1979.0113). 

Dr. Donald H. Davenport: 12 photographic prints by Professor C. H. Roblot 
(1977.1036). 

Ruth H. Davis: a one-keyed flute by Firth Hall & Pond (1979.0849). 

Gregory K. Day: "Tabby" brick, c. 1740, from Oakland Plantation in Charles- 
ton County, South Carolina (1979.0590). 

Harry L. De Alfi in memory of Joseph De Alfi: pocket watch (1980.0445). 

Dona Zeitz Dellair and Tommy Wonder 123: Puppet "Suzanne" and her 
traveling trunk, cane, 2 dresses, and 2 jackets (1980.0157). 

Anne M. Dean: Sewing Primer, 1886 (1979.0712). 

Mills Dean III: TMB Type LA Strain Indicator, c. 1945 (1980.0046). 

Delta Drilling Company (through Keating V. Zeppa) : black and white, 16mm 
film depicting oil-field scenes from the early 1930s in east Texas and north- 
ern Louisiana (1980.0084). 

Dorothy M. Demotte: patent document for phonogram reproducing apparatus 
(1980.0424). 

Deanna and Jack Dempsey: photographic portrait of Jack Dempsey, c. 1923 
(1979.1022). 

Kingdom of Denmark, Ministry of Public Works, General Directorate of Posts 
and Telegraphs: 75 mint postage stamps of Denmark and 25 mint postage 
stamps of Greenland (1979.0967). 

Cleveland H. Dent: campaign and inaugural items for Marion Barry, Mayor of 
the District of Columbia, 1978-79 (1979.0772). 

Dentsply International (through Norman D. Spaulding) : set of "black teeth 

dentures" (1979.0918). 
Herbert DeRyder: 3 electron tubes, Edison effect, Welch, and Triode (1979. 

0873). 
Des Moines Register and Tribune (through Michael Gartner and Maxine 



530 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Perry) : excerpts and highlights of the Republican candidates' forum printed 
in the Des Moines Sunday Register (1980.0208). 

Robert G. Desme: 3 Bromoil transfer photographic prints (1979.0993). 

Robert E. Dibble: ticket to the 1932 Olympic Games in Los Angeles, Cali- 
fornia (1979.1024). 

Walt Disney Productions (through Wayne Morris) : three-part animation eel 
used in the Walt Disney Production film Rescuers (1979.0978). 

Mr. and Mrs. Larry Doby: Cleveland Indians baseball shirt and hat worn by 
donor (1979.1034). 

Donald D. Donohue: mariner's compass in wooden box (1980.0179). 

Hugh D. Dorsey: collection of 26 pieces of concrete reinforcing-bar samples 
(1979.1007). 

Gladys C. Dougherty: needle case and pincushion (1979.0495); silk fabric 
(1979.0722); silver metal sewing kit marked "everybody's friend / the 
farmers / national bank sauna, Kansas" (1980.0330); Red Cross materials 
including 2 volunteer pins, a volunteer cap and a blood donor pin, all c. 
WW II (1980.0346); booklet, "Lead Kindly Light," by J. H. Newman (1980. 
0188); 2 miniature souvenir baseball bats from 1939 (1980.0272); Vietnam 
poster, "Bring All The Troops Home Now," a broadside, "The American's 
Creed," and ration materials (1980.0269). 

Government of Dubai, General Post Office, Philatelic Section: 2 mint postage 
stamps from the United Arab Emirates (1979.0999). 

Ruth E. Duncan: puppet, "Solwig's father" from the Peer Gynt marionette 
production (1980.0300). 

Alfreda M. Barnett Duster: book, Crusade for Justice: The Autobiography of 
Ida B. Wells (1979.0740). 

Mrs. Llewellyn N. Edwards: engraving, The Iron Bridge at Colebrook Dale, 
printed April 1, 1806 (1979.0911). 

Central Bank of Egypt (through Manager, Note Issue Department) : 3 new 
specimen banknotes of Egypt (1979.0638). 

Asbeth Lee and Jack M. Eichner: 197 phonograph records (1979.1023). 

C. P. Eldridge, in the name of the grandchildren of Maria Louise Eldridge: 
embroidered handkerchief, 2 embroidered borders, embroidered motif, and 
collar (1979.0499). 

Mrs. Dorothy M. Ellis: copy of "The New Phonogram," 1905, and a broadside, 
"Wanted! 250 Million Pounds Kitchen Fats for War Use" (1980.0037). 

Harold W. Ellis: US Coast Guard enlisted man's blue utility jacket worn by the 
donor in the late 1950s (1979.1123). 

Sheldon W. Engle: handkerchief made by Mrs. Edwin M. Stanton, wife of the 
Secretary of War, in 1865 (1980.0209). 

Donald S. Evans: 1 shirt, "British Leyland / Quaker State" (1980.0303). 

Chris Evert: tennis racket used by the donor (1979.0617). 

John C. and Margaret E. Ewers: 39 phonograph records, "Hit of the Week" 
(1980.0185). 

Stephen M. Falatko: 500 baseball and football cards (1980.0201). 

Federal Election Commission: 1 summary sheet, information packet, and book- 
let, plus pamphlets and handouts (1980.0393). 

John H. Fell: 2 photographs of Rosalyn Carter wearing her inaugural gown 
on January 1, 1977 (1979.0665). 

Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory (through Philip V. Livdahl) : braid of 
superconducting wire, superconducting cable section, main-ring dipole mag- 
net, main-ring quadropole magnet, and superconducting dipole (1980.0126). 

David W. Field, Jr.: pamphlet on D. W. Field "Straight Line Water Filtration 
System," 1907, and a salesman's model of Spencer Damper Regulator 
(1979.1049). 

Marabeth S. Finn: desk lamp, c. 1910, and an electric breakfast set (1979.1044). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 531 



Irene and Walt Fischer: 1 running iron and case plus a stool and ashtray 
holder (1980.0311). 

Dr. Robert E. Fischer: set of 2 contact lens cases, 1 contact lens case, slide rule, 
and a scleral shell press (1979.0700). 

Florida Institute of Technology (through Donald V. Stophlet) : polarizing ap- 
paratus (1979.0840). 

Folk Art Fund: painting, Taking the Cotton to the Gin (1979.0710). 

Mrs. Donald W. Foote: woman's necklace and 2 compacts from the 1950s 
(1980.0158). 

Georgia E. Foster and Margaret Foster Remmele: 38-star US flag, official date 
1877-1890 (1979.0865). 

David Fox: spark coil transmitter, c. 1905 (1979.0644). 

Dr. Grace Fox: pieced work and applique quilt, lady's shawl, and a single- 
weave jacquard coverlet (1980.0253). 

Franklin College (through Raymond Cowan) : earth inductor marked "jas. 

W. QUEEN & CO. MAKERS PHILA." (1979.1018). 

Franklin Machine Company: letterpress copy of a note and a letter by George 

Corliss (1979.0910). 
Franklin Mint (through Martin F. Walsh): 2 new specimen banknotes from 

Tanzania (1979.0443); 4 specimen banknotes from Sierra Leone (1979.0606); 

5 specimen banknotes from Paraguay (1979.0688); 6 specimen banknotes 

from the Philippines (1979.0706); 3 new specimen banknotes from Malta 

(1979.0837). 
B. L. and Louise S. Freeman: playbill from the Park Theatre in New York City, 

August 1847 (1980.0087). 
Roland L. Freeman: barrel basket (1979.0851). 
Dr. Milton J. Freiwald: replica of a machine-gun spring and rod the donor 

removed from a patient's eye (1979.1031). 
Melinda Y. Frye: booklet, "Greeters' Guide to Washington," 1930 (1979.0666). 
Gardner Communications, Inc. (through R. Gardner) : sheet music, "I'm Feeling 

Good About America;" reel of President Ford's campaign song, "I'm Feeling 

Good About America" in seven versions, music and lyrics by Robert K. 

Gardner (1980.0395). 
Gardner-Miller Fund: mid-eighteenth century Italian porcelain plate (1979. 

1223). 
Dr. Douglas M. Gay: 34-star US flag, official date July 4, 1861-July 3, 1863 

(1979.1121). 
Charles Gellert and Claudia A. Lipschultz: 2 women's movement banners 

(1979.0733). 
Irving Gershkoff: pastry board with carving of General Zachary Taylor 

(1980.0067). 
Thomas Gibbons: set ok drain-cleaning tools, consisting of 3 forged iron 

heads and 20 hardwood canes (1979.1041). 
Edgar S. Giles: woman's opera glasses, 1875-1925, and brooch, 1885-1898 

(261981); wooden level and a honing stone (1978.2145). 
William A. Gillen: 36 labor-union convention badges (1980.0316). 
John Girard and Mrs. Sophie G. Mouton: 7 agricultural implements (1980. 

0422). 
Mrs. Anna S. Gladding: scrapbook with envelope corners of Civil War 

Patriotic covers (1979.0636). 
Mrs. Hymie Goldberg and Jose C. Santanna: Perkins union-dues book (1979. 

0777). 
James M. Goode: G.E. refrigerator, 1929 (1979.1015); Boy Scouts of America 

items, including a compass, map, Eagle Scout Award certificate, merit badge 

sash, Eagle award in box, neckerchief with 3 clasps, Piedmont Boy Scout 

Camp emblem, Explorer cap, and a white cloth belt (1979.1231). 



532 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Mrs. Jennie Lee Gorton: painting, Shot Gun House (1979.0709). 

Frank M. Graves: Kalkometer adder, Pickett & Fockel slide rule, instruction 

booklet for Picket deci.log log slide rule, and instruction booklet for Picket 

300 log log trig pocket slide rule (1979.0601). 
Dr. Albert G. Greene, Jr.: Welte "Philharmonic Organ" (1980.0213). 
Mrs. Virginia Wayekoff Gregg: diploma awarded by the American Institute to 

Benjamin Pike, Jr. (1980.0013). 
Nicholas Grossman: Persian 5V2-inch Pseudo-Astrolabe (1979.0852). 
Government of the Republic of Guinea (through Agence Philatelique de la 

Republique de Guinee) : 8 mint postage stamps and 2 used postage stamps, 

all of the Republic of Guinea (1979.0995). 
Edith M. Gullett (through Martin J. Murtagh) : gold thimble (296665). 
Janet Guthrie: auto-racing suit and crash helmet worn by donor in the 1978 

Indianapolis 500 (1979.0791). 
Alfredo and Raquel Halegua: Violin by Antonio Mariani, c. 1650 (1978.2531). 
Reverend Joseph A. Haller, S.J.: wirt dim-a-lite (1979.0874). 
John Handley High School (through George Craig and Dorothy M. Overcash) : 

early electrical equipment, from backstage of the Handley High School audi- 
torium (1979.0875). 
Mary Sue W. Hannan: bandanna depicting L'Enf ant's map of the District of 

Columbia and a scarf showing buildings of the Washington, D.C., area 

(1980.0069). 
James A. Hanson: Russian percussion converted musket (1979.0902). 
Hardesty & Hanover Consulting Engineers (through Henry W. Fischer) : reflect- 
ing hand level (1979.0839). 
Edward W. Harkins, Sr.: 7 nails (1979.0845). 
Michael R. Harris : 8 Pimlico Race Track betting slips, 7 marked "exacta" and 

1 marked "No. 5, Eighth Race" (1979.0618) ; special parking permit from the 

1979 World Series in Baltimore (1980.0079). 
Mrs. A. L. Harrison and Lewis Harrison: toy bear, 1928 (1979.0938). 
Marcia T. Harrison: 2 metal boxes of waxed matches from the Robert Scott 

expedition to Antarctica, 1902 (1979.0448). 
Karen A. Hay and Mrs. Evora Giddens McAdams, in memory of Sank and 

Delia Giddens: child's shoes, c. 1910, and a button hook, 1917 (1979.0061). 
Elizabeth Haynes: Richard Nixon 1968 campaign button (308933). 
Margaret S. Headley: 8 items relating to Albert J. Headley's tour of duty with 

the Washington police (1979.0360). 
Helaine Victoria Press (through Jocelyn H. Cohen and Nancy Poore) : col- 
lection of 34 postcards, postcard album, and business cards (1979.0785). 
William H. Helfand: 17 patent medicines and vitamin samples (1979.0936); 

collection of 14 patent medicines (1980.0317); collection of 18 pharma- 
ceutical items (1980.0428). 
Dorothy M. Hennessy, Rosabell Leistra, and Jeannette L. Marsall: field glasses 

loaned to the Department of the Navy in response to their appeal for "Eyes 

for the Navy" during WW I (1980.0130). 
Lloyd E. Herman: silversmithing hammer (1980.0353). 
Hershey Food Corporation, Hershey Chocolate Company (through Earl J. 

Spangler and James A. Edris) : triple chocolate liquor mill, four pot conche, 

and a depositor (1980.0021). 
John S. and Nancy S. Higgins: 4 items of marked American cut glass 

(1979.1138). 
Margaret Hildt: papers relating to President and Mrs. Wilson (1979.0905). 
James J. Hill: Labor union materials including 14 buttons, 5 badges, 2 ribbons, 

and 1 invitation (1980.0128). 
Jessie L. Hill: 2 driving aprons, c. 1900 (1979.0680). 
Elyssa and Michael Hillman: set of drafting instruments (1979.0420). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 533 



Kemp B. Hobbs, Jr.: program to "The Student Prince" 1932, courtesy pass 

issued to The Honorable Clinton A. Fowler in 1932, and an itemized bill 

from "Murphy's Hotel" (1980.0082). 
Captain Alan 5. Hodges: 2 pairs of US Navy enlisted man's dungarees, WW 

II, and 2 US Navy enlisted man's white hats, WW II (1980.0074). 
Seymour R. Hollander: 1 set of 4 glass X-ray plates-G.I. series, and 6 glass 

X-ray plates, including 2 chest, 1 right shoulder, 1 large intestine, 1 stereo 

chest, and 1 ring finger (1980.0010). 
Donna M. Horie: girl's dress, 1930 (1979.0278). 
Kenneth L. Hosner: 1980 Carter campaign buttons (1980.0391). 
Hotel and Restaurant Employees and Bartenders International Union Local 

#14 (through Malcolm C. Simmons and Louise Metzger) : silver loving cup 

inscribed "Won by Waiters Union No. 14 For Best Float" (1980.0101). 
Howard W. Hruschka: Hohner accordian and carrying case (1980.0333). 
Chris Hughes: 349 baseball cards and 3 King Kong cinema cards (1979.0456); 

Walt Whitman High School graduation cap and gown worn by the donor, 

June 1979 (1979.0792). 
Cornell C. Hunter: plan and particulars for making Bank of England note 

molds, 2 paper molds and 1 deckle, mold with deckle, mold without deckle, 

rubbing from a 10-part paper mold (1979.0925). 
Cornell C. and Irene R. Hunter: paper mold for banknote paper (1980.0056). 
William Elderkin Huntington: silver sugar bowl and cream pitcher made by 

silversmith William Thomson, 1809-35 (1979.0955). 
Mrs. Martha F. Hupper: red and white cotton damask tablecloth (1979.0717). 
Dr. Lewis M. Hurxthal: film, "The Mechanism of the Heart Beat and Electro- 
cardiograph," with a manuscript describing it, and the film, "Endocrinology 

— Including the Physiology of Menstruation and Pregnancy" (1979.1012). 
Emil A. Husayko: 37-star US national flag, official dates July 4, 1867-July 3, 

1877 (1980.0412). 
James S. Hutchins: Ambrotype of Benjamin Vorhees (1980.0051). 
Dorothy D. Hutchinson: carved ivory pen top and Iowa Republican League 

ribbon (1979.0946). 
Ici Americas, Inc. (through Andrea L. Lose) : Archimedes calculator (1979. 

0419). 
Ideal Toy Corporation (through Stewart C. Sims) : 1 "Smokey the Bear" 

stuffed toy (1980.0207). 
Clare Cardozo Imburg: silver glove-darner and bodkin case containing 3 

bodkins and a stay (1979.0500). 
Frank Incantalupo, in memory of Thomas Incantalupo: 2 offset-lithography 

proof books for cigar-box covers (1980.0072). 
State of Israel, Ministry of Posts (through Director General) : 10 First Day 

covers of Israel, 1979 issue (1979.0997). 
E. Bee Jackson: 11 medals from The Woman's Relief Corps, the Woodmen of 

the World, and The Shriners (1979.0745). 
Estate of Kenneth D. Jacobs (through Thomas F. Jacobs) : 4,408 philatelic ob- 
jects (1979.0332). 
Carl Jaeschke: Prohibition ribbon (1979.0736). 
John Spaulding John and Patricia John Keightley: portrait of Oveta Culp 

Hobby by Grace Spauling John (1980.0387). 
Charles E. Johnson: framed memorial of James Abram Garfield (1979.1104); 3 

handkerchiefs, "Souvenir De France," 1918-1919, and a chamberstick holder 

(1980.0290). 
Martin Jolles: drawer bottom with Robert Ligget label (311524). 
Mary Rose Jones: cup and saucer of same design as the Wilson White House 

China, marked "White House 1918" (1980.0266). 
William T. Jones (through Ronald A. Foster) : rural mail box (1980.0359). 



534 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Jane S. Jordan: 3 cartons of cigarettes (1980.0060). 

Cassandra Hutchings Kabler, Margaret Swartout, and Sigrid Trumpy: banner 

from the anti-nuclear rally in Washington, D. C, on May 6, 1979 (1979. 

1134). 
Charles H. Kaman: Adamas guitar and Ovation guitar (1979.0818). 
John S. Kebabian: Staff and General Officer's sword, scabbard, and cover 

(1979.1201). 
Mrs. Edith C. Keenan: 153 pennants and 49 labels (1979.1162). 
Ruth Loujean Kelly and J. Wallace Kelly: 3 film halters, box of panchromatic 

glass plates, box of orthochromatic glass plates (1979.0903). 
Alan Kemper: Zitter (1980.0332). 
Anne L. Kendig: WW I US Naval Reserve Yeoman "¥" white uniform coat 

and skirt, blue uniform cape, photographs of donor wearing uniform, US 

Naval Reserve Force Discharge issued to the donor, and The American 

Legion Magazine, November 1977 (1979.0898). 
Mrs. Lowell D. Kennedy: ingrain carpeting fragment (1979.0855). 
Stetson Kennedy: Poster, "National Union Label Week, May 10-16, 1948" 

(1979.0726). 
Mrs. H. Nelson Keyser: 3 pewter thimbles (1979.1079). 
Gretchen King: typewriter, c. 1904 (1980.0447). 
Pee Wee King: Commemorative plaque for the "Tennessee Waltz" and an 

autographed record jacket (1980.0270). 
Richard T. Kisualas: 2 J. B. Colt carbide feed gas generating tanks and 1 gas 

bell chamber (1979.1268). 
Florence L. Kite (through Steven Miller) : 4 original political cartoon drawings 

by C. R. Macauley (1980.0211). 
Margaret B. Klapthor: Rules of Practice, Supreme Court D.C., 1815 (1980.0153). 
Mrs. Catherine Koehler (through Pacific Telephone) : 4 glass insulators (1979. 

0894). 
Chris Kositzky: Charlie McCarthy Radio Game (1980.0100). 
Kenneth L. Kramer: Union material, including 47 buttons, 20 badges, 2 hats, 

and a keychain (1979.0976). 
Carol L. Kreglon: 1 pair of woman's earrings (1979.0871); woman's brooch and 

earrings, 1950-1959, and an advertising poster from Peterson's Magazine 

(1979.1227). 
Charles M. Kreszock: 4x5 folding plate camera, wooden tripod, focusing 

cloth, 3 lenses, 2 printing-out paper packages, postal card masks, print 

trimmer (1980.0141). 
Michael R. Krivit: Newspaper Harper's Weekly, and book Visions of Columbus 

(1980.0328). 
Edward C. and Kathryn B. Krupp. a banner, flag, tintype, phamphlet, news- 
paper, and photographs (1980.0327). 
Sarah Sappington Kuhn: 16mm print of film titled, Rap (1979.0739). 
Robert Kwalwasser: sign, "murtaugh" from the Pittsburgh Pirates baseball 

team manager's office door (1979.1256). 
Simon Lake III and Thomas A. E. Lake (through Benjamin A. G. Fuller) : 13 

original half and full models of submarines designed and built by Simon 

Lake of Bridgeport, Connecticut, c. 1902-20 (1979.0864). 
Charles C. L'Allemand: shipping tubes and parts (1979.0716). 
Steve Landesberg and Jean Soo: nypd badge, ceramic coffee mug and desk 

nameplate used by Jack Soo on The Barney Miller Show, and 2 movie 

posters from Flower Drum Song (1979.1008). 
Ruth Larson and Harry K. Short: 2 textbooks — A Complete Arithmetic, Unit- 
ing Mental and Written Exercises and The Eclectic History of the United 

States (1979.0457). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 535 



Edmond J. LeBreton: buttons, badges and press credentials used during the 
Republican and Democratic campaigns of 1964-76 (1980.0392). 

James R. Lee: phonograph record by the Beatles, c. 1965 (1979.0989). 

John P. Lefner: fanning mill (1980.0421). 

Irene S. Leung: 5 buttons supporting the normalization of relations between 
the US and the People's Republic of China (1979.1003). 

King S. Levin: Handwritten autographed manuscript of sheet music, letter of 
documentation dated October 27, 1886, and a printed copy of sheet music 
(1980.0066). 

Henry C. Lickel: set design for Those Were the Days, in 3 sheets (1979.0458); 
set design for the TV pilot show Justice for All, 1968, designed by the 
donor (1979.0985). 

Jonathan Liebenau: 6 pharmaceutical objects (1980.0182). 

James B. Lile: 1 handmade lock, folding knife (1980.0386). 

H. L. Lindquist Publications, Inc.: 1,400 miscellaneous covers, First Day covers, 
Postal stationery, souvenir sheets, and post cards of the US and foreign 
countries (1980.0062). 

Elizabeth R. Lindsay: Centennial Exposition and Washington, D. C, memo- 
rabilia (1979.0459). 

Leopold U. Linton: Book, Parliamentary Procedures by Lillian Cole Bethel, 
dated 1894 (1980.0268). 

Dr. Robert J. Locurto: collection of 16 contraceptive and pharmaceutical 
objects (1980.0160). 

George E. Logue: Caterpillar ten tractor and sickle bar mower (1979.1060). 

Ramona Long: 2 official posters from the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs 
and Freedom (1979.1207). 

Mrs. Walter Louchheim: 55 pieces of women's, men's, and girl's clothing ac- 
cessories (320014). 

John L. and Nancy Maytag Love: model Maytag hay baler (1979.0603). 

Geneva Kay Loveland: print of the film Farenthold: A Texas Chronicle (1979. 
1206). 

Jerry R. Lucas: New York Knicks basketball uniform worn by the donor 
(1979.0534). 

D. E. Lukins: amateur baseball glove, pancake style, c. 1895 (1980.0271). 

Philip K. Lundeberg: Swedish mine horn and firing apparatus, mid-twentieth 
century (1979.0821); book, Damage Control, by Naval Training School, 1944 
(1979.1122); plastic ship models for destroyer Gearing, c. 1930s, Destroyer 
"Fletcher" Class, WW II, Russian Cruiser "Swerdlow" Class, WW II, and 
Rocket Cruiser "Boston" Class, 1950s, all made in Germany in the 1970s 
(1980.0040). 

Kenneth Lynch: 2 large fids and a wood maul (1980.0263). 

J. F. MacDonald: button, "Jane Byrne for Mayor / One Chicago" (1980.0288). 

Mrs. Richard M. Mace: 5 women's shoulder pads (1979.0092). 

Adele Squibb Maclay: set of 3 bound volumes of E. R. Squibb's diary written 
on his trip to Europe in 1890, and 1 bound volume of newsclippings, letters 
of condolences, etc., relating to the death of E. R. Squibb (1979.1132). 

Osceola H. L. Madden: 16-star, silk, Civil War flag (1980.0055). 

Wilfred R. Maggiar: 34-star US flag allegedly flown from the US Monitor in 
1862, or during the American Civil War (1979.1080). 

Emilie Noakes Manley in memory of Margaret Clarke Goodall Bradley: ap- 
pliqued and embroidered bedcover, signed by President Benjamin Harrison 
and cabinet members; appliqued and embroidered bedcover bearing the 
signature of President Theodore Roosevelt and cabinet members (1979.1019). 

Roger Manley: French tuberculosis poster (1980.0321). 

Mrs. C. Harrison Mann, Jr.: 5-piece tin-glazed earthenware tea service made 
in Marseilles, France, c. 1748-93. 



536 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Lucile Q. Mann: canvas-work picture, in original frame, of Prince Albert's 
favorite greyhound (1979.9879). 

Kenneth Margolies: labor union materials, including 6 buttons and 1 poster 
(1979.1048). 

Marine Hall Fund: Marine course indicator (1979.0825). 

Lorraine D. Marsh: Christmas tree ornament, c. 1918 (1980.0178). 

Howard W. Marshall: adobe brick, c. 1870, and a trivet (1980.0019). 

Jay Marshall: glove puppet, "Lefty," used by the donor (1980.0283). 

Walter L. Mason, Jr.: political poster of Levi P. Morton (1979.0945). 

Mary E. Maxwell Fund: stoneware jug, child's highchair, wood clothes rack, 
clam basket (1979.1173). 

George W. Maynard: model of a vise seat (1979.0802). 

Edith P. Mayo: 5 items from "The Longest Walk" including an article, hand- 
out, letter, poster, and a T-shirt (1979.0163); 5 copies of The Evening Star 
newspaper, 1 copy of The Sunday Star newspaper, issues relating to Presi- 
dent John F. Kennedy's death (1979.1210). 

Henry C. Mayo: WW II ration books, newspaper article, tire inspection 
record, and literature (1979.0937). 

McCarthy for President (through Ralph E. Becker) : campaign paraphernalia 
related to the Eugene McCarthy Presidential Campaign in 1968 (1980.0394). 

Charles G. McCausland: ship model of the USS Constitution (1980.0107). 

Kathleen McDermott, in memory of Lance Corporal Richard Allen Cassell 
(through Bruce Bazelon) : US Marine Corps enlisted man's summer service 
uniform and accessories, 1969-70 (1979.0547). 

Lula Jean McDowell: 2 hand fans with pictures of black elected officials 
(1979.0752); 5 handouts and a bumper sticker used in George Bush's Re- 
publican presidential campaign (1980.0172). 

George E. McGarry: USMC field parka used during winter training at Camp 
Polar Bear and a pair of white survival gloves, 1950 (1980.0450). 

Mary U. McLaughlin: 27 phonograph records (1980.0099). 

Franklin and Irene Leahy McMahon: 2 16mm prints of political campaign films 
(1979.0630). 

Grace Roosevelt McMillan: silver gilt card case owned by Edith Carow Roose- 
velt (1979.0758). 

Anita McMonigle: 1 copy of Newsweek magazine, June 9, 1980 (1980.0397). 

George Meany Center for Labor Studies (through Philip Yunger) : 3 strike 
posters (1979.0990); (through Genevieve M. Lutz) : labor union materials 
including 9 phonograph records and 11 posters (1979.0913); 2 union booklets 
(1979.0977). 

Patricia P. Medina: collection of prints, posters, and illustrated books by 
H. A. P. Grieshaber (1979.0928). 

Esther Ch. Meixner and Ruth L. Meixner: portrait of Edgar Bergen and Charlie 
McCarthy by C. von Schneidau (1980.0361). 

Henry Melnicoff: Agfa flashlight-lamp and a lens with brass barrel (1980. 
0198). 

Jean C. and Leroy M. Merritt: racquetball equipment and clothing and bumper 
sticker from the Towson Court Club (1979.0799). 

Leah G. and Merle D. Michael: 72 phonograph records (1979.1021). 

Michigan Friends of Chester A. Arthur (through Jerry D. Roe) : Chester A. 
Arthur memorabilia including 1 book, traveler's light, letter opener sheath, 
boot hooks, shoe buttoner, pin tray, cigarette case, cigar cutter, and a 
Grant medal (1978.2198). 

Mrs. Marian C. Mickelwait: 2 Christmas plates from 1979, 1 by Bing & 
Grondahl, the other by Royal Copenhagen (1979.0923). 

John T. and Diana C. Middleton: 1 Jacquard woven coverlet, "1938 OHIO" 
(1980.0089). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 537 



Madge O. N. Middleton: 55 eighteenth-century banknote engravings by 
George B. McCartee and George W. Casilear (1980.0221). 

Dr. R. Hunter Middleton: 2 impressions printed by the donor from Bewick's 
woodblock Horses (1979.0926). 

David and Joseph Miller families (through Irene V. Galdston and Irving D. 
Miller) : collection of 87 knives and knife-making tools (1979.1204). 

Minnesota Historical Society, Division of Archives and Manuscripts (through 
John Wickre): lithograph, Hamilton Woolen Co., c. 1870 (1979.0869). 

Fern Mischke: Van de Kamp's Bakery Uniform, including dress, apron, cap, 
and pin (1979.0460). 

Charles M. Momberg: 2 Army-Navy production awards and a card of presen- 
tation that accompanied the production awards (1980.0078). 

John B. Montville: hub odometer, 1915 (1979.0681). 

Bobby Morrow: Olympic Gold Medal won by donor in 1956 for track (1979. 
0619). 

William B. Mozey, Jr.: swagger stick with silver top and Chinese markings, 
US China Expedition (1980.0223). 

Ms. Magazine (through Joanne Edgar and Gloria Steinem) : preview issue 
(Spring 1972) of Ms. Magazine (1978.1079). 

Alberta M. and John H. Murphy: 2 union booklets from 1927 (1979.0753). 

Mrs. John H. Murray: watercolor painting of a young woman, a painted tin- 
ware deed box and 2 tinware alphabet plates (1979.1143) ; saucer, plate, and 
bottle (1980.0210); 16 nineteenth-century fashion plates (1980.0325); 1 cast- 
iron bank, 1 wooden kaleidoscope, 1 porcelain doll's head, plus a papier- 
mache tray, all made between 1850 and 1900 (1980.0341); straw embroidery 
fragment and damask fragment (1979.0720); damask towel, lady's purse, 
sampler, crocheted center piece, embroidered picture with frame, and a sew- 
ing box (given in memory of John and William Wood) (1979.1250). 

Stan Musial: baseball bat used by the donor to achieve the 3,000 hit goal on 
May 13, 1958 (1979.0620). 

Dr. Eugene E. Myer: 13 medical objects, including 2 doctor's signs, surgical 
operating lamp, sterilizer, electro-therapeutic device, cotton holder, instru- 
ment sterilization tray, surgical drill, electrical foot treadle, engine mount, 
metal container, chiropodist chair, and an instrument cabinet (1979.1095); 
2 shaft hangers, bench power press, leather-cutting die, bench leather slitter 
and a line shaft with pulley (1979.1096); 41 pieces of type-making tools and 
equipment (1980.003). 

Anne B. and Denys Peter Myers: ingrain carpeting fragment (1979.1218). 

Dr. Perham C. Nahl: a collection of 378 American Contract Air Mail flight 
covers (1980.0243). 

Naito Foundation (through Yuji Naito) : 2 wrist watches (1980.0448). 
Government of The Netherlands, Netherlands Postal and Telecommunications 
Services (through A. W. Van Ommeren and J. D. Smeets) : 12 mint postage 
stamps of The Netherlands (1979.0966). 

Mrs. Anna H. Newby: pickle dish with tongs and cut-glass container (1979. 
0800). 

Hayes A. Newby: Super-Marvel Violet Ray Kit (1979.0771). 

Ray F. Newman: 3 circus posters (1979.1137). 

New York & New Jersey Sandy Hook Pilots Association (through Thomas A. 
McGoldrick): 2 framed oil paintings of pilot boats New Jersey and New 
York (1980.0262). 
Niagara-Mohawk Power Corp. : tachometer used on dynamo in generating sta- 
tion (1979.0819). 
Jack Nicklaus: golf club used by donor (1979.0621). 
Government of Niue, Niue Post Office: 10 mint postage stamps, 7 mint souve- 



538 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



nir sheets, 6 used postage stamps, and 2 First Day covers, all of Niue 
(1979.0996). 

Norcross Company (through Alfred E. Hill and Jack L. Messman) : greeting- 
card collection (1979.0333). 

North American Soccer League (through Robert J. Ehlinger) : soccer uniforms 
from Pele, Rote, & Roth, and a soccer ball (1979.1059). 

Oberlin College (through James L. Powell) : celestial globe and a sextant 
(1980.0075). 

Paul H. Oehser: war rationing book (1980.0264). 

John R. Ograin: cigar ring gauge (1979.0776). 

Richard O'Neill: direct vision spectroscope (1979.1180). 

International Union of Operating Engineers (through Reese Hammond) : union 
documents and phonograph records including 15 receipts for dues, 2 peti- 
tions for membership, 2 booklets, 1 ledger, and 3 phonograph records 
(1979.0755). 

Bobby Orr: hockey skates and gloves used by the donor (1979.0634). 

Virginia Gunter Haas Orvis: silver card case owned by Letitia Christian Tyler, 
wife of President John Tyler (1980.0120). 

Hildegarde S. Ossi (in memory of Peter Anthony Ossi) : 10 acetate-film de- 
signs for screen printing, 1 sample of wallpaper, 7 samples of printed 
fabric, 1 fragment of printed fabric, and 2 pieces of screening used in 
screen printing (1980.0015). 

Ralph Oswald: 3 membership cards for the International Union of Operating 
Engineers, 1 receipt for dues, and 10 membership books from 1939-75 
(1979.0754). 

Harry E. Page: 1 lot of clapboards, c. 1780, from Durgin Farm in Henniker, 
New Hampshire (1979.0982). 

Arnold D. Palmer: Masters Tournament trophy, 1958-60 won by the donor 
(1979.0664). 

Paramount Television Productions (through Gary Nardino and Henry Wink- 
ler) : brown leather jacket worn by "Fonzie" on the TV series "Happy Days" 
(1980.0094). 

Frank Paris: marionette puppet, "Princess Dancing Bear" (1980.0352). 

Lillian R. Parks: scarf marked "Margaret Truman," silver evening purse with 
Mrs. Truman's calling card inside, glass ashtray of Mrs. Eisenhower's, pic- 
ture of Mrs. Eisenhower with the White House Staff, and a picture of the 
donor sewing (1979.0784). 

Marvin B. Patterson: woman's clothing items from 1964, including a 3-piece 
ensemble, a pair of shoes, and a purse (1979.0484). 

Harry Patton: table runner and set of 6 tablemats made of fabric from 
Szechuan province, China (1979.0210). 

M. L. Pearl: 2 nails from Roman legionary fortress of Inchtuthil, Perthshire 
(1979.0981). 

Pete Pedroli: enamel cup (1980.0036). 

Martin L. Peller: a campaign leaflet "Why Choose Between Tweedle-Dee and 
Tweedle-Dum" (1980.0389). 

D. B. Perkins, Jr., and Virginia W. Perkins: 24 phonograph records (1979.1182). 

Martin J. A. Petersilia: Washington, D.C. City Council materials including 
buttons, flyers, and literature from 1978 (1979.0729); ration book case, 
ration books, small redish-brown envelope, and ration buttons (1979.0737); 
Republican campaign pamphlet, button, and lapel button from the 1920s 
and 1930s (1979.0788). 

Paul P. Petersilia: 2 inaugural vehicle passes from 1933 (1979.0751). 

Cornelia B. Peterson: silver and steel set of 12 knives and 12 forks in original 
case, eighteenth century (1978.2424). 



Appendix S. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 539 



Mendel L. Peterson: German center-fire 2-barrel pistol and a European center- 
fire 2-barrel pistol (1979.1075); 176 philatelic objects, including 31 US way- 
bills, 21 US photos and documents with revenue stamps, 59 US stampless 
covers, 31 US miscellaneous covers, and 34 foreign covers (1980.0251); 6 
newspapers concerning the assassination of President John F. Kennedy 
(1979.1170); 7 political tokens (1979.1171). 

The Karl E. Pfeiffer family (through Mary Clare Pfeiffer Vanderploeg and 
Elizabeth Pfeiffer Wilburn) : ship's carpenter's tools and chest (1979.0929). 

James A. Piper: campaign materials for various candidates for the District of 
Columbia City Council, 1976 (1979.0730). 

Pittsburgh Pirates Baseball Team (through John W. Galbraith): Pittsburgh 
Pirates baseball items, including Wilver Stargell's uniform, a catcher's mask, 
a baseball bat, a base, and a pennant (1979.1020). 

Pittsburgh Steelers Football Team (through Daniel M. Rooney) : Pittsburgh 
Steelers Super Bowl material including Terry Bradshaw's football pants, 
jersey, socks, and shoes, Franco Harris's helmet, Joe Green's jersey, the 
football used in the 1980 Super Bowl game, a scrimmage marker, and a yard 
marker (1980.0131). 

Paul J. Plishner: WW I spark gap transmitter (1979.1102). 

Valena White Plisko: Poster, handout, and a tag from anti-war demonstrations 
(1979.0731). 

Joan Pogson: T-shirt, "Alcoholism is a Woman's Issue" (1980.0149). 

Henry Porter: 3 Kodak roll-film cameras, Minox subminiature camera, Erma- 
nox plate camera, hand-held steroscope by Underwood & Underwood, c. 
1894, and a boxed set of 36 sterographs of the Grand Canyon (1977.0717). 

Henry and Mark K. Porter: silver service, including hot water kettle, stand, 
burner, coffee pot, covered sugar bowl, waste bowl, teapot, and creamer 
(1980.0027). 

Government of Portugal (through Direccio Geral de Correios) : First Day 
cover, unused postal card, and a mint souvenir sheet, all of Portugal 
(1979.0957). 

Potomac Electric Power Company (through Peter H. Benziger) : fireless loco- 
motive by Heisler Locomotive Works, made in 1938 (1979.1027). 

Pravel, Gambrell, Hewitt, Kirk, Kimball, and Dodge: paper-bag machine, 
patented by Margaret E. Knight, Springfield, Massachusetts, October 28, 
1879 (1980.0004). 

Eunice B. Prellwitz: 4 WW I posters by Edith Mitchell Prellwitz (1980.0173). 

Professional Insurers & Associates, Inc. (through Donald A. Newton) : Friden 
Automatic Typewriter System, consisting of a Computyper 5610 and a 
Flexowriter 2205, with associated manuals (1979.0823). 

Bradley Quinn: ski jumping helmet, c. 1934 (1979.0983). 

Mary F. and Robert L. Raley: 2 side chairs, a bed, blanket chest, chest of 
drawers, cradle, roof tile, and a decorative tile (1980.0026). 

Sylvia Raphael: information kit on voter registration by mail as implemented 
in Montgomery County, Maryland (1979.0748). 

Edith D. Rawlett, in memory of Randolph M. Rawlett: framed certificate from 
the Georgetown Female Seminary, dated 1844 (1980.0077). 

Ruth D. Ray: teaching machine consisting of one multitester and one poly- 
graph. Related documentation to the teaching machine and to a "rational 
learning machine" (1979.0853). 

Edward J. Reiss: French pocket watch (1980.0423). 

Mrs. Freda L. Reiter: 23 original drawings made by the donor for use on ABC 
TV News (1979.1113). 

John Paul Remensnyder: 261 pieces of copper and brass objects (1980.0939). 

Kenneth W. Rendell: lithograph of Abraham Lincoln (1980.0289). 

Georgiana B. Rhine: collection of 32 hand molders' tools (1979.0899). 



540 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Dorothy M. Richardson: Cine-Kodak motion picture camera with leather 

carrying case, c. 1927 (1980.0124). 
Judith A. Richardson: football program, Redskins vs. Giants, September 16, 

1937 (1980.0301). 
The Richton Jewelry Company, Inc. (through Gerry E. Hansen and Lois Beek- 

man) : 23 pieces of women's jewelry from 1974 (1979.0059). 
John H. Rick: glass tube cutter and 3 glass tubes (1979.0857). 
Leo Ring: 2 early labor union handbills (1979.0988). 
Ringling Brothers, Barnum & Bailey Circus (through Irvin and Kenneth Feld) : 

3-piece costume worn by Gunther Gebel Williams, costume design drawing, 

circus poster, elephant hook, animal trainer's whip, elephant harness, and 

8 circus programs (1980.0282). 
Mary Livingston and S. Dillon Ripley: bell cord button (1979.0828). 
Deborah Ritter: job rally materials from April 1975 (1979.0734). 
Betty K. Harrison Roberts and John Alexander Roberts: handmade rake with 

curving handle (1980.0189). 
The Robertson Corporation (through Charles R., Joe E. and Richard S. Robert- 
son) : middlings purifier and a roller mill (1980.0110). 
Paulette Robischon, Ph.D., R.N. : Camp Fire Girl ceremonial gown and related 

items (1979.0378). 
The Rogers Company (through Phillip R. Frable) : pageant costumes (1980. 

0302). 
Mrs. Alice Ross Rogers: silver spoon made on USS Brandywine in 1828 (1980. 

0312). 
Henry H. Rogers: Liberian stamp collection and other philatelic objects (1980. 

0252). 
Hazelle H. and J. Woodson Rollins: 6 marionettes, 2 rod puppets, 2 hand 

puppets, 3 posters, and a backdrop (1979.1164); minstrel marionette, c. 

1860 (1979.0974). 
Christopher Roney: Little Compton, Rhode Island, Little League uniform, in- 
cluding shirt, pants, and cap (1980.0127). 
Ellen C. Roney: match book with legends "Vote for Repeal" and "Elect Al 

Smith" (1979.1169). 
Margo Rose: "Howdy Doody" marionette used on the NBC TV show, 1947-60 

(1980.0123). 
John Rossel: collection of 155 electric razors (1977.0536). 
David Rothman: Time magazine cover from July 1, 1946, Newsweek magazine 

from March 10, 1947, Saturday Review magazine from April 14, 1956, and 

Newsday newspaper from April 19, 1955 (1979.0808). 
Roy's Orthopedic, Inc. (through John Ficociello and Raymond A. Hendrick- 

son) : 1 lower extremity artificial leg (1980.0320). 
Pete Rozelle: photograph showing donor's installation as Commissioner of the 

National Football League, January 20, 1960 (1979.0535). 
Rubin Brothers Waste Company (through Edward Rubin): 79 US Navy, Ma- 
rine Corps and Coast Guard uniform items (1978.2481); US Navy Waves 

dress skirt, shorts, c. 1978, plus US Navy (Seabees) pillow case and seabag, 

c. WW II, and US Navy bell-bottom trousers, c. WW I (1980.0090). 
Edwin Rubin: 16 US Navy Coast Guard, and US Marine Corps uniform items, 

WW 11-1975 (1979.0767). 
Gloria A. Rupp: Buck Jones cutout and a postcard of the Statue of Liberty 

(1980.0073). 
William P. Rush (through Robert F. Wheeler): Leclance-type cell battery 

(1979.0429). 
William F. Russell: basketball presented to donor for 10,000 rebounds (1979. 

0622). 
Curtis W. Sabrosky: Scrapbook with postcards (1980.0417). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 541 



Terry M. Sachs: metal slide rule, wooden slide rule, versalog slide rule in- 
structions manual, three pamphlets on slide rules (1980.0097). 
Marvin V. Sawyer, Jr.: collection of 412 glass insulators (1978.0246). 
Francis B. Sayre, Jr., and Harriet Hart Sayre: Mandolin from the household of 

Woodrow Wilson with a leather case for the instrument and a leather case 

with 4 tortoise shell picks (1979.0757). 
Dr. Albert Scaglione: 4 monoprints by Laszlo Dus (1979.1035). 
Charles M. and Virginia A. Schaefer: brown derby, 1928 (1979.1036); furniture 

scarf (1979.0934). 
Carl H. Scheele: sign, "Slow/Children Playing" (1980.0217); 79 phonograph 

records (1980.0314). 
Martha Anne Scheele: pair of cheerleader's pompoms (1980.0224). 
Freda K. Schiller: Autograph of Edgar Bergen and "Charlie," 1938 (1979.0623). 
Carl Schlesinger: a collection of tools and material documenting the con- 
version of the New York Times from linotype to photocomposition (1980. 

0194). 
Herman R. and Louise C. Schmitt: program and pass to the signing of the 

Versailles Peace Treaty, June 28, 1919 (1979.0832). 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Schnormeier: Dulcitone by Thomas Machell & Sons 

(1980.0041). 
Joan Ellen Schulmen: batik-patterned silk wallhanging (1979.0209). 
David Schwartz: shovel plow blade (1979.1045). 
Catherine D. Scott: 8 early children's records (1979.1184). 
Tom Seaver: "Trojans" baseball uniform worn in college by the donor (1979. 

0624). 
Art Seitz: 2 Democratic State Committee letters, one dated 1867, the other 

dated 1868 (1980.0068). 
E. Ray Shank: a collection of 3,108 plate number strips and blocks of the 

United States Christmas stamp, issue of 1969 (1980.0234). 
Elisabeth and Matthew E. Sharpe: porcelain soup plate, "Tiger and Bamboo" 

pattern (1979.1151). 
Jane Lin Shaw, in memory of Chen Yung Shaw (through Virginia Beets) : 

button and leaflet supporting the normalization of relations between the US 

and the People's Republic of China (1979.0749). 
David H. Shayt: yearbook, The Reflector, 1900 (1979.1183). 
Caroline Shelden: 4 pairs of women's earrings (1979.0597). 
Nina Silver: 2 women's movement buttons (1979.0191); 2 buttons, sheet music, 

and a printed page of lyrics from Bella Abzug's campaign for Mayor of New 

York City (1979.0750). 
Vijai Pal Singh: 2 used postage stamps of British Central Africa, Scott nos. 

68 and 69 (1980.0235). 
Smith College (through Professor Bruce Hawkins) : Spectroscope, double siren, 

theodolite, color standard transparency, and a set of glass vials in a 

leatherette case (1980.0098). 
Julia Helen Smith: temperance leaflet W.C.T.U. (1979.0742). 
Mrs. Loretta Thomsen Smith: 2 picture postcard albums (1980.0059). 
Louise J. Smith: a collection of 462 US covers and postal stationery, and 

foreign covers, postal stationery and revenues on documents (1980.0398). 
Eva Baumann Speciner: spoon with "Charlie McCarthy" handle (1979.0380). 
Sports Illustrated (through Harry C. Rubicam) : Greek amphora, c. 510 B.C. 

(1979.0696). 
Dick Sprafke: 1 section of wooden water pipe (1980.0286). 

Dorothy L. Squires: Electro-therapeutic machine contained in case (1980.0011). 
Benjamin, Harvey G., and Norman Stack: US Trade Dollar, 1884 (1979.0979). 
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (through Eugene B. Rickansrud) : SLAC 

section, SLAC klystron, and SPEAR vacuum section (1980.0177). 



542 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



George B. Stanford: No. 1 folding Buster Brown camera (1980.0142). 

Edna L. Stantial: women's history and suffrage materials (1979.0939). 

Daniel P. Stanton: US Navy enlisted man's white uniform hat, worn by the 
donor (1979.0449). 

Dr. Frank Stanton: radio receiver (1979.1269). 

Ann Pendleton Stephens and Timothy T. Stephens: sports material used by 
T. T. Pendleton in his high school and college careers (1979.0984). 

Richard Stevenson: 2 copies of a limited edition, philatelic/numismatic cover 
postmarked September 5, 1974, in commemoration of the First Continental 
Congress (1980.0436). 

Dr. Alexander Stewart: 2 obstetrical forceps (1980.0109). 

Jackie Stewart: crash helmet used by the donor (1979.0537). 

Janet Newbold Stewart: silver tankard by Elias Pelletreau (1979.1142). 

Leslie J. Stewart: hair twister, iron needle, iron awl, and 2 gauges (1979.0253). 

Todd W. Stockman: ventriloquist figure, "Shaun," made from Charlie 
McCarthy doll (1980.0401). 

J. & H. Stolow, Inc. (through Julius Stolow) : worldwide collection of 102,182 
philatelic objects, including mint and used postage stamps, souvenir sheets, 
proofs, first day covers, and special cancellation covers (1979.0941). 

Milton Story: Presidential campaign objects, including letters, placemat cases, 
caps, banners, window stickers, badges, auto attachments, coins, etc. 
(1979.0582). 

Lewis H. Strauss: political memorabilia including the pen used by President 
Eisenhower to sign Atomic Energy Act, silver box "R. N. Associates 1968," 
place card for Dirksen dinner in 1965, small ivory elephant, large jade ele- 
phant, Richard Nixon gold pen and holder, glass paperweight from Secre- 
taries Conference in 1955, glass cigarette box given to the donor for 
appearing on "Face The Nation" on August 28, 1955, Herbert Hoover 
Presidential Medal, and the fountain pen used to sign the final Armistice 
Agreement in Brussels on March 14, 1919 (1979.0657) ; woman's bag and coin 
purse, c. 1895 (1979.0668); circular slide rule (1979.0816). 

Bill D. Stribling: surveyor's compass (1979.0770). 

Opal E. Stykemain: mid-nineteenth-century German dye manual, document, 
sample books, and folder (1979.0714). 

Richard L. Sutton, Jr.: 12-place Underwood Olivetti printing calculator with 
instruction manual (1979.0854). 

John H. Swafford: radio transceiver (1979.1219). 

Government of Sweden, General Directorate of Posts (through Nils Horjel) : 
150 mint postage stamps, 56 First Day covers, 20 mint unexplored booklets, 
and 5 mint souvenir sheets, all of Sweden (1979.0994). 

Swiss-Bernina, Inc. (through Ray Dancer) : sewing machine model 830 (1979. 
0721). 

Hans Syz: Meissen stoneware teapot and cup (1980.0024). 

Taiwan Directorate General of Posts (through Y. C. Shih and Ay Wang) : 
rocpex taipei medal and plaque (1980.0244). 

James L. Taylor: 51 phonograph records of popular music (1979.0954). 

Clifford M. Templeman: Japanese silk flag captured in Philippines near Manila 
during WW II (1980.0054). 

Dr. Albert E. Thill: 1 card and 2 handouts related to Eugene McCarthy's 
Presidential Campaign (1980.0388). 

Dr. Russell J. Thomsen: a Fuller and Johnson Gasoline Engine (1980.0350). 

Douglas F. Thomson: charter and seal of the American Lodge of Free Garden- 
ers, 1889 (1979.0625). 

Robert Wilson Timmerman: collection of 113 blueprints made on linen show- 
ing the construction of a 50-million-gallon pumping engine (1980.0081). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 543 



Mary V. Tracy: anti-abortion and anti-ERA buttons (1979.0761); anti-ERA mate- 
rials including brochures, posters, a handout, and a newsletter (1979.0762). 

Laura M. Trexler: 2 men's hats, 1 men's hat box, 6 women's hats, 1 women's 
sunbonnet, 1 women's dress, 1 boy's hat, 1 girl's hat, and 1 pair of girl's 
stockings (1979.0077); cotton feather-tick cover (1979.0715); 2 painted win- 
dow screens (1980.0193). 

Thomas N. Tully: certificate of Apprenticeship, diploma from the Joint Car- 
pentry Apprenticeship Committee of Washington, D.C. and Vicinity, Jour- 
neyman's certificate from United Brotherhood of Carpenters & Joiners of 
America — all to Thomas Tully — a hard hat, and a lapel pin from the United 
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America (1979.0924); an arm patch 
with Stuart's portrait of George Washington (1980.0390). 

Lillian and Milton Turner: portrait of Albert Einstein by F. R. Petrie (1979. 
1026). 

Carl C. Twigg, Jr.: 3 tin cans — Great American Cinnamon, R & S Crystallized 
Oriental Ginger, and Herald Brand Crystallized Ginger (1980.0061). 

United Mine Workers of America (through Willard A. Esselstyn) : Norge elec- 
tric washing machine (1979.0416). 

United Nations Postal Administration (through Ole Hamann) : 798 mint post- 
age stamps and 12 used postage stamps, all of the United Nations (1979. 
0971). 

United States Steel Corporation (through Arthur B. Wilden) : 2 samples of Arc 
Weld Line pipe (314543). 

US Department of Defense, Department of the Army, The Chief of Military 
History and the Center of Military History: 57 US Marine Corps and US 
Navy utility uniform items (1979.0766). 

US Department of Defense, Department of the Army, Property Disposal Of- 
fice: New England pleasure cart (1980.0163). 

US Department of Defense, Department of the Navy, Naval Historical Center, 
Navy Memorial Museum (through Comdr. T. A. Damon) : calculating ma- 
chine (1979.0602). 

US Department of Defense, Department of the Navy, David W. Taylor Naval 
Ship Research and Development Center: A miscellaneous collection of strain 
gauges, indicators, flex bar specimens, a voltmeter and a milliampmeter 
(1980.0047). 

US Department of Defense, Department of the Navy, Naval Surface Weapons 
Center: Sealer-analyzer Model 128 SN101 (1979.0643). 

US Department of Defense, Department of the Navy, United States Marine 
Corps, US Marine Corps Musuem: 7 pairs of WW II US Marine Corps field 
shoes (1980.0411). 

US Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, National Institutes of 
Health: Recording spectrophotometer and a power supply (1979.1224). 

US Department of Health, Education and Welfare, Public Health Service: 3 
glass bottles from Boston Marine Hospital, c. 1880; diphtheria antitoxin, 
sealed bottle, 1895; microscope, Carl Zeiss, Jena, with case; epaulettes in 
black Japaned metal box; uniform, US Public Health Service Medical Of- 
ficer, Captain; instrument case with brass inset; brass ship's bell, c. 1893; 
ship model, Coast Guard cutter USS Bear; flag from quarantine launches, c. 
1890s (1980.0349). 

US Department of Justice, US Marshals Service: 6 slot machines (1979.0859). 

US Department of the Treasury, Bureau of Engraving and Printing (through 
Harry Clements) : 175 certified plate proof sheets of US postage stamps and 
souvenir sheets (1979.0906); 101 certified plate proof sheets of US postage 
stamps (1979.0921). 

US Department of the Treasury, Office of Administrative Programs, Facilities 
Services Division, Communications and Records Management Branch 



544 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



(through Sarah J. Allen) : WW II Allied Military Government materials 
including 123 unexplored booklets of stamps, 48 regular stamps, and 2 
Bureau of Engraving and Printing models for stamps used in Japan (1980. 
0001). 

US Federal Reserve System, Federal Reserve Bank of New York: smoke density 
gauge, steam gauge, and injector (1979.1248). 

US General Services Administration, National Archives and Records Service, 
Records Disposition Division: Broadside titled, "A Resolution that the first 
Wednesday in January next be the day for appointing electors in the several 
states," dated September 13, 1788 (1980.0118). 

US General Services Administration, Office Machine Shop (through David 
Horn): bookkeeping machine (1978.2371). 

US Legislative Branch, Library of Congress: sterling silver tumbler inscribed, 
"96 District to P.A. Linton" and "Sumner vs. Brooks" (1979.1209). 

US Legislative Branch, Library of Congress (through John C. Broderick) : an 
accumulation of US and foreign philatelic items (1979.0778). 

US Panama Canal Company (through Thomas C. Duty) : collection of 719 
glass negatives, c. 1903-late 1930s (1979.0543). 

US Postal Service, Customer Services Department, Stamp Management Branch 
(through James R. Williams) : 6 American commemorative stamp panels (3 
copies each) (1979.0963); Commemorative souvenir pages of US postage 
stamps (1979.0964); 71 mint US postage stamps, 20 unused US postal sta- 
tionery, 9 unused US postal cards, and 6 commemorative US stamp panels 
(1979.0965). 

US Postal Service, Office of International Postal Affairs, International Rela- 
tions Branch (through Michael J. Regan); 32 mint postage stamps of 
Venezuela (1979.0958); 170 mint postage stamps of Japan (1979.0959); 40 
mint postage stamps of Japan, 10 mint souvenir sheets of Japan, 38 mint 
postage stamps of Spain, and 6 mint postage stamps of Andora (1979.0960); 
55 mint postage stamps of Spain (1979.0961); 64 mint postage stamps of 
Gurnsey (1979.0962) ; 506 mint postage stamps and 2 mint souvenir sheets of 
Spain, 44 mint postage stamps of Spanish Sahara, and mint postage stamps 
from Andorra, Fernanco Poo, Ifni and Rio Muni (1979.0972); collection of 
mint postage stamps and souvenir sheets of China (1979.0973). 

Frank A. Van Riper: 2 badges and a button from the 1976 Republican and 
Democratic Conventions (1980.0048). 

Emma Prosperi Vantine: ledger of John Francis Prosperi (1890-1923), Wash- 
ington, D.C, musician (1980.0114). 

Vassar College (through Virginia B. Smith) : transit, position micrometer, 
sextant, orrery, reciprocating armature engine, Page's revolving magnet, set 
of glass bottles in leatherette case, microscope, position micrometer in ma- 
hogany case, and a bolometer (1980.0318). 

Pamela N. Violante: bumper sticker, "ERA / No Time Limit on Equality" 
(1979.0747). 

Robert M. Vogel: hand sewing machine, c. 1968 (1979.0842); 1 lithographic 
print of Harper's Ferry, Virginia (1980.0238); poster, From Cradle To The 
Crave, shows reflective scenes and incidents in the life of James A. Garfield 
(1980.0267); lined tablet with likeness of Herbert Hoover, drawing of the 
Capitol and the White House, and the legend "President" (1979.1168). 

Josephine M. Waggaman: waistcoat fragment, c. 1860 (1979.0935). 

Richard B. and Goldie Waghalter: 5 engravings by Chaim Goldberg (1980. 
0005). 

Roy E. Wagner in memory of Susan Brown Wagner: diploma from the Lexing- 
ton Female College, June 1869 (1980.0121). Counterpane of hand-woven 
tufted cotton (1979.0795). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 545 



A. Gayle and Frances E. Waldrop: collection of photomechanical prints and 
personal memorabilia belonging to John W. Osborne (1980.0310). 

Charles Lynn Walker: water-polo ball, booklet, "Water Polo Rules," and a 
swimming trophy awarded to the donor in 1959 (1970.0987). 

Susan N. Wallace: 1 banner, "Pittsburgh Committee for Human Rights" 
(1979.0746). 

George L. Walling: surveyor's vernier compass, Jacob's staff, and a surveyor's 
chain (1979.0769). 

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin E. Walter, Sr. : carpenter's tools and tool chest (1979. 
0797). 

C. Malcolm Watkins: 3 side chairs (1979.1253). 

Joan Pearson Watkins: iron teakettle with lid, c. 1800 (1979.1136). 

Mrs. Helen E. Weber: women's clothing items, including 2 pairs of shoes, 2 
2-piece suits, 2 blouses, a wedding dress, and 2 skeins of yarn (1979.0551). 

Welch Allyn, Inc. (through Lew F. Allyn) : diagnostic set consisting of 8 instru- 
ments in a leather case (1980.0176). 

John T. Welch: IBM card verifier (1979.0931). 

Francis Welsh: supermarket grocery bag with likenesses of the presidents 
from Washington through Johnson with a blank space for the president 
elected in 1964 (1979.1167). 

Wayne R. Wentland: campaign thimble, La Follette and Wheeler, 1924 (1979. 
0951). 

Thomas F. Wert: molder's corner- working tool (314500). 

Clarence A. West: transdipper (1979.0474). 

Western Electric (through W. G. Corgan) : diamond die drilling laser (1978. 
2210). 

George K. Wetterau: sled, "Flexible Flyer Racer" made in 1925 (1980.0091). 

City of Wheeling, West Virginia (through Mr. Frank Rodriquez and Mr. R. 
Clark Morton) : components of 3 Fink trusses removed from B&O Railroad 
freight depot, Wheeling, West Virginia, 1853 (1979.0544). 

Gloria Whipple: objects relating to the Michigan Women's Equality Day, 1974, 
including minutes, brochures, plastic bags, reports, fact sheets, membership 
lists, newspaper articles, biographies, posters, and literature (1979.0775). 

White City Elementary School (through Nancy Rinabarger) : 5 puppets, 7 
greeting cards, and a paper doll (1979.1153). 

John H. White, Jr.: William Earle Geoghegan educational materials, including 
a certificate from the Baltimore Grammar School, diploma from the Mary- 
land Institute for the Promotion of the Mechanic Arts, and 2 report books 
(1980.0336). 

Robert White: Spiro Agnew T-shirt (1980.0148); movie artifacts, including 3 
phonograph records, 5 comic books, and 2 souvenir books (1980.0202). 

Charles A. Whitmer: Republican campaign song, presidential album containing 
facts relative to campaigns, and "The Ladies' Note-Book and Calendar" 
(1979.0942). 

Grace B. Wiegand: manual, How To Construct a Four Tube T.R.F. Receiver, 
audio-visual set with filmstrips and phonograph record, "Fundamentals of 
Transistor Electronics," and an audio-visual set with filmstrips and phono- 
graph record, "Understanding Electricity" (1979.0200). 

Audrey Wiese: linen cloth with embroidered netting border (1979.0713). 

Constance R. and Thomas D. Williams : pewter beaker and a pewter haystack 
measure (1979.0815). 

Dorothy Cox Williams: women's clothing items including 2 blouses, 2 skirts, 
and a petticoat (1977.1071). 

Scott Willingham: pair of ballet-model skiis used by the donor (1979.0986). 

Abby S. and Marguerite Kotwitz Willowroot: 20 pieces of sterling silver 
feminist jewelry (1979.0744). 



546 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Mrs. J. Walter Wilson (through Elizabeth H. Leduc) : assortment of 25 toy 
spinning-tops from the nineteenth and mid-twentieth centuries (1979.0628). 

Laurence C. Witten II: 2 violins, a viola, and a guitar (1979.0647). 

Wittenberg University (through Dr. M. Paul Hagelberg) : set of 3 Pascal's 
vases and Queen air pump (1979.1202). 

Worcester Aid to Children (through Charlene Key Sokal) : ethyl chloride tube, 
surgical needle set in leatherette case, and a leatherette case containing 12 
glass tubes (1979.1077). 

Wunsch-Americana Foundation: Chippendale-style side chair, Lancaster Penn- 
sylvania, C. 1770 (1978.2455). 

Elwin S. Wyman: knitting machine accessory (1980.0329). 

Carl Yastrzemski: baseball batting-helmet used by the donor (1979.0540). 

Lillian Freeda Zimmerman and Philip W. Zimmerman: collection of 16 phar- 
maceutical and related items (1980.0429). 



NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 

Donors of Financial Support 

Antiquarian Society of Montgomery, 

Alabama 
The Barra Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. David P. Becker 
Mrs. Malcolm G. Chace, Jr. 
Mr. Thomas M. Evans 
Estate of David E. Finley 
Kent-Lucas Foundation, Inc. 
Mrs. Kathleen Scofield Louchheim 
The Ambrose Monell Foundation 
Philip Morris Incorporated 

Donors to the Collections 

The Mildred Andrews Fund 

David P. Becker 

Chanler A. Chapman 

Mrs. James Bryant Conant 

Mr. and Mrs. Timothy J. Desmond 

Mrs. Charles Dunn 

Norman Evans 

Benedict J. Fernandez 

Freer Gallery of Art 

The Margaret Hall Foundation 

Paul Horgan 

Murray Lebwohl 

Mr. and Mrs. Blair Lee III 

Mrs. Tyson Lee 

Wilmarth Sheldon Lewis 

(by bequest) 
Levi Hood Lodge of the BPOE of 

West Chester, Pennsylvania 
George C. Lodge 
Henry Cabot Lodge 



Newport Historical Society 

Old Stone Bank Charitable Foundation 

Outlet Company 

Redwood Library and Athenaeum 

The Rhode Island Historical Society 

Marvin Sadik 

Charles Simon 

C. G. Sloan & Co., Inc. 

Textron, Inc. 

Mrs. Barbara Tuchman 

Catharine Morris Wright 



Mrs. Katie Louchheim 

Paul Mellon 

A. M. Miller III 

David A. Morse 

Joan Murray 

The National Geographic Society 

John O'Brien 

Ms. Daren Pierce 

Peter G. Powers 

Raymond H. Schettler 

John Seeyle 

Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan 

The John Sloan Memorial 

Foundation 
Mrs. Varina Webb Stewart 
Mrs. William W. Thompson 
Mrs. Robert C. L. Timpson 
Joel A. H. Webb 
Frederick S. Wight 
John Wilmerding 



OFFICE OF AMERICAN AND FOLKLIFE STUDIES 



Donors to the Folklife Program 
Music Performance Trust Fund 



The Department of Energy 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 547 



MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

Donors of Financial Support 

Corning Glass Works Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Taylor 

International Communication Agency United States Department of Labor/ 
Reader's Digest Arts Partnership 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES 
Donors to the Collections 

INDIVIDUALS 

Shirley Briggs: the papers of Paul Bartsch. 

Riccardo Giacconi: the papers of Riccardo Giacconi. 

Mrs. Floyd A. McClure : the papers of Floyd A. McClure. 

Dan H. Nicolson: the papers of Dan H. Nicolson. 

Watson M. Perrygo: the papers of Watson M. Perrygo; taped reminiscences. 

Kjell Sandved: photograph collection. 

Doris H. Speirs : the papers of Margaret M. Nice. 

Egbert H. Walker: the papers of Egbert H. Walker. 

Mrs. Alexander Wetmore: the papers of Alexander Wetmore. 

Mrs. F. H. Wright: meteorologist records. 

John H. White, Jr. : the papers of John H. White, Jr. 

INSTITUTIONAL 

American Ornithologists' Union: the records of the Union. 

American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists: the records of the 

Society. 
Society of Systematic Zoology: the records of the Society. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 

Donors to the Collection 

Aukland Art Museum: 5 exhibition catalogues. 

William H. Allen: 76 aviation journals. 

Mrs. Leslie Avery: 7 volumes on glass bottles. 

Louis S. Ballif : Amaltheum Poeticum et Historicum, 1639. 

Alice Baldwin Beer: 200 journals. 

Charles G. Berger: The Dolls' House. 

Don Berliner: 12 volumes of Wings of the Mother Land. 

M. H. Bigelow: Pharmacopoeia Officinalis, by John Quincy, 1736. 

Faber Birren: Facsimile of LeBlon, J. C, Coloritto, 1980. 

Robert H. Blankemeyer: 3 volumes of Sforz Instruments catalogues. 

Frank H. Blumenthal: 45 issues of Airpost Journal. 

Daniel Boorstin: 30 monographs; 60 journals. 

Edward Botwin: 25 items. 

Mrs. Kay Brick: 36 issues of Jug Letter. 

R. N. Brown: 3 copies of Biotopes of the Western Arabian Gulf. 

William Bunce: 15 books. 

Mrs. Lester Cahn: 11 exhibition catalogues. 

Edgar Cave: 54 cartons of decorative arts books, journals. 

Centro de Arte y Communicacion: 25 publications. 



548 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Mrs. William Sloane Coffin: Catalogue of the Collection of George and 

Florence Blumenthal, 6 vols., Paris, 1926-30. 
Dr. Daniel Cohen: 25 journals on marine life. 
Herbert Collins: Mint Museum Antiques Show, 1979. 
Mrs. Lester Cooke: 39 books, charts, and magazines. 

G. Arthur Cooper: Hawaii's Birds, by the Hawaii Audubon Society, 1978. 
David Correll: Chemical Abstracts; Biochemical Sections, vols. 56-88. 
Rael and Evelyn Cowan: 5 cabinets of picture collection material. 
Owen Darcey: 7 issues and index of Douglas Services. 
Elaine Evans Dee: 15 exhibition catalogues, books. 
Kathy DeRiemer: 4 titles. 
Linda Dinsmore: 4 aircraft monographs. 
Embassy of Spain: 2 monographs. 
John Ewers: 44 journal issues. 

Richard Eyde: Polyploidy, Biological Relevance, 1980. 
Gertrude Fehl: 29 photographs. 
Lucy Fellows: 27 exhibition catalogues. 
Roger Ferriter: 126 type books. 
Kurt Fredriksson: 7 monographs. 
R. H. Gagner: Nancy McClelland archival material. 
Gallery Association of New York State: 10 exhibition catalogues. 
Felix Geiger: 6 volumes of Los Alamos University lectures. 
Dorothy Globus: 19 pictures. 

Hugh Goodhue: 2 items by and associated with Bertram Grosvenor Goodhue. 
Mrs. Marion Goodman: nineteenth-century books and journals. 
Jack Goodwin: Early Road Location, 1980. 
Paris Grand Palais: 4 exhibition catalogues. 
Woodtli R. Grandin: 12 volumes of medical books. 
Fred Graves: 6 books. 

James Austin Hanson: The Mountain Man's Sketch Book, by donor, 2 volumes. 
Paul F. Hart: 6 volumes of American Reference Library, 1900. 
Dr. Leroy Harvey: 100 botanical titles. 
E. P. Henderson: 4 volumes. 

Tom Hitchcock: 3 volumes of Monograph Close-up. 
James Hobbins: 48 issues of Journal of American History, 1967-1979. 
Hoikusha Publishing Company: Coloured Illustrations of Woody Plants of 

Japan. 
Harrison Hull: 9 volumes. 

Helen J. Hutchinson: Art of Natural History, by S. Peter Dance, 1978. 
Jesse Johnson: 7 monographs. 
Claire Kach: collection of books on needlework. 
D. Karshan: 9 cartons of books, journals. 
Erie B. Kauffman: 7 monographs. 
Bob Kaufmann: 21 books, journals. 
Kennedy Galleries: 21 exhibition catalogues. 
Mrs. Jessica Kennedy: 9 Brunschwig & Fils. press kits. 
Roman Kenk: 23 issues of Worm Runners' Journals. 
Warren King: Fauna Republicii Socialiste Romania: Aves, vol. 15, fasc. 1, 

1978. 
Larry Korwin: 16 color slides on banners. 
Dr. Karl Krombein: 8 volumes. 

Clem Labine: complete back run of Old House Journal. 
T. C. Lacey: 22 volumes. 
Harry Ladd: 2 volumes. 
Leo Lerman: 32 cartons of magazines, auction catalogues, books, invitations, 

and pictures. 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Jnstitution I 549 



Amy Levin: Proceedings of the Geoscience Information Society, volume 9, 

1979. 
Betty Lilienfield: 5 sales catalogues. 
Dr. Elbert L. Little: The Audubon Society Field Guide to North American 

Trees, 1980. 
Mary Jean Madigan: lifetime subscription to Art & Antiques. 
Dr. Robert Maloy: "Speculum" and "Papers" of the Bibliographical Society of 

America. 
Dr. Maurice Margulies: 6 volumes of Photosynthetica. 
Dr. Claire Marton: 11 volumes. 
Dr. Brian Mason: 11 volumes. 
David McFadden: sales catalogue. 

John J. C. McLaughlin: P. J. Shaw An Old York Church . . . 1908. 
Dr. James Mead: 6 volumes. 
Dr. W. G. Melson: 2 volumes. 

Pauline Metcalf : 39 magazines and exhibition catalogues. 
Casilear Middleton: 3 volumes. 
Robert C. Mikesh: 135 journal issues. 
Robert V. Miller: 9 volumes. 
Monogram Aviation Publications: 5 volumes. 
Patricia Moore: 6 volumes. 
Willfred Gibbs Moore: 42 monographs. 
National Museum of Art, Osaka: 6 exhibition catalogues. 
Harry P. Nicholas: Naval Disasters, 1813. 
Mike O'Daniel: 10 volumes of International Library of Afro-American Life 

and History. 
Richard Oliver: 4 exhibition catalogues. 

Dr. Storrs Olson: Les Oiseaux du Chili, by Emile Housse, 1948. 
Frank D. Orifici: 16 issues of Impact Confidential. 
Mrs. Augustus G. Paine: Collection of the Dresses of Different Nations, by 

Thomas Jeffreys, 2 vols., 1757. 
Horace W. Parsons: Or do Institutionum Physicarum, by Tho Rutherforth, 1756. 
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson: 190 volumes. 
Richard E. Petit: 23 volumes of Dictionnaire Universal d'Histoire Naturelle, 

1847. 
John H. Phipps: 53 monographs including de Toerakos. 
Mary W. Phillips: 6 magazines and books. 
Pierre Matisse Gallery: 6 exhibition catalogues. 
Glenn R. Polston: The Okavango River, 1861. 
Mildred D. Raitt: Popes Creek Plantation: Birthplace of George Washington, 

1979. 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Rau: 80 monographs and 50 pamphlets on Wedgewood. 
Dr. Clayton Ray: 2 volumes. 
Jacqueline Rea: 2 books. 

Dr. Nathan Reingold: Joseph Henry Library author and key-work index. 
Oscar W. Richards: 29 books and antiquarian dealer catalogues. 
Dr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley: Monography of the Genus Camellia, by Abbe 

Lorenzo Berlese, 1838. 
Christian Rohlfing: 1 book. 

Mrs. Marion Ross: 9 volumes of children's books. 
Emily Rudin: 3 volumes of Research Problems in Biology. 
Ernesto Salazar: 3 volumes. 

Kjell Sandved: Rain Forests and Cloud Forests, by donor, 1979. 
Frederic Saunier: 2 books, slides. 
Margaret Sealor: 138 volumes. 



550 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Marc Scott: pictures. 

Mrs. Celia Siegel and H. Rapin: La Sculpture Decorative Moderne. 

Sheila and Timmy Smith: 4 books. 

Dr. I. Gregory Sohn: 50 volumes. 

Milton Sonday: 1 exhibition catalogue. 

Norman Stack: 4 volumes. 

Dr. T. Dale Stewart: 22 issues of Journals of Forensic Sciences. 

Lorraine Suskind: 24 volumes. 

Mr. and Mrs. Radoslav Sutnar: 280 books. 

Lisa Taylor: 12 pictures. 

Mabel Thurlwell: Abbildungen Naturhistorischer Cegenstande in Hinsicht . . . 

1793. 
Time-Life Books: 10 volumes. 
Mrs. Arthur Ufland: 30 books. 
Hans L. Waehler: 8 magazines. 
Dr. Ronald Ward: 18 volumes on insects. 

C. Malcolm Watkins: Potters: Their Arts and Crafts, by John C. Sparkes, 1897. 
Dr. George Watson: Peregrine Falcon — Eastern Population and "Report" of 

the Bird Migration Research Center, 1978. 
June C. Wayne: 15 books. 

Gertrude Weinberger: 11 drawers of Picture Library material. 
Voolmar Wentzel: 3 volumes. 

Helene Weiss: stained-glass books, journals, postcards. 
Marlis Wienert: Kasseler Porzellan, by donor, 1980. 
Russell Wilcox: 9 volumes of The Keystone. 
Frederick Winship: 280 auction catalogues. 
Frank Winter: 4 volumes. 
Mrs. Donald Wood: nineteenth-century material, including missing volumes of 

Codey's and Petersons. 



PUBLIC SERVICE 

DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS 
Donors of Financial Support 

Alpha Xi Delta Foundation 

Gold Metal Products Co. 

Outdoor Amusement Business Association, Inc. 

Showmans League of America 

Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Institution 

OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION 

Donor of Financial Support 
Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation 

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS 

Donors of Financial Support 

Anonymous Joseph H. Hazen Foundation, Inc. 

I. U. International The Rockefeller Foundation 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 551 



MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT 

SMITHSONIAN RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM 

Donors of Financial Support 

National Endowment for the Humanities and National Endowment for the 
Arts: granted funds through the Belgian American Educational Foundation 
for the Program's participation in the international symposium, "Belgium 
Today/' April 20-May 31, 1980. 

National Science Foundation: granted funds for a seven-week series of free 
public lectures on energy, "Future Power," Oct. 2-Nov. 13, 1979. 

Smithsonian Women's Committee: partial funding for the Free Film Theater. 



JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 

Donors of Support to the 1980 Corporate Fund 



CORPORATE LEADERSHIP CIRCLE 

American Telephone and Telegraph 

Company 
Atlantic Richfield Foundation 
Conoco, Inc. 
Exxon Corporation 
General Foods Corporation 



International Business Machines 

Corporation 
Mobil Foundation, Inc. 
The Prudential Foundation 
Revlon Foundation, Inc. 
Standard Oil Company (Indiana) 



CORPORATE PATRONS 



CBS Inc. 

Champion International Corporation 
R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc. 
Texaco Philanthropic Foundation Inc. 



Time, Inc. 

United States Steel Foundation, Inc. 

The Xerox Foundation 



CORPORATE SPONSORS 

Alcoa Foundation 
Allied Chemical Foundation 
Anheuser-Busch Foundation 
Bethlehem Steel Corporation 
The Chase Manhattan Bank 
Coastal States Gas Corporation 
The Coca-Cola Company 
E. I. Dupont De Nemours & 

Company, Inc. 
Ford Motor Company Fund 
General Electric Company 
General Motors Foundation, Inc. 
Gulf Oil Corporation 



Johnson & Johnson Associated 

Industries Fund 
The Merck Company Foundation 
Philip Morris Inc. 
NCR Corporation 
Occidental Petroleum Corporation 
Price Waterhouse & Company 
The Procter & Gamble Fund 
Raytheon Company 
Sears, Roebuck & Company 
Tenneco Inc. 
The Washington Post Company 



CORPORATE DONORS 

Allis-Chalmers Foundation, Inc. 
The Allstate Foundation 
American Broadcasting Company 
American Can Company Foundation 



American Express Company 
American Security Bank, N.A. 
BankAmerica Foundation 
Bechtel Power Corporation 



552 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Bristol-Myers Fund 

Burroughs Corporation 

The C & P Telephone Company 

Caterpillar Tractor Company 

Celanese Corporation 

CIBA-GEIGY 

Citibank, N.A. 

COMSAT 

Consolidated Petroleum Industries, 

Inc. 
The Continental Group Foundation 
Corning Glass Works Foundation 
Dart Industries, Inc. 
John Deere Foundation 
Deloitte Haskins & Sells 
Dow Corning Corporation 
Dresser Industries Inc. 
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation 

Foundation 
Eastman Kodak Company 
Federal National Mortgage 

Association 
Foremost-McKesson Foundation, 

Inc. 
General Dynamics 
Getty Oil Company 
Gould Foundation 
Grace Foundation 
John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance 

Company 
Harris Foundation 
International Harvester Foundation 
International Paper Company 

Foundation 
International Telephone and 

Telegraph Corporation 
Johns-Manville Fund, Inc. 
Johnson & Higgins 
The Johnson's Wax Fund, Inc. 
The Joyce Foundation 
Kimberly-Clark Foundation, Inc. 



Kraft, Inc. 

Levi-Strauss Foundation 

Lincoln National Corporation 

Martin Marietta 

The McGraw-Hill Foundation Inc. 

Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & 

Smith Foundation 
Metropolitan Life Foundation 
The National Bank of Washington 
National Geographic Society 
Norton Simon, Inc. 
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Company 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 
The Pfizer Foundation, Inc. 
Phelps-Dodge Industries Inc. 
Pitney Bowes 

Potomac Electric Power Company 
Reader's Digest Association, Inc. 
Reynolds Metals Company 

Foundation 
The Riggs National Bank of 

Washington, D.C. 
St. Regis Paper Company 
Schlumberger Horizons, Inc. 
Security Pacific Charitable 

Foundation 
Charles E. Smith Companies 
Sperry Corporation 
Standard Brands, Inc. 
The Standard Oil Company of 

Ohio 
Sun Company, Inc. 
TRW Foundation 
The Times-Mirror Foundation 
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. 
Union Carbide Corporation 
Union Pacific Foundation 
United Technologies 
Wells Fargo Foundation 
Wheelabrator Foundation, Inc. 
Woodward & Lothrop, Inc. 



CORPORATE CONTRIBUTORS 

AMF Foundation 

Acacia Mutual Life 

American Airlines 

Ashland Oil Inc. 

AVCO Corporation 

Black, Starr & Frost, Ltd. 

The Boeing Company 

Cabot Corporation Foundation, Inc. 

Campbell Soup Fund 

Chesebrough-Pond's Inc. 

Chevy Chase Savings & Loan, Inc. 

Cities Service Foundation 



The Continental Corporation 

Foundation 
Cooper Industries Foundation 
CPC International Inc. 
Dan River Foundation 
Dayco Charitable Foundation, Inc. 
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation 
Emerson Charitable Trust 
Equitable Life Insurance Company 
Ethyl Corporation 
Garfinckel, Brooks Brothers, Miller 

& Rhoads, Inc. 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 553 



General Telephone & Electronics 

Corporation 
Giant Food Foundation, Inc. 
G. K. Technologies Foundation, Inc. 
Goldman, Sachs & Company 
Government Employees Insurance 

Corporation of America 
Halliburton Company 
The Sidney L. Hechinger Foundation 
The Hecht Company 
H. J. Heinz II Charitable & Family 

Trust 
Hospital Corporation of America 
Huntington T. Block Insurance 
Edward F. Hutton Foundation 
The Kiplinger Foundation, Inc. 
Lazard Freres & Company 
Lever Brothers Foundation, Inc. 
Liberty National Bank & Trust 

Company 
I. Magnin 
Mapco Inc. 
Mars Foundation 
Marsteller Foundation 



Montgomery Ward Foundation 
National Broadcasting Company, Inc. 
National Permanent Federal Savings 

& Loan Association 
National Savings & Trust 
National Steel Corporation 
New York Community Trust 
New York Life Insurance Company 
People's Drug Stores, Inc. 
Phillips Petroleum Company 
Reading & Bates Corporation 
Safeway Insurance Company 
Safeway Stores, Inc. 
Mary Horner Stuart Foundation 
Suburban Trust Company 
Technicolor Inc. 
J. Walter Thompson Company 

Fund Inc. 
Trans Union Corporation 
U.S. Air 

U.S. News & World Report 
Western Electric Fund 
Weyerhaeuser Company Foundation 
The Young & Rubicam Foundation 



NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

Donors of Financial Support 

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Bergman 

J. Carter Brown 

Mr. and Mrs. William N. Cafritz 

The Dayton Hudson Corporation and 

J. E. Caldwell Jewelers 
Dr. and Mrs. Georges de Menil 
L. H. Dishman 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Ducommun 
James Epstein 
David Epstein 

Mr. and Mrs. Harold L. Frank 
General Telephone and Electronics 

Service Corporation 
Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas Goulandris 
Mr. Leo S. Guthman 
Mr. and Mrs. James G. Hanes III 
Mrs. Enid Haupt 
Mrs. Joseph H. Hazen 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry J. Heinz II 
Mr. and Mrs. John Irwin II 
Harriot H. Jardine 
Edward C. Johnson III 
Mrs. A. Seward Johnson 
Mrs. Ruth Carter Jphnson 
Henrietta C. Kershaw 



Mr. and Mrs. Robert Kogod 
The Kresge Foundation 
The Samuel H. Kress Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Law 
Edward E. MacCrone Charitable 

Trust 
The A. W. Mellon Educational and 

Charitable Trust 
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation 
Paul Mellon 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon 
D. S. Meltzer 

General and Mrs. Dillman A. Rash 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Salomon 
Emy Shapiro 
Evelyn Sharp 
Robert H. Smith 
Ellie Spind 
Mrs. R. F. Tartiere 
Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Tobin 
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Vaughn, Jr. 
Washington Art League 
John Wilmerding 
Mr. and Mrs. William Wood-Prince 



554 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

Donors of Works of Art 

Anonymous 

Avalon Fund 

Ruth B. Benedict 

Ruth B. Benedict, in memory of Sophie and Carl Boschwitz 

Ruth and William Benedict, in memory of Lessing J. Rosenwald 

John and Louise Booth, in memory of their daughter, Winkie 

J. Carter Brown 

Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund 

Nathan Chaikin, in memory of Dorothy Daubel-Chaikin 

Collectors Committee 

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur E. Dreskin 

James, David and Richard Epstein Fund 

Barbara Fiedler 

Gemini G. E. L. 

Dr. and Mrs. George Benjamin Green 

Mrs. Francis W. Hatch 

Dahlov Ipcar 

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen, in memory of Lessing J. Rosenwald 

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S. Keck 

J. R. Kist 

Halleck Lefferts 

Karl Leubsdorf 

H. H. Walker Lewis, in memory of his parents, 

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin A. S. Lewis 
Mr. and Mrs. Earl H. Look 
Florence 5. McCormick 
Andrew W. Mellon Fund 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon 
Dr. Dieter Erich Meyer 
Pepita Milmore Memorial Fund 
Dr. and Mrs. Harold P. Morris 
Morton G. Neumann 
William B. O'Neal 
Robert S. Pirie 
Robert Rauschenberg 
Mark Reinsberg 
Elinor Roberts 

Andrew Robison, in memory of Lessing J. Rosenwald 
Felix Rozen 
David E. Rust 
Albert Scaglione 
Robert H. and Clarice Smith 
Mrs. Robert H. Thayer 
Mrs. Paul Tillich 
Josephine Tompkins 
David Tunick 

Arthur and Charlotte Vershbow 
Dr. and Mrs. Maclyn E. Wade 
Robert M. Walker 

Robert M. Walker, in memory of Lessing J. Rosenwald 
Emily M. Wilson, in memory of Anthony T. Wilson 
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Zeitlin, in memory of Lessing J. Rosenwald 
Tessim Zorach 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 555 



APPENDIX 9. Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution in 
Fiscal Year 1980 





Smithsonian 


Arts & 


Natural 


Air & 


Freer 


History & 




Institution 


Industries 


History 


Space 


Gallery 


Technology 


Month 


Building 


Building 


Building 


Building 


of Art 


Building 


October 1979 


64,081 


68,724 


329,195 


533,737 


24,999 


333,334 


November 


58,143 


61,509 


309,746 


553,040 


23,684 


243,527 


December 


51,882 


57,949 


213,384 


371,240 


20,137 


284,633 


January 1980 


31,463 


40,917 


185,866 


269,023 


15,444 


164,332 


February 


37,609 


49,879 


219,569 


301,263 


14,220 


196,426 


March 


68,546 


80,915 


389,398 


490,429 


23,618 


301,822 


April 


122,234 


168,619 


825,744 


864,529 


36,754 


680,822 


May 


95,132 


139,177 


756,057 


849,889 


31,593 


682,015 


June 


117,214 


149,297 


565,686 


720,443 


32,375 


514,572 


July 


155,059 


180,926 


599,444 


945,872 


30,809 


538,371 


August 


160,223 


163,628 


609,396 


923,776 


32,998 


494,580 


September 


61,808 


66,057 


199,379 


434,407 


25,214 


191,043 


TOTALS 


1,023,394 


1,227,597 


5,202,864 


7,257,648 


311,845 


4,625,477 





Trine Arts 






Anacostia 




Museum 






& 


Ren- 




Neighbor- 


Cooper- 


of 






Portrait 


wick 


Hirshhorn 


hood 


Hewitt 


African 




Month 


Gallery 


Gallery 


Museum 


Museum 


Museum 


Art 
4,197 


Totals 


October 1979 


' 31,865 


12,852 


72,699 


2,426 


9,462 


1,487,571 


November 


33,023 


20,839 


73,029 


3,361 


9,625 


5,231 


1,394,757 


December 


23,880 


16,781 


64,504 


3,800 


7,738 


5,877 


1,121,805 


January 1980 


24,506 


19,462 


46,959 


5,153 


9,327 


4,172 


816,624 


February 


29,635 


11,661 


49,461 


7,272 


12,379 


6,660 


936,034 


March 


37,891 


21,949 


80,636 


5,366 


20,120 


6,098 


1,526,788 


April 


34,714 


24,032 


122,452 


4,825 


10,440 


6,392 


2,901,557 


May 


31,100 


24,697 


110,204 


3,606 


10,924 


7,712 


2,742,106 


June 


34,784 


27,119 


102,264 


2,732 


12,751 


8,973 


2,288,210 


July 


33,604 


19,664 


98,105 


4,033 


11,188 


9,947 


2,627,022 


August 


29,986 


19,685 


106,626 


3,346 


10,719 


6,630 


2,561,593 


September 


26,551 


16,784 


51,881 


2,650 


9,998 


6,130 


1,091,902 


TOTALS 


371,539 


235,525 


978,820 


48,570 


134,671 


78,019 


21,495,969 



Note : Not reflected in the above tabulation are an estimated 2,200,000 visitors to the 
National Zoological Park in calendar year 1980. The very nature of the Park, with its 
indoor and outdoor exhibits and its several vehicular and pedestrian entrances, makes 
it impossible to obtain exact visitor statistics. To overcome this difficulty, NZP has 
developed a reliable sampling system, which was used to determine the 1980 
estimate. 



556 I Smithsonian Year 1980 



APPENDIX 10. The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries, 
September 30, 1980 



OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY 

THE SECRETARY S. DILLON RIPLEY 

Executive Assistant James M. Hobbins 

Special Assistant Joseph Coudon 

Administrative Assistant 

(Correspondence) Mary Lynne McElroy 

Administrative Assistant 

(Appointments) Mary Lee Nissley 

Supervisor, Secretary's Files Betty J. Edwards 

OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY 

The Under Secretary Phillip S. Hughes 

OFFICE OF THE SPECIAL ASSISTANT 
TO THE SECRETARY 

Special Assistant to the Secretary Richard H. Howland 

Curator, Smithsonian Institution 

Building James M. Goode 

Honorary Research Associate Paul H. Oehser 

OFFICE OF AUDITS 

Director Chris S. Peratino 

Assistant Directors Benedict T. Maltagliati 

Patrick J. Stanton 

SCIENCE 

Assistant Secretary for Service David Challinor 

Executive Officer Harold J. Michaelson 

Program Manager Ross B. Simons 

Administrative Assistant Rita Jordan 

OFFICE OF BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION 

Director Edward S. Ayensu 

Coordinator Robert A. DeFilipps 

Program Manager Marsha Cox 

OFFICE OF FELLOWSHIPS AND GRANTS 

Director Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth 

Assistant Director Roberta Wolff Rubinoff 

Grants Specialists Francine C. Berkowitz 

Betty J. Wingfield 

Program Specialist Edith McRee Whiteman 

Program Assistants Elsie Bliss 

Grace Murphy 
Administrative Assistant Catherine F. Harris 



Appendix 10. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries I 557 



CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES 

Director J. Kevin Sullivan 

Associate Director for Education 

Programs John H. Falk 

Associate Director for Science 

Programs David L. Correll 

Administrative Officer Donald L. Wilhelm 

Facilities Manager John Rynarzewski 

FORT PIERCE BUREAU 

Administrative Officer June J. Jones 

Carcinologist Robert H. Gore 

Embryologist/Life Histories Mary E. Rice 

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM 

Director Noel W. Hinners 

Deputy Director Melvin B. Zisfein 

Special Assistant to the Director F. C. Durant III 

Assistant Director for Resource 

Management and Operations Walter J. Boyne 

Administrative Officer M. Antoinette Smith 

Budget Analyst Wendy A. Stephens 

Registrar Robin A. Schroffel 

Theater Manager Ronald Wagaman 

Presentations Supervisor Edmund Barker 

Program Coordinator B. Ashley Ball 

Building Manager Claude D. Russell 

Acting Chief, Production Operations . . . Edward B. Chalkley 

Acting Chief, Preservation, Restoration 

and Storage Walter Roderick 

Supervisory Museum Specialist Alfred Bachmeier 

Chief, Exhibits Production Vacant 

Chairman, Aeronautics Department .... Donald S. Lopez 

Historian Emeritus Paul E. Garber 

Special Advisor for Technology Howard S. Wolko 

Curators Louis S. Casey 

Tom Crouch 
Robert Meyer 
Robert Mikesh 
Glen Sweeting 

Associate Curator Edmund Wooldridge, Jr. 

Assistant Curators Von D. Hardesty 

Claudia Oakes 

Research Director, Center for Earth 

and Planetary Studies Farouk El-Baz 

Geologist Ted A. Maxwell 

Robert W. Wolfe 
Research Associate Constance Andre 

Acting Chairman, Space, Science and 

Exploration Department Paul A. Hanle 

Curators Walter Flint 

Louis Purnell 

Astronomer Von del Chamberlain 

Historian Frank Winter 

Chief, Spacearium Vacant 

Curator of Art Vacant 



558 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Chief, Public Affairs and Museum 

Services Rita C. Bobowski 

Program Management Assistant Helen C. McMahon 

Chief, Education Services Division Kerry M. Joels 

Unit Chief, Outreach Programs Janet K. Wolfe 

Unit Chief, Special Programs Jelen Podolske 

Editor, Air and Space Jan W. Steenblik 

Docent and Tour Program Manager . . Holly Haynes 
Acting Chief, Exhibits and 

Presentations Division Richard Crawford 

Editor Edna Owens 

Exhibits Program Manager Richard Crawford 

Chief, Design Unit Robert Widder 

Chief, Audiovisual Unit Hernan Otano 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF MAN, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN 

Director Richard S. Fiske 

Associate Director James F. Mello 

Administrative Officer Sherrill Berger 

National Anthropological Film Center 

Director E. Richard Sorenson 

Research Film Studies Coordinator Gay C. Neuberger 

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCHOLARS 

Research Associates Asen Balikci, University of 

Montreal, Quebec 
John K. Marshall, Documentary 
Educational Resources, 
Somerville, Massachusetts 

Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies 

Director Roy S. Bryce-Laporte 

Administrative Assistant Betty S. Dyson 

Research Associate Donald L. Horowitz 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 

Director Richard S. Fiske 

Associate Director James F. Mello 

Deputy Director for Research Terry L. Erwin 

Special Assistant to the Director Catherine J. Kerby 

Writer-Editor Thomas R. Harney 

Administrative Officer Charles A. Ossola 

Registrar Margaret A. Santiago 

Budget Analyst Claretta Jackson 

Management Analyst John Townsend 

Registrar Margaret A. Santiago 

Building Manager Jerome A. Conlon 

Supervisory Information and Education 

Specialist, Office of Education Joan C. Madden 

Information Systems Manager, 

Automatic Data Processing Program . T. Gary Gautier 

Chief, Office of Exhibits Eugene F. Behlen 

Assistant Chief, Office of Exhibits William F. Haase 

Supervisory Museum Specialist, Scanning 

Electron Microscope Laboratory Walter R. Brown 

Operations Officer, Scientific Events 

Alert Network David R. Squires 



Appendix 10. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries I 559 



Anthropology 

Chairman Douglas H. Ubelaker 

Administrative Assistant Clara Ann Simmons 

Collections Manager U. Vincent Wilcox 

Conservation Laboratory, Supervisor . . . Carolyn L. Rose 

Illustrator, Supervisor George R. Lewis 

Processing Laboratory, Supervisor George E. Phebus 

Public Information Specialist Ruth O. Selig 

Curator, National Anthropological 

Archives Herman J. Viola 

LATIN AMERICAN ANTHROPOLOGY 

Curators Clifford Evans 

Robert M. Laughlin 
Associate Curator William H. Crocker 

NORTH AMERICAN ANTHROPOLOGY 

Curators William W. Fitzhugh 

Dennis M. Stanford 
William C. Sturtevant 

Associate Curator Bruce D. Smith 

OLD WORLD ANTHROPOLOGY 

Curators Gordon D. Gibson 

William B. Trousdale 
Gus Van Beek 

Associate Curator Adrienne Kaeppler 

PHYSICAL ANTHROPOLOGY 

Curators J. Lawrence Angel 

Donald J. Ortner 
Douglas H. Ubelaker 

Associate Curator Lucile E. St. Hoyme 

LINGUISTICS 

Associate Curator R. H. Ives Goddard 



RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS 



John P. Albanese (Geology) 
Larry D. Banks (Geology) 
Alison S. Brooks (Archeology) 
Ernest S. Burch, Jr. (Ethnology) 
Claire Cassidy (Physical 

Anthropology) 
Henry B. Collins (Archeology) 
Steven L. Cox (Archeology) 
John C. Ewers (Plains Ethnology) 
Donald Fowler (Archeology) 
Bruno Frohlich (Physical 

Anthropology) 
Brian Hesse (Archeology) 
Paula Hesse (Archeology) 
Eugene Knez (Ethnology) 
Betty J. Meggers (Archeology) 



Stephen Potter (Archeology) 
Walter Putschar (Physical 

Anthropology) 
Saul H. Risenberg (Ethnology) 
Scott Rolston (Physical 

Anthropology) 
F. Schulter-Ellis (Physical 

Anthropology) 
T. Dale Stewart (Physical 

Anthropology) 
Mildred Mott Wedel (Archeology 

and Ethnohistory) 
Waldo R. Wedel (Archeology) 
Theodore A. Wertime 

(Archeology) 
John E. Yellen (Archeology) 



560 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Botany 

Chairman Dieter C. Wasshausen 

Administrative Assistant Nella F. Lloyd 

Collections Manager George F. Russell III 

Senior Botanists Richard S. Cowan 

Mason E. Hale, Jr. 

PHANEROGAMS 

Curators Dan H. Nicolson 

Robert W. Read 
Dieter C. Wasshausen 
John J. Wurdack 

Associate Curators Robert B. Faden 

Marie-Helene Sachet 
Stanwyn G. Shetler 
Laurence E. Skog 

FERNS 

Associate Curator David B. Lellinger 

GRASSES 

Curator Thomas R. Soderstrom 

CRYPTOGAMS 

Curator Harold E. Robinson 

Associate Curator James N. Norris 

PALYNOLOGY 

Curator Joan C. Nowicke 

PLANT ANATOMY 

Curators Edward S. Ayensu 

Richard H. Eyde 



RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS 



Katina Bucher (Cryptogams) 

Jose Cuatrecasas (Flora of Tropical 

South America) 
Arthur Lyon Dahl (Algae) 
James A. Duke (Flora of Panama) 
Marie L. Farr (Fungi) 
F. Raymond Fosberg (Tropical 

Island Plants) 
Aaron Goldberg (Phanerogams) 
Charles R. Gunn (Seeds) 
LeRoy H. Harvey (Grasses) 
William H. Hathaway (Flora of 

Central America) 
Joseph H. Kirkbride, Jr. (Rubiaceae) 
James D. Lawrey (Lichens) 
Paul A. Lentz (Fungi) 
Elbert L. Little, Jr. (Dendrology) 



Alicia Lourteig (Neotropical 

Botany) 
Kittie F. Parker (Compositae) 
Duncan M. Porter (Phanerogams) 
Muriel E. Poston (Loasaceae) 
Clyde F. Reed (Phanerogams) 
Velva E. Rudd (Leguminosae) 
Lyman B. Smith (Flora of Brazil) 
Seymour H. Sohmer 

(Phanerogams) 
Frans A. Stafleu (Phanerogams) 
William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy) 
Philip Sze (Algae) 
Edward E. Terrell (Phanerogams) 
Francis A. Uecker (Fungi) 
Egbert H. Walker (East Asian 

Flora) 



Appendix 10. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries I 561 



Entomology 

Chairman Don R. Davis 

Collections Manager Gary F. Hevel 

Senior Scientists Paul D. Hurd, Jr. 

Karl V. Krombein 

NEUROPTEROIDS AND DIPTERA 

Curator Oliver S. Flint, Jr. 

Associate Curator Wayne N. Mathis 

LEPIDOPTERA 

Curators John M. Burns 

Don R. Davis 

W. Donald Duckworth 

William D. Field 

COLEOPTERA 

Curator Terry L. Erwin 

Associate Curator Paul J. Spangler 

HEMIPTERA AND HYMENOPTERA 

Curators Richard C. Froeschner 

Paul D. Hurd, Jr. 
Karl V. Krombein 



MYRIAPODA AND ARACHNIDA 

Curator 



Ralph E. Crabill, Jr. 



RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS 



Charles P. Alexander (Diptera) 
Donald W. Anderson (Coleoptera) 
Edward W. Baker (Mites) 
S. W. T. Batra (Hymenoptera) 
S. Franklin Blanton (Diptera) 
Barnard Burks (Hymenoptera) 
Robert W. Carlson (Hymenoptera) 
Oscar L. Cartwright (Coleoptera) 
J. F. Gates Clarke (Lepidoptera) 
Hilary Crusz (Insects of Sri Lanka) 
K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga) 
John H. Fales (Lepidoptera) 
Douglas C. Ferguson (Lepidoptera) 
Richard H. Foote (Diptera) 
John G. Franclemont (Lepidoptera) 
Raymond J. Gagne (Diptera) 
Robert D. Gordon (Coleoptera) 
E. Eric Grissell (Hymenoptera) 
Ashley B. Gurney (Orthoptera) 
Jon L. Herring (Hemiptera) 
Ronald W. Hodges (Lepidoptera) 
Harry Hoogstraal (Medical 

Entomology) 
John M. Kingsolver (Coleoptera) 
Lloyd Knutson (Diptera) 
James P. Kramer (Homoptera) 
Paul M. Marsh (Hymenoptera) 



Arnold S. Menke (Hymenoptera) 
Douglass R. Miller (Homoptera) 
Carl F. W. Muesebeck 

(Hymenoptera) 
Kenelm W. Philip (Lepidoptera) 
George W. Rawson (Lepidoptera) 
Mary Livingston Ripley (General 

Entomology) 
Louise M. Russell (Homoptera) 
Curtis W. Sabrosky (Diptera) 
Robert L. Smiley (Mites) 
David R. Smith (Hymenoptera) 
Theodore J. Spilman (Coleoptera) 
George C. Steyskal (Diptera) 
Manya B. Stoetzel (Homoptera) 
F. Christian Thompson (Diptera) 
Edward L. Todd (Lepidoptera) 
Robert Traub (Siphonaptera) 
Hayo H. W. Velthuis 

(Hymenoptera) 
Ronald A. Ward (Medical 

Entomology) 
Richard E. White (Coleoptera) 
Donald R. Whitehead 

(Coleoptera) 
Willis W. With (Diptera) 
David Wooldridge (Coleoptera) 



562 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Invertebrate Zoology 

Chairman W. Duane Hope 

Collections Manager Roland Brown 

Senior Zoologist Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. 

CRUSTACEA 

Curators J- Laurens Barnard 

Thomas E. Bowman 
Roger F. Cressey 
Charles W. Hart, Jr. 
Louis S. Kornicker 
Raymond B. Manning 

Associate Curator Brian F. Kensley 

ECHINODERMS 

Curators Frederick M. Bayer 

David L. Pawson 
Klaus Riietzler 

MOLLUSKS 

Curators Clyde F. E. Roper 

Joseph Rosewater 

Associate Curators Arthur H. Clarke 

Richard S. Houbrick 

WORMS 

Curators Robert P. Higgins 

Meredith L. Jones 

Associate Curators Kristian Fauchald 

Mary E. Rice 

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS 

S. Stillman Berry Patsy McLaughlin 

J. Bruce Bredin Charles G. Messing 

Stephen D. Cairns Marian Pettibone 

Fenner A. Chace Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr. 

Sing Chen Chang Harald A. Rehder 

Hillary Boyle Cressey Frank R. Schwengal 

Isabel Perez Farfante I. G. Sohn 

John C. Harshbarger Geerart J. Vermeij 

Lipke B. Holthuis Gilbert L. Voss 

Roman Kenk Austin B. Williams 

J. Ralph Lichtenfels David K. Young 

Mineral Sciences 

Chairman Daniel E. Appleman 

Administrative Services Assistant Elizabeth J. Ebel 

METEORITES 

Curators Roy S. Clarke, Jr. 

Brian H. Mason 
Geochemists Kurt Fredriksson 

Robert F. Fudali 

MINERALOGY 

Curator Paul E. Desautels 

Associate Curator John S. White, Jr. 



Appendix 10. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries I 563 



PETROLOGY AND VOLCANOLOGY 

Curators 



Richard S. Fiske 
William G. Melson 
Tom Simkin 



PHYSICAL SCIENCES LABORATORY 

Chemists Julie N. Barrows 

Eugene Jarosewich 
Joseph A. Nelen 

Electronics Technician Charles R. Obermeyer 

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS 



Vagn F. Buchwald (Meteorites) 
William C. Buell, IV (Volcanology) 
Gary R. Byerly (Petrology) 
Robert T. Dodd (Meteorites) 
John Filson (Meteorites) 
Michael Fleischer (Mineralogy) 
Martin Flower (Petrology) 



Edward Henderson (Meteorites) 
Peter A. Jezek (Petrology) 
Peter Leavens (Mineralogy) 
Paul B. Moore (Mineralogy) 
Geoffrey Thompson (Petrology) 
Othmar T. Tobisch (Petrology) 
John J. Trelawney (Mineralogy) 



Paleobiology 

Chairman Martin A. Buzas 

Collections Manager Frederick J. Collier 

INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY 

Curators Richard H. Benson 

Richard S. Boardman 
Martin A. Buzas 
Alan H. Cheetham 
Richard Cifelli 
Richard E. Grant 
Porter M. Kier 
Thomas R. Waller 

Geologist Kenneth M. Towe 

VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY 

Curators Nicholas Hotton III 

Clayton E. Ray 
Associate Curator Robert J. Emry 

PALEOBOTANY 

Curators Walter H. Adey 

Leo J. Hickey 
Frances M. Hueber 

SEDIMENTOLOGY 

Curator Jack W. Pierce 

Geological Oceanographer Daniel J. Stanley 

Geologist Ian G. Macintyre 

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS 

Patricia Adey G. Arthur Cooper 

Arthur J. Boucot Daryl P. Domning 

Sankar Chatterjee Raymond Douglass 

Anthony G. Coates J. Thomas Dutro, Jr. 



564 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Douglas Emlong* 
Ralph E. Eshelman 
Jerzy A. Federowski 
Robert M. Finks 
C. Lewis Gazin 
Mackenzie Gordon, Jr. 
Peter J. Harmatuk 
Bruce N. Haugh 
Joseph E. Hazel 
S. Taseer Hussain 
Ralph W. Imlay 
Jeremy B. C. Jackson 
Gilbert Kelling 
Zofia Kielan-Jaworowskia 
Harry S. Ladd 
N. Gary Lane 
Kenneth E. Lohman 
Venka V. Macintyre 
Andres Maldonado 
Sergius H. Mamay 
James F. Mello 



Robert B. Neuman 
William A. Oliver, Jr. 
Thomas F. Phelen 
John Pojeta, Jr. 
Roy H. Reinhart 
Charles A. Repenning 
Bruce Runnegar 
William J. Sando 
Frederick R. Siegel 
Elwyn L. Simons 
Judith E. Skog 
Norman F. Sohl 
I. Gregory Sohn 
George D. Stanley, Jr. 
Steven M. Stanley 
Robert S. Steneck 
Margaret Ruth Todd 
Frank C. Whitmore, Jr. 
Druid Wilson 
Ellis P. Yochelson 



Vertebrate Zoology 

Chairman George R. Zug 

Collections Manager J. Phillip Angle 

FISHES 

Curators Robert H. Gibbs, Jr. 

Ernest A. Lachner 
Victor G. Springer 
Stanley H. Weitzman 

Assistant Curator Richard P. Vari 

REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS 

Curators W. Ronald Heyer 

George R. Zug 

BIRDS 

Curators George E. Watson 

Richard L. Zusi 

Associate Curators Storrs L. Olson 

Paul Slud 

MAMMALS 

Curators Charles O. Handley, Jr. 

Richard W. Thorington, Jr. 

Associate Curator James G. Mead 

Assistant Curator Michael D. Carleton 

SECRETARY'S RESEARCH LABORATORY 

Research Assistant Gorman M. Bond 

Administrative Specialist Adele Y. Issa 

Executive Assistant (ICBP) Roger Pasquier 



* Deceased June 1980. 



Appendix 10. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries I 565 



RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS 

John W. Aldrich (Birds) Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds) 

John S. Ash (Birds) Joseph T. Marshall (Birds) 

Richard C. Banks (Birds) Roy W. McDiarmid (Reptiles, 

William Belton (Birds) Amphibians) 

Michael A. Bogan (Mammals) J. A. J. Meester (Mammals) 

James E. Bohlke (Fishes) Edgardo Mondolfi (Mammals) 

Robert L. Brownell (Mammals) Russell E. Mumford (Mammals) 

Howard W. Campbell (Reptiles, Ralph S. Palmer (Birds) 

Amphibians) William F. Perrin (Mammals) 

Daniel M. Cohen (Fishes) Allan R. Phillips (Birds) 

Bruce B. Collette (Fishes) Dioscoro S. Rabor (Mammals) 

Robert K. Enders (Mammals) Randall R. Reeves (Mammals) 

Carl H. Ernst (Reptiles, Amphibians) S. Dillon Ripley (Birds) 

Alan Feduccia (Birds) Brian Robbins (Mammals) 

John G. Frazier (Reptiles, Rudolf o Ruibal (Reptiles, 

Amphibians) Amphibians) 

Herbert Friedmann (Birds) William Schevill (Mammals) 

Jeffrey Froehlich (Mammals) David W. Steadman (Birds) 

Alfred L. Gardner (Mammals) Stephen G. Tilley (Reptiles, 

Richard Highton (Reptiles, Amphibians) 

Amphibians) Joseph P. Ward (Reptiles, 

George J. Jacobs (Reptiles, Amphibians) 

Amphibians) Richard Wassersug (Reptiles, 

Frances C. James (Birds) Amphibians) 

Clyde J. Jones (Mammals) John C. Weske (Birds) 

Warren B. King (Birds) Ralph M. Wetzel (Mammals) 

Gordon L. Kirkland (Mammals) Claudia P. Wilds (Birds) 

E. V. Komarek (Mammals) James D. Williams (Fishes) 

Irving Kornfield (Fishes) Don E. Wilson (Mammals) 

Handbook of North American Indians 

General Editor William C. Sturtevant 

Production Manager Diane Della-Eoggia 

Management Services Assistant Melvina Jackson 

Anthropologist Laura J. Greenberg 

Linguist R. H. Ives Goddard 

Librarian Lorraine H. Jacoby 

Smithsonian Oceano graphic Sorting Center 

Director Frank D. Ferrari 

Administrative Services Assistant Jackie Edwards 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK. 

Director Theodore H. Reed 

Assistant Director for Animal Programs John F. Eisenberg 

Assistant Director for Support Services . Gaetano G. Calise, Jr. 

Special Assistant to the Director Robert J. Hoage 

Chief, Office of Management Services . . Vincent J. Doyle 
Curators: 

Department of Herpetology Dale L. Marcellini 

Department of Mammalogy Edwin Gould 

Department of Ornithology (Acting) . Eugene S. Morton 

Registrar Judith Block 



566 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Scientist-in-Charge, 

Department of Zoological Research . . Devra G. Kleiman 

Scientific Staff Eugene S. Morton 

Katherine S. Ralls 
John C. Seidensticker 
Veterinarian-in-Charge, 

Department of Animal Health R. Mitchell Bush 

Assistant Veterinarian Donald L. Janssen 

Veterinarian Emeritus Clinton W. Gray 

Pathologist-in-Charge, 

Department of Pathology Richard J. Montali 

Research Associates: 
C. K. Hsu Sidney R. Jones John D. Strandberg 

George D. Imes Opendra Narayan John D. Toft, II 

Bernard Zook 
Curator-in-Charge, 

Department of Conservation Christen M. Wemmer 

Facility Manager John N. Williams 

Chief, Office of Education Judith White 

Chief, Office of Construction 

Management Vacant 

Chief, Office of Facilities Management . Emanuel Petrella 

Chief, Office of Graphics and Exhibits . . Robert E. Mulcahy 

Chief, Office of Police, Health & Safety . Samuel L. Middleton, Jr. 

Director, Friends of the National Zoo . . Sabin Robbins 

Associate in Ecology S. Dillon Ripley 

Collaborator Kenhelm W. Stott 

Research Associates and Affiliated Scientists 

Maxeen Biben Kenneth M. Green Walter Poduschka 

Carolyn Crockett Judith L. Hand John G. Robinson 

Jean Delacour Paul Leyhausen James K. Russell 

Wolfgang P. J. Dittus Susan Lumpkin Ranka Sekulic 

Richard Faust James R. Malcolm Gay Troth 

John G. Frazier, Jr. Nancy Muckenhirn Susan C. Wilson 

Shed L. Gish Edgardo Mondolfi 

RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY 

Director William H. Klein 

Assistant Director W. Shropshire, Jr. 

Agricultural Engineer John Sager 

Anthropologist Robert Stuckenrath 

Aquatic Ecologist Claire Buchanan 

Biochemists Ora Canaani 

Maurice Margulies 

Biologists Elisabeth Gantt 

Rebecca Hayes 

Geneticist Roy W. Harding, Jr. 

Physicist Bernard Goldberg 

Plant Physiologists Charles F. Cleland 

Gerald Deitzer 
Bert G. Drake 
John L. Edwards 
Rita Khanna 
Thomas Redlinger 
William O. Smith 
Bruce Whitaker 



Appendix 10. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries I 567 



SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 
(Including Harvard Members of the Center for Astrophysics) 

Director George B. Field 

Assistant Director John G. Gregory 



Eugene H. Avrett 
John A. Ball 
Barbara Bell 
John Black 
Bartley Cardon 
Nathaniel P. Carleton 
Alastair G. W. Cameron 
Frederic Chaffee 
Eric J. Chaisson 
Kelley Chance 
Steven Mark Christensen 
Halden Cohn 
Giuseppe Colombo 
Guy J. Consolmagno 
Eustratios Constantinides 
Allan F. Cook 
Marc Davis 
Robert Davis 
Alexander Dalgarno 
John P. Delvaille 
Bruce Draine 
Andrea K. Dupree 
Martin S. Elvis 
Giuseppina Fabbiano 
Daniel G. Fabricant 
Michael Fall 
Giovanni G. Fazio 
Edward L. Fireman 
Brian P. Flannery 
William R. Forman 
Fred A. Franklin 
Daryl E. Freeman 
Bruce Fryxell 
Edward M. Gaposchkin 
John C. Geary 
Reinhard Genzel 
Riccardo Giacconi 
Owen Gingerich 
Leo Goldberg 
Leon Golub 
Paul Gorenstein 
Richard E. Griffiths 



Jonathan E. Grindlay 
Mario Grossi 
Herbert Gursky 
Shadia Habbal 
F. R. Harnden, Jr. 
Lee W. Hartmann 
Timothy Heil 
J. Patrick Henry 
John P. Huchra 
Luigi G. Jacchia 
Christine Jones-Forman 
Paul Kalaghan 
Wolfgang Kalkofen 
Stephen M. Kent 
Kate Kirby-Docken 
Randall Knight 
Edgar Knobloch 
David Koch 
John L. Kohl 
Yoshihide Kozai 
Robert L. Kurucz 
David M. Latham 
David Layzer 
Myron Lecar 
Randolph H. Levine 
Alan P. Lightman 
Martha H. Liller 
William Liller 
A. Edward Lilley 
Richard London 
Brian G. Marsden 
Ursula B. Marvin 
Edward M. Mattison 
Alan Maxwell 
Brian McBreen 
Richard E. McCrosky 
James M. Moran 
Stephen S. Murray 
Peter Nisenson 
Robert W. Noyes 
Michael Oppenheimer 
Costas Papaliolios 



William H. Parkinson 
Joseph Patterson 
Michael R. Pearlman 
William H. Press 
Harrison E. Radford 
John C. Raymond 
Mark Reid 
Robert Rosner 
Micheline C. Roufosse 
George B. Rybicki 
John A. Rys 
Rudolph E. Schild 
Matthew Schneps 
Herbert W. Schnopper 
Ethan J. Schreier 
Daniel A. Schwartz 
Joseph Schwarz 
Zdenek Sekanina 
Frederick D. Seward 
Peter L. Smith 
Robert Stachnik 
William K. Stevens 
Harvey D. Tananbaum 
Paul O. Taylor 
Wesley A. Traub 
Wallace H. Tucker 
Giuseppe S. Vaiana 
Leon P. VanSpeybroeck 
Robert F. C. Vessot 
George A. Victor 
Trevor C. Weekes 
Steven Weinberg 
Heinz Weiser 
Fred L. Whipple 
Charles A. Whitney 
George L. Withbroe 
John A. Wood 
Frances W. Wright 
Kouichi Yoshino 
Fred Young 
Martin V. Zombeck 



SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 

Director Ira Rubinoff 

Acting Director Michael H. Robinson 

Acting Assistant Director Peter W. Glynn 

Special Assistant to Director Adela Gomez 

Deputy Special Assistant to Director . . . Elena Lombardo 



568 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Senior Scientists Martin H. Moynihan 

A. Stanley Rand 

Administrative Officer Frank Morris 

Superintendent, Barro Colorado Nature 

Monument Gilberto Ocana 

Facilities Manager Thomas R. Borges 

Librarian Alcira Mejia 

Head, Office of Conservation and 

Environmental Education Nicholas Smythe 

Educational Coordinator Georgina DeAlba 

Scientific Staff 

John Cubit D. Ross Robertson 

Robert L. Dressier Michael H. Robinson 

Mary Jane West Arcadio F. Rodaniche 

Eberhard David W. Roubik 

William Eberhard Roberta W. Rubinoff 

Peter W. Glynn Robert E. Silberglied 

Egbert Leigh, Jr. Alan P. Smith 

Olga F. Linares Neal G. Smith 

Harilaos Lessios Donald M. Windsor 

G. Gene Montgomery Hindrik Wolda 

Research Associates 

Annette Aiello Deborah Caldwell Hahn 

Humberto Alvarez Jane Lubchenco 

Robin Andrews Yael Lubin 

Carlos Arellano L. Ernst Mayr 

Charles F. Bennett, Jr. Bruce Menge 

Jose Ignacio Borrero Katherine Milton 

Gordon M. Burghardt Anthony Ranere 

Richard Cooke Tyson Roberts 

Reinaldo Diaz V. Barbara Robinson 

Kerry Ann Dressier Gordon B. Small 

Robin Foster W. John Smith 

Nathan Gale Henry Stockwell 

Pedro Galindo Alastair M. Stuart 

Carmen Glynn Paulo E. Vanzolini 

Jeffrey B. Graham Fritz Vollrath 



HISTORY AND ART 

Assistant Secretary Charles Blitzer 

Special Assistants Dean Anderson 

Susan Hamilton 

Administrative Officer Patricia DuVall 

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART 

New York (Administrative Office) 

Director William E. Woolfenden 

Assistant Director Vacant 

Washington (Processing Center) 

Senior Curator Garnett McCoy 

Administrative Officer Richard J. Nicastro 

Curator of Manuscripts Arthur Breton 

Associate Curator of Manuscripts Judith E. Throm 



[ cont. ] 



Appendix 10. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries I 569 



New York Area Office 

Area Director William McNaught 

Boston Area Office 

Area Director Robert Brown 

Detroit Area Office 

Area Director Dennis Barrie 

San Francisco Area Office 

Area Director Paul Karlstrom 

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM 

Director Lisa Taylor 

Assistant Director for Collections 

Management Christian Rohlfing 

Curator of Drawings and Prints Elaine Evans Dee 

Curator of Decorative Arts David Revere McFadden 

Curator of Textiles Milton Sonday 

Registrar Albina DeMeio 

Librarian Robert Kaufmann 

Conservator, Textile Lucy Commoner 

Conservator, Paper Konstanze Bachmann 

Exhibition Coordinator Dorothy Twining Globus 

Exhibition Designer Robin Parkinson 

Graphic Designer Heidi Humphrey 

Business Administrator Kurt Struver 

Chief of Security Luis Palau 

Buildings Manager Fred Catapano 

Programs Manager Mary Kerr 

Museum Shop Manager Railey Macey 

Public Relations Manager Isabelle Silverman 

Business Office Manager Elizabeth McKirdie 

Administrative Assistants to the Director Barbara V. Foss 

Peter M. Scherer 

Administrative Aide Judy Johns 

FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Director Thomas Lawton 

Assistant Director for Administration . . Richard Louie 

Administrative Officer Sarah L. Newmeyer 

Associate Curator, Chinese Art Shen C. Y. Fu 

Associate Curator, Japanese Art Yoshiaki Shimizu 

Associate Curator, Near Eastern Art . . . Esin Atil 

Assistant Curator, Japanese Art Ann Yonemura 

Translator Julia K. Murray 

Head Conservator, Technical Laboratory W. Thomas Chase III 

Conservators John Winter 

Lynda A. Zycherman 

Research Curator, Far Eastern Ceramics John A. Pope 

Research Assistant Josephine H. Knapp 

Librarian Priscilla P. Smith 

Assistant Librarian Chung-ming Lung 

Registrar Eleanor Radcliffe 

Registrarial Technician Harriet McWilliams 

Honorary Associates Richard Edwards 

Calvin French 



570 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 

Director Abram Lerner 

Deputy Director Stephen E. Weil 

Executive Officer Nancy F. Kirkpatrick 

Chief Curator Charles W. Millard 

Curator of Exhibitions Cynthia J. McCabe 

Curator for Archives Inez Garson 

Associate Curators Frank Gettings 

Phyllis Rosenzweig 

Judith Zilczer 

Assistant Curators Howard Fox 

Miranda McClintic 

Librarian Anna Brooke 

Conservators Laurence Hoffman 

Antoinette Owens 

Registrar Douglas Robinson 

Chief, Education Edward Lawson 

Writer/Editor Nancy Grubb 

Chief, Exhibits and Design Joseph Shannon 

Information Specialist Sidney Lawrence 

Photographer John Tennant 

Building Services Coordinator Frank Underwood 

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS 

Editor Nathan Reingold 

Associate Editor Arthur P. Molella 

Assistant Editor Marc Rothenberg 

Staff Historian Kathleen Waldenfels 

Research Assistant Joan F. Steiner 

Administrative Officer Beverly Lepley 

MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART 

Director Warren Robbins 

Assistant Director for Administration . . Jean Salan 

Buildings Manager Basil Arendse 

Curator of Collections Lydia Puccinelli 

Acting Registrar Lee Williams 

Conservator Rene Welfield 

Program/Education Director Amina Dickerson 

Academic Coordinator, Higher Education Edward Lifschitz 

Archives Assistants Bryna Freyer 

Dorothy Huete 

Librarian Janet Stanley 

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 

Director Joshua C. Taylor 

Assistant Director Harry Lowe 

Administrator H. Eugene Kelson 

Associate Administrator Charles J. Robertson 

Assistant to the Director Birute Vileisis 

Curator, 20th Century Painting and 

Sculpture Harry Rand 

Associate Curator, 20th Century 

Painting and Sculpture Virginia Mecklenburg 

Assistant Curator, Joseph Cornell 

Study Center Lynda Hartigan [ cont. ] 



Appendix 10. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries I 571 



Consultant, 20th Century Painting and 

Sculpture Adelyn Breeskin 

Curator, 18th and 19th Century 

Painting and Sculpture William H. Truettner 

Associate Curator, 18th and 19th 

Century Painting and Sculpture Robin Bolton-Smith 

Curator, Prints and Drawings Janet Flint 

Associate Curator, Prints and Drawings Martina Norelli 

Curator of Education Barbara Shissler 

Associate Curator of Education, 

Secondary Teresa C. Grana 

Assistant Curator of Education, 

Elementary Margery E. Gordon 

Director, Renwick Gallery Lloyd E. Herman 

Curator, Renwick Gallery Michael Monroe 

Associate Curator, Renwick Gallery .... Ellen Myette 

Curator of Research Lois M. Fink 

Chief, Office of Exhibition and Design . . David Keeler 
Assistant Chief, Office of Exhibition and 

Design Val Lewton 

Conservators Ann Creager 

Katherine Eirk 
Stefano Scafetta 

Editor, Office of Publications Carroll Clark 

Registrar W. Robert Johnston 

Assistant Registrar Thomas W. Bower 

Chief, Packing and Shipping Burgess A. Coleman 

Coordinator of Program Support Lois A. Bingham 

Chief, Office of Public Affairs Margery Byers 

Chief, Office of Visual Resources Eleanor Fink 

Assistant Chief, Office of Visual 

Resources Rachel Allen 

Photographers Martin A. Curry 

Michael Fisher 
Coordinator, Inventory of American 

Paintings Martha Andrews 

Coordinator, Smithsonian Art Index . . . Bess L. Hormats 

Librarian (Acting), NCFA/NPG Katherine Ratzenberger 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 

Director Roger G. Kennedy 

Special Assistant . . . . , William J. Harvey IV 

Deputy Director Douglas E. Evelyn 

Executive Officer Luis del Rio 

National Philatelic Collections 

Executive Director Robert G. Tillotson 

Associate Curator Reidar Norby 

National Numismatics Collections 

Historians Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli 

Elvira Clain-Stefanelli 

Research Associate Emery May Norweb 

Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research 

Historians James Hutchins 

Forrest C. Pogue 



572 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Office of Building Management 

Building Manager Lawrence A. Bush 

Assistant Building Manager William Sanford 

Division of Conservation 
Head Conservator J. Scott Odell 

Department of Exhibits 

Assistant Director for Exhibits Benjamin W. Lawless 

Chief, Exhibits Management Richard S. Virgo 

Acting Chief, Exhibits Design Benjamin W. Lawless 

Chief, Exhibits Production Walter N. Lewis 

Office of Public and Academic Programs 

Director Josiah Hatch 

Education Coordinator Alice Reno Malone 

Public Information Officer Geraldine E. Sanderson 

Office of Registrar 

Registrar Virginia Beets 

Assistant Registrar Martha Morris 

Department of Social and National History 

Chairman Claudia B. Kidwell 

Vice-Chairman Gary B. Kulik 

CERAMICS AND GLASS 

Assistant Curator Susan Myers 

Curators Emeritus Paul V. Gardner 

J. Jefferson Miller II 
C. Malcolm Watkins 

Collaborator Joan P. Watkins 

Fellow Hans Syz 

Research Associate Ivor Noel Hume 

COMMUNITY LIFE 

Curators Richard E. Ahlborn 

Carl H. Scheele 

COSTUME 

Curator Claudia B. Kidwell 

Acting Supervisor Ann Rothberg 

Curator Emeritus Anne W. Murray 

DOMESTIC LIFE 

Curators Anne C. Golovin 

Rodris C. Roth 

GRAPHIC ARTS 

Curator Elizabeth M. Harris 

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS 

Curators John T. Fesperman 

Cynthia A. Hoover 
Research Associate Mrs. Sheridan Germann 



Appendix 10. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries I 573 



POLITICAL HISTORY 

Curators Herbert R. Collins 

Margaret B. Klapthor 
Associate Curator Edith P. Mayo 

TEXTILES 

Curator Rita J. Adrosko 

Assistant Curator Gary B. Kulik 

Department of the History of Science and Technology 

Chairman Bernard S. Finn 

Vice-Chairman Robert C. Post 

Curators Emeritus Sami K. Hamarneh 

Susan F. Cannon 
Research Associates Derek J. De Solla Price 

Bern Dibner 

ELECTRICITY AND MODERN PHYSICS 

Curators Bernard S. Finn 

Paul Forman 

Historian Susan J. Douglas 

Research Associate Gerald F. J. Tyne 

EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES 

Curator John T. Schlebecker 

Associate Curators John N. Hoffman 

George T. Sharrer 
Research Associate Philip W. Bishop 

MATHEMATICS 

Curator Uta C. Merzbach 

MECHANISMS 

Curator Otto Mayr 

Research Associate Edwin A. Battison 

MEDICAL SCIENCES 

Curator Audrey B. Davis 

Assistant Curator Ramunas A. Kondratas 

MECHANICAL AND CIVIL ENGINEERING 

Curator Robert M. Vogel 

Research Associate Charles T. G. Looney 

MILITARY HISTORY 

Curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr. 

Associate Curator Donald E. Kloster 

Research Associate Anne S. K. Brown 

NAVAL HISTORY 

Curators Philip K. Lundeberg 

Harold D. Langley 
Research Associate Lee Houchins 

PHOTOGRAPHIC HISTORY 

Curator Eugene Ostroff 



574 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



PHYSICAL SCIENCES 

Curator Deborah J. Warner 

Associate Curator Jon B. Eklund 

Research Associate Arthur Frazier 

TRANSPORTATION 

Curators John H. White 

Robert C. Post 

Associate Curator Don H. Berkebile 

Research Associates Peter B. Bell 

Arthur D. Dubin 
Melvin H. Jackson 

SENIOR HISTORIANS OFFICE 

Senior Historian Brooke Hindle 

Senior Scientific Scholar Robert P. Multhauf 



NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 

Director Marvin S. Sadik 

Assistant Director Harold Francis Pfister 

Administrative Officer Barbara A. Hart 

Historian Marc Pachter 

Curator of Painting and Sculpture Robert G. Stewart 

Curator of Exhibitions Beverly J. Cox 

Associate Curators of Painting and 

Sculpture Monroe Fabian 

Ellen Miles 

Curator of Prints Wendy Wick 

Curator of Photographs William F. Stapp 

Curator of Education Kenneth Yellis 

Editor of Publications Frances S. Wein 

Chief, Design and Production Nello Marconi 

Keeper, Catalog of American Portraits . Mona Dearborn 
National Survey Coordinator, Catalog 

of American Portraits Richard K. Doud 

Editor of the Charles Willson Peale 

Papers and Historian of American 

Culture Lillian B. Miller 

Acting Librarian Katharine Ratzenberger 

Senior Conservator Felrath Hines 

Senior Photographer Eugene Mantie 

Registrar Suzanne Jenkins 

Public Affairs Officer Sandra Westin 



OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES 

Director Wilcomb E. Washburn 

Administrative Assistant Dorothy D. Blaska 

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS 

Director Rafph Rinzler 

Senior Folklorist Peter Seitel 

Ethnomusicologist Thomas Vennum 

Administrative Officer Betty Beuck [ cont. ] 



Appendix 10. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries I 575 



Program Coordinator Jeffrey LaRiche 

Folklorists Susan Kalcik 

Jack Santino 
Steve Zeitlin 

Designer Daphne Shuttleworth 

Archivist Richard Derbyshire 

RENWICK "CELEBRATION" EXHIBITION 

Exhibition Coordinator Elaine Eff 

Exhibition Assistant Kristi Miller 



MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

Assistant Secretary Paul N. Perrot 

Executive Assistant William N. Richards 

Special Assistant W. Donald Duckworth 

National Museum Act Coordinator .... Vacant 



CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY 

Director Robert M. Organ 

Supervisor (Archaeometry) Jacqueline S. Olin 

Supervisory Conservator Eleanor McMillan 

Supervisory Conservation-Scientist .... Timothy Padfield 

Administrative Officer Vernetta M. Williams 



OFFICE OF EXHIBITS CENTRAL 

Chief James A. Mahoney 

Assistant Chief John C. Widener 

Administrative Officer William M. Clark, Jr. 

Exhibits Specialist Joseph W. Saunders 

Chief Exhibits Editor Linda S. DuBro 

Chief of Production John C. Widener 

Supervisor, Exhibits Specialist Kenneth R. Clevenger 

Supervisor, Exhibits Specialist 

(Modelmaker) Walter G. Sorrell 



OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE 

Director James R. Buckler 

Assistant Director John W. Monday 

Chief of Education Division Lauranne C. Nash 

Foreman, Grounds Management Division Kenneth Hawkins 

Foreman, Greenhouse Nursery Division August A. Dietz IV 

Exhibits Design Specialist Kathryn L. Meehan 



OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES 

Director Kennedy B. Schmertz 

Deputy Director Richard T. Conroy 

Program Officer LeRoy Makepeace 

International Liaison Specialist Saundra Tilghman-Thomas 



576 / Smithsonian Year 1980 






OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

Program Manager Jane R. Glaser 

Administrative Assistant Gwendolyn G. Baker 

Training Program Coordinator Nancy L. Welch 

Native American Museum Training 

Coordinator James A. Hanson 

Conservation Information Program 

Coordinator Elena Borowski 

T.V. Production Specialists Pete Erikson 

Eleanor Crow 

Program Assistant Janet Brennan 

Museum Evaluator Vacancy 

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR 

Registrar Philip Leslie 

Assistant Registrar Mary W. Lund 

Management Analyst Melva S. Elmer 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES 

Archivist Richard H. Lytle 

Deputy Archivist William A. Deiss 

Associate Archivists Alan L. Bain 

Richard V. Szary 
Assistant Archivists William R. Massa, Jr. 

James A. Steed 

Historian Pamela M. Henson 

Supervisory Archives Technician Norwood N. Biggs 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 

Director Robert M. Maloy 

Special Assistants Silvio Bedini 

Jack Goodwin 

Systems Assistant Stephen Toney 

Chief, Office of Administrative Services Anthony J. Kohlrus 

Administrative Officer Mary C. Quinn 

Assistant Director, Bibliographic 

Systems Vija L. Karklins 

Chief, Acquisitions Services . . . Mildred D. Raitt 

Order Librarian William B. Neff 

Gift and Exchange Librarian Sharon H. Sweeting 

Chief, Bibliographic Support Victoria Avera 

Chief, Indexing Services Mary Jane H. Linn 

Senior Cataloger Bertha S. Sohn 

Chief, Binding Services Mary J. Pierce 

Conservator, Book Conservation 

Laboratory Johannes H. Hyltoft 

Special Projects Librarian Neal T. Turtell 

Assistant Director, Reader Services .... Jean C. Smith 

Chief, Central Information Services .... Jack F. Marquardt 
Chief Librarian, National Museum of 

Natural History Sylvia Churgin 

Anthropology Librarian Janette K. Saquet 

Botany Librarian Ruth F. Schallert 



[ cont. ] 



Appendix 10. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries I 577 



Entomology Librarian Margaret Smith 

Museum Support Center Librarian . . . Karen Preslock 
Chief Librarian, National Air and Space 

Museum Catherine C. Scott 

Chief Librarian, Smithsonian 

Astrophysical Observatory Joyce M. Rey 

Chief Librarian, National Zoological 

Park/Radiation Biology Laboratory/ 

Chesapeake Bay Center Mary C. Gray 

Zoo Librarian Kay Kenyon 

Chief Librarian, Smithsonian Tropical 

Research Institute Alcira A. Mejia 

Chief Librarian, National Museum of 

History and Technology Frank A. Pietropaoli 

Assistant Librarians Charles G. Berger 

Barbara F. Veloz 

Chief Librarian, Special Collections .... Ellen B. Wells 

Assistant Librarian Mary Rosenfeld 

Chief Librarian, Cooper-Hewitt Museum Robert C. Kaufmann 
Chief Librarian, Museum Reference 

Center Rhoda Ratner 

Chief Librarian, Museum of African Art Janet L. Stanley 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING 
EXHIBITION SERVICE 

Director Peggy Loar 

Publications Officer Andrea Stevens 

Public Affairs Officer Eileen Harakal 

Administrative Officer Antonio Diez 

Registrar Emily Eyer 

International Program Officer Eileen Rose 

Exhibitions Coordinators Deborah Dawson 

Donald McClelland 

General Exhibitions Program Officer . . . Anne R. Gossett 

Exhibition Coordinators Janice Driesbach 

Elizabeth Driscoll 

Betty Teller 
American Studies Program Exhibition 

Coordinators Martha Cappelletti 

Nancy Davis 

Education Specialist, Education Program Marjorie Share 

Education Coordinator Hedy Ehrlich 



PUBLIC SERVICE 

Assistant Secretary Julian T. Euell 

Executive Assistant Vincent L. MacDonnell 

Administrative Officer Jewell S. Dulaney 

Publications Coordinator Glen B. Ruh 

ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM 

Director John R. Kinard 

Administrative Officer Audrey Archer 

Historian Louise D. Hutchinson 

Exhibits Program Manager Victor Govier 



578 I Smithsonian Year 1980 



Supervisory Visual Information 

Specialist Sharon Reinckens 

Supervisory Exhibits Specialist James Mayo 

Exhibits Specialist Omar Wynn 

Photographer Christopher Capilongo 

Education Specialist Zora Martin-Felton 

DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS 

Director James R. Morris 

Research Specialist Sharyn Huriaux Reitz 

Business Manager Joe Reed 

Smithsonian Central Box Office Manager Ann Norton 
Director, Jazz and American Culture 

Programs Martin Williams 

Director, Chamber Music Programs .... James M. Weaver 
Director, Program in Black American 

Culture Bernice Johnson Reagon 

Director, Museum Programs Shirley Cherkasky 

Director, Education Services Cynthia A. Hightower 

Director, Marketing and 

Communications Sally Roffman 

Technical Director Harold A. Closter 

Public Affairs Officer Manuel J. Melendez 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 

Director John E. Estes 

OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION 

Education Program Coordinator David Estabrook 

Special Education Coordinator Janice Majewski 

Education Specialist Ann Bay 

Program Assistant Evelyn Reese 

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS 

Director Wilton S. Dillon 

Associate Directors Dorothy Richardson 

Carla M. Borden 

OFFICE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

Director Nazaret Cherkezian 

Senior Telecommunications Specialist . . William C. Grayson* 

Telecommunications Specialist Paul B. Johnson 

Radio Production Specialist Ann M. Carroll 

Production Coordinator Lawrence E. Kline, Jr. 

SMITHSONIAN EXPOSITION BOOKS 

Acting Director Glen B. Ruh 

Senior Editor Vacant 

Business Manager Thomas A. Hoffman 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 

Director Felix C. Lowe 

Director Emeritus Edward F. Rivinus 

Assistant Director and Managing Editor, 

General Publications Maureen R. Jacoby [ cont. ] 



Deceased April 15, 1980. 



Appendix 10. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries I 579 



Assistant Director and Managing Editor, 

Series Albert L. Ruffin, Jr. 

Assistant to the Director and 

Administrative Officer Georgiana Hahn 

Production Manager Lawrence J. Long 

Design Manager Janet Stratton 

Distribution Manager Frederick H. MacVicar 

SMITHSONIAN MAGAZINE 

Editor and Publisher (on leave) Edward K. Thompson 

Publisher (acting) Joseph J. Bonsignore 

Managing Editor Donald B. Moser 

Executive Editor Ralph Backlund 

Members, Board of Editors: 

Caroline Despard Paul Trachtman 

Grayce P. Northcross John P. Wiley, Jr. 

Edwards Park Richard L. Williams 
Bennett Schiff 

Associate Publisher, Advertising Thomas H. Black 

Associate Publisher, Circulation Anne Keating 

Production Nannie Shanahan 

Business Carey O. Randall 

VISITOR INFORMATION AND ASSOCIATES' 
RECEPTION CENTER 

Director Mary Grace Potter 

Deputy Director Carolyn Clampitt 

Program Editor Maria Heasly 

Program Manager, Staff Volunteer 

Services Sally Covel 

Manager, Public Inquiry Mail Ann Perper 

Coordinator, Group Orientation Program Jennifer Williams 

Program Coordinator, Telephone Gretchen Latimer 

Office Manager Bee Gee Livsey 

Assistant Program Coordinator, 

Weekends Lois Brown 



MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT 

Director James McK. Symington 

OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT 

Deputy Director E. Jeffrey Stann 

Associate Development Officer Arthur W. Gardner 

NATIONAL ASSOCIATE PROGRAM 
Director Robert H. Angle 

Regional Events 

Program Manager Charlene James 

Program Assistants Amy Kotkin 

MaryBeth Mullen 



580 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Contributing Membership 
Program Manager Jessie Brinkley 

t 

Selected Studies 

Program Manager Nancy Starr 

Program Assistant Abby Yochelson 

Associates Travel 

Program Manager ; Jacqueline Austin 

Deputy Program Manager Prudence Clendenning 

Foreign Study Tour Program Manager . . Barbara Tuceling 

RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM 

Director Janet W. Solinger 

Associate Director Michael C. Alin 

Administrative Officer Eugene S. Szopa 

Program Coordinators Paul J. Edelson 

Edward P. Gallagher 
Moya B. King 
Christine Parker 

Associate Program Coordinators Diane Lynn Arkin 

Natalia Krawec Hanks 
Alice Dana Spencer 

Public Information Specialist Helen A. Marvel 

Art Director Margaret V. Lee 

Membership Coordinator Jeanne B. George 

Registration Manager Virginia M. Cronin 

Assistant Registration Manager Xenia Sorokin Arnelle 

Volunteer Coordinator Elinor K. Emlet 



ADMINISTRATION 



Assistant Secretary John F. Jameson 

Director, Agenda Office Robert L. Farrell 

Contracting Officer, Contracts Office . . . Elbridge O. Hurlbut 

Director, Management Analysis Office . . John G. Motheral 

Director, Office of Computer Services . . Stanley A. Kovy 

Director, Office of Equal Opportunity . . Will Douglas, Jr. 

Director, Office of Facilities Services . . . Tom L. Peyton, Jr. 

Director, Office of Design and 

Construction Phillip K. Reiss 

Director, Office of Plant Services Kenneth E. Shaw 

Director, Office of Protection Services Robert B. Burke, Jr. 
Director, Office of Personnel 

Administration Howard Toy 

Director, Office of Printing and 

Photographic Services James H. Wallace, Jr. 

Director, Office of Programming and 

Budget Jon E. Yellin 

Director, Office of Supply Services Harry P. Barton 

Director, Travel Services Office Ann H. Krafthofer 



[ cont. ] 



Appendix 10. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries I 581 



FACILITIES SERVICES 

Director Tom L. Peyton, Jr. 

Director, Design and Construction .... Phillip K. Reiss 

Director, Plant Services Kenneth E. Shaw 

Director, Protection Services Robert B. Burke, Jr. 

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES 

Treasurer Christian C. Hohenlohe 

Assistant to the Treasurer John R. Clarke 

Financial Analyst Frances C. Rooney 

Director, Accounting Office Allen S. Goff 

Assistant Director, Accounting Services William B. Henegan 

Assistant Director, Financial Systems . . John P. Howser 
Director, Office of Grants and Risk 

Management Phillip H. Babcock 

Assistant Director, Grants Management Rick R. Johnson 

Assistant Director, Risk Management . . Alice R. Bryan 
Director, Investment Accounting 

Division Ernest A. Berger* 

Director, Business Management Office . . Richard O. Griesel 

Controller, Business Management Office Ohlen J. Boyd 

Director, Smithsonian Museum Shops . . James J. Chmelik 

Director, Belmont Conference Center . . . Mary B. Force 

Director, Mail Order Division David H. Ehrlich 



OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL 

General Counsel Peter G. Powers 

Associate General Counsel Alan D. Ullberg 

Assistant General Counsels: 

Robert A. Dierker George S. Robinson Sharon A. White 

Marie C. Malaro Marsha S. Shaines James I. Wilson 

Suzanne D. Murphy 



OFFICE OF COORDINATOR OF PUBLIC INFORMATION 

Coordinator Lawrence Taylor 

Administrative Officer Eileen Hall 

Office of Public Affairs 

Director Alvin Rosenfeld 

Special Assistant Richard Friedman 

Science Writer Madeleine Jacobs 

Public Information Specialists David Maxfield 

Linda St. Thomas 

Publications Officer Susan Bliss 

Writer-Editors Mary Combs 

Johnnie Douthis 
Katheryn Lindeman 
Lilas Wiltshire 



* Retired August 1980. 



582 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Office of Congressional Liaison 

Special Assistant to the Secretary Margaret Hird 

Congressional Liaison Assistant Carey Wilkins 

Office of Special Events 

Director Barbara Spraggins* 

Assistant Director Marilyn Hughes 



WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER 
FOR SCHOLARS 

Director James H. Billington 

Deputy Director Prosser Gifford 

Editor Peter Braestrup 

Librarian Zdenek V. David 

Publications Officer Elizabeth Dixon 

Assistant Director for Administration . . William M. Dunn 

Secretary, Kennan Institute Abbott Gleason 

Coordinator, East Asia Program Harry Harding 

Secretary, American Society and Politics 

Program Michael J. Lacey 

Secretary, Latin American Program .... Abraham F. Lowenthal 

Assistant Director for Development .... George Liston Seay 

Assistant Director for Fellowships Ann Sheffield 

Executive Assistant to the Director Mernie Wright Weathers 

Secretary, International Security Studies 

Program Samuel F. Wells, Jr. 



JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 

Honorary Chairmen Mrs. Jimmy Carter 

Mrs. Gerald R. Ford 
Mrs. Richard M. Nixon 
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson 
Mrs. Aristotle Onassis 
Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower** 
Chairman of the Board of Trustees .... Roger L. Stevens 

Vice Chairmen Charles H. Percy 

Henry Strong 

Secretary Frank N. Ikard 

Assistant Secretary Charles Woolard 

Treasurer W. Jarvis Moody 

Assistant Treasurers James F. Rogers 

William H. Ryland 
Henry Strong 

General Counsel Harry C. McPherson, Jr. 

Associate Counsel William W. Becker 

Artistic Director Marta Istomin [ cont. ] 



* The former Director of Special Events, Jeanette Gladstone, was deceased 
January 4, 1980. Barbara Spraggins was appointed to the position July 13, 1980. 

** Deceased November 1, 1979. 



Appendix 10. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries I 583 



Director of Operations Thomas R. Kendrick 

Deputy Director of Operations Geraldine M. Otremba 

General Manager of Theaters Judith O'Dea Morr 

Associate Manager of Theaters Richard H. Owens 

Controller Clifton B. Jeter 

Director of Development Jillian H. Poole 

Director of Building Services Edward G. Schessler 

Budget Officer Verda Welch 

Director of Education Jack W. Kukuk 

Marketing Manager John H. McAuliffe 

Director of Public Relations Leo Sullivan 

Manager of Sales Carl A. Matte 

Minority Affairs Consultant Archie L. Buffkins 

Management Systems Consultant Alexander Morr 



NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

President John R. Stevenson 

Vice President Carlisle H. Humelsine 

Director J. Carter Brown 

Assistant Director Charles P. Parkhurst 

Dean, Center for Advanced Study in 

the Visual Arts Henry A. Millon 

Treasurer Robert C. Goetz 

Administrator Joseph G. English 

Secretary-General Counsel Carroll J. Cavanagh 

Construction Manager Hurley F. Offenbacher 

Assistant to the Director, Music Richard Bales 

Assistant to the Director, Public 

Information Katherine Warwick 

Assistant to the Director, Special Events Carol M. Fox 

Planning Consultant David W. Scott 

Curator of American Painting John H. Wilmerding 

Chief Librarian J. M. Edelstein 

Chief, Education Department Margaret I. Bouton 

Head, Extension Program Development . Ruth R. Perlin 

Head, Art Information Service Elise V. H. Ferber 

Editor Theodore S. Amussen 

Chief, Photographic Laboratory William J. Sumits 

Curator of Photographic Archives Ruth Rowe Philbrick 

Senior Conservator Victor C. B. Covey 

Head, Exhibitions and Loans Jack C. Spinx 

Head, Department of Design and 

Installation Gaillard F. Ravenel 

Registrar Peter Davidock, Jr. 

Curator of Early Italian and Tuscan 

Painting David A. Brown 

Curator of Graphic Arts Andrew C. Robison, Jr. 

Curator of French Painting David E. Rust 

Curator of Sculpture Douglas Lewis, Jr. 

Curator of Twentieth-Century Art E. A. Carmean, Jr. 

Curator of Northern and Later Italian 

Painting Sheldon Grossman 

Curator of Northern European Painting . John O. Hand 

Curator of Dutch Painting Arthur K. Wheelock 



584 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



Curator of Spanish Painting Anna Voris 

Assistant Dean, Center for Advanced 

Study in the Visual Arts Marianna Shreve Simpson 

Assistant Administrator George W. Riggs 

Associate Secretary-General Counsel . . . Elizabeth A. Croog 

Assistant Secretary Kathryn K. Bartfield 

Personnel Officer Michael B. Bloom 



READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC. 

President Ruth P. Graves 

Executive Assistant Nancy J. Lewis 

Deputy National Director Arnold W. Baker 

Director of Development Don E. Walther 

Director of Field Services Carolyn Gunn Thome 

Director of Finance and Administration . Christina D. Mead 

Director of Publications Kristine S. Wilcox 

Director, Resource Coordination and 

Support Services Barbara B. Atkinson 

Resource Coordination and Support 

Services Officer Ryszard A. Obuchowicz 

Communications Control Coordinator . . Dewan R. Vines 

Regional Program Coordinators Curtis L. Brown 

Denise Bulluck 
Jessie L. Lacy 
Barbara Melnicove 

Subcontract Officer Peter J. Shaw 

Finance Manager Donna M. Wagley 

Assistant Finance Manager John A. Crance 

Invoice Coordinator Christine K. Moore 

Office Coordinator Hermine Henry 

Data Retrieval Manager Jill C. Gaines 

Manager, Supplies and Materials Calvin L. McFadden 



SMITHSONIAN SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE, INC 

President David F. Hersey 

Vice President, Scientific Affairs Division Donald A. Elliott 

Vice President, Data Processing Division Martin Snyderman 
Special Assistant to the President 

and Treasurer Thomas P. Bold, Jr. 

Assistant Treasurer and Secretary Evelyn M. Roll 

Marketing Manager Vacant 

CURRENT CANCER RESEARCH PROJECT ANALYSIS CENTER 

Director Donald A. Elliott 

Deputy Director Lily Ayad 

MEDICAL, BEHAVIORAL AND SOCIAL SCIENCES DIVISION 

Director Donald A. Elliott 

Deputy Director Charlotte M. Damron 

Chief, Medical Sciences Branch Charlotte M. Damron 

Chief, Behavioral Sciences Branch Rhoda Goldman 

Chief, Social Sciences Branch Ann Riordan 



Appendix 10. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries I 585 



NATURAL SCIENCES AND ENGINEERING DIVISION 

Acting Director Donald A. Elliott 

Deputy Director Samuel Liebman 

Chief, Chemistry Branch Samuel Liebman 

Chief, Agricultural Sciences Branch .... William T. Carlson 

Chief, Biological Sciences Branch Vacant 

Chief, Materials and Engineering Branch William H. Payne 
Chief, Physics, Mathematics and 

Electronics Branch Robert Summers 

Acting Chief, Earth Sciences Branch .... Chalmer G. Dunbar 

DATA PROCESSING DIVISION 

Director Martin Snyderman 

Deputy Director Bernard L. Hunt 

Manager, Systems Development Branch Bernard L. Hunt 

Manager, Input Services Branch Jack Devore 

Manager, Programming and Reports 

Services Branch Robert A Kline 

Manager, Computer Operations Branch . Paul Gallucci 



586 / Smithsonian Year 1980 



