\ 







^^1. V? 







♦^ 



# 



I < 



rr. f 



ithsonian 
Institution 





Smithsonian Year 




Annual Repoil: for the 



Snnithsonian Institution 



for the Year Ended 



Septennber 30, 1998 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 
Washington, D.C. ■ 1999 



Cover: Two male one-inch-long 
blennies, Emblemaria pandionis, 
fight over territory from their 
burrows in algae-covered pieces 
of coral rubble at the National Mu- 
seum of Natural History's marine 
laboratory on the island of Carrie 
Bow Cay, off Belize. Studies of the 
behavioral ecology of this and many 
other species are helping scientists 
to understand the competitive utiliza- 
tion of space and other resources 
by organisms in complex coral reef 
ecosystems. (Photograph by 
Carl C. Hansen) 

Frontispiece: This powerful self-por- 
trait from 1917 by Kohno Michisei 
(1895-1950), an influential member of 
Japan's third generation of pro- 
gressive Western-style artists, is 
modeled on a self-portrait by 
Albrecht Durer painted in 1500. One 
of the definitive Japanese works of 
the early 20th century, it was a gift to 
the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery from 
the artist's son Shuntatsu Kohno 
and the Kohno family in memory of 
their father on the occasion of the 
museum's 10th anniversary. 



Title page: Scientists at the National 
IVIuseum of Natural History's marine 
field station on the island of Carrie 
Bow Cay, off Belize, study the biodi- 
versity of complex coral reef eco- 
systems. Belize's reef is the largest 
barrier reef in the western hemi- 
sphere, offering a relatively undis- 
turbed, environmentally healthy 
"laboratory" for learning about the 
interrelationships among coral reef 
organisms in their natural environ- 
ment. (Photograph by Carl C. 
Hansen) 

Back cover: Research by Dr Judith 
Zilczer, curator of paintings at the 
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture 
Garden, revealed that Willem de 
Kooning (American, b. The Nether- 
lands, 1904-97) created this oil paint- 
ing on paper immediately upon 
learning of the assassination of 
John F. Kennedy. As a result of that 
discovery, the subtitle {John F. 
Kennedy) was added to the title 
Reclining Man, and the painting was 
assigned a new, earlier date of 1963. 



CONTENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 6 
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 9 
REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 19 
REPORT OF THE PROVOST 23 



MUSEUMS AND RESEARCH INSTITUTES 



Anacostia Museum and Center 

for African American History 

and Culture 24 
Archives of American Art 25 
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery 27 
Center for Folklife Programs and 

Cultural Studies 28 
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design 

Museum 29 
Freer Gallery of Art 30 
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture 

Garden 32 



National Air and Space Museum 
National Museum of African Art 
National Museum of American 

Art 37 
National Museum of American 

History 38 
National Museum of the 

American Indian 39 
National Museum of Natural 

History 40 
National Portrait Gallery 42 
National Postal Museum 43 



34 National Zoological Park 44 
35 Smithsonian Astrophysical 

Observatory 45 
Smithsonian Center for Latino 

Initiatives 46 
Smithsonian Center for Materials 

Research and Education 47 
Smithsonian Environmental 

Research Center 48 
Smithsonian Tropical Research 

Institute 49 



EDUCATION, MUSEUM, AND SCHOLARLY SERVICES 



REPORT OF THE UNDER SECRETARY 6i 
DEVELOPMENT AND MEMBERSHIP 71 
AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS 89 

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts 89 

National Gallery of Art 90 

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. 91 

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars 92 



FINANCIAL REPORT 93 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of 
Congress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of 
the will of James Smithson of England, who in 1826 
bequeathed his property to the United States of 
America "to found at Washington, under the name 
of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for 
the increase and diffusion of knowledge among 
men." After receiving the property and accepting the 
trust. Congress vested responsibility for administer- 
ing the trust in the Smithsonian Board of Regents. 

BOARD OF REGENTS AND 
SECRETARY 

September 30, 1998 

Board of Regents 

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the 

United States, Chancellor, ex officio 
Albert Gore Jr., Vice-President of the 

United States, ex officio 
Thad Cochran, Senator from Mississippi 
Bill Frist, Senator from Tennessee 
Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York 
Sam Johnson, Representative from Texas 
Bob Livingston, Representative from 

Louisiana 
Esteban E. Torres, Representative from 

California 
Howard H. Baker Jr., Citizen of the District 

of Columbia 
Barber B. Conable Jr., Citizen of New York 
Louis V. Gerstner Jr., Citizen of Connecticut 
Hanna H. Gray, Citizen of Illinois 
Anne d'Harnoncourt, Citizen of 

Pennsylvania 
Manuel L. Ibanez, Citizen of Texas 
Homer A. Neal, Citizen of Michigan 
Frank A. Shrontz, Citizen of Washington 
Wesley S. Williams Jr., Citizen of the District 

of Columbia 



The Secretary 

1. Michael Heyman, Secretary 
Constance Berry Newman, Under Secretary 
J. Dennis O'Connor, Provost 
Thomas D. Blair, Inspector General 
Robert V. Hanle, Executive Director for 

Development 
Donald L. Hardy, Director of Government 

Relations 
James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to 

the Secretary 
John E. Huerta, General Counsel 
David J. Umansky, Director of 

Communications 
L. Carole Wharton, Director of the Office of 

Planning, Management, and Budget 



SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL 
BOARD 

September 30, 1998 

Mrs. Jean B. Mahoney, Chair 

The Hon. Frank A. Weil, Vice-Chair 

Current Members 

The Hon. Max N. Berry 
Mrs. Laura Lee Blanton 
Mrs. Carolyn S. Blount 
Mrs. Jane C. Bradley 
Mr. Stephen F. Brauer 
The Hon. Henry E. Catto 
Mr. Peter R. Coneway 
Mr. Thomas E. Congdon 
Mr. Frank Arthur Daniels 
Mr. Archie W. Dunham 
Dr. Sylvia A. Earle 
Mrs. Jane B. Eisner 
Mrs. Patricia Frost 
Ms. Nely Galan 
Mr. Bert Getz 
Mr. Stephen Hamblett 
Mr. Paul Hertelendy 
Mr. S. Roger Horchow 
Mr. Robert L. James 
Mrs. Dona Kendall 



Mrs. Mary T Kinnear 

Mrs. Marie L. Knowles 

The Hon. Marc E. Leland 

Mr. Donald G. Lubin 

Mrs. Elizabeth S. MacMillan 

Mr. John D. Macomber 

Mrs. Holly Madigan 

Mr. Frank N. Magid 

Mrs. Millicent Maillard, ex officio 

Mrs. Adrienne B. Mars 

Mr. Michael McBride 

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy 

Mr. Kenneth B. Miller 

The Hon. Norman Y. Mineta 

Mr. Thomas D. Mullins 

Mr. John M. Nelson 

Mrs. Joan Noto 

Mr. Heinz C. Prechter 

Mrs. Carol Price 

Baron Eric de Rothschild 

Mr. A. R. "Tony" Sanchez 

Mr. David M. Silfen 

The Hon. Alan K. Simpson 

Ms. Kathleen D. Smith 

Mr. Kenneth L. Smith 

Mr. Clemmie Dixon Spangler 

Mr. Kelso Sutton 

Mrs. Nancy Brown Wellin 

Mr. Anthony Welters 

Mr. Daniel W. Yohannes 

Honorary Members 

Mr. Robert McC. Adams 
Mr. William S. Anderson 
Mr. Richard P. Cooley 
Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III 
Mr. Charles D. Dickey Jr. 
Mr. Alfred C.Glassell Jr. 
The Hon. George C. McGhee 
Justice Sandra D. O'Connor 
Mr. S. Dillon Ripley 
Mr. Wilbur L. Ross Jr. 
Mr. Lloyd G. Schermer 
Mrs. Gay F. Wray 



Smithsonian Institution 

Board of Regents 



The Secretary 



Inspector 
General 



Secretariat 



General 
Counsel 



Government 
Relations 



The Under 
Secretary 



Communications 

— Public Affairs 

— Visitor Information 
and Associates' 
Reception Center 



Special Events 

and 

Conference 

Services 



Operations Directorate 

Administration 

Equal Employment and Minority 

Affairs 
Human Resources 
Ombudsman 

Facilities 

Environmental Management and 

Safety 
Physical Plant 
Protection Services 

Finance 

Comptroller 
Contracting 
Treasurer 

Information Teclinology 

Imaging, Printing and Photographic 

Services 
Information Technology 



Business Advancement 
Directorate 

Smithsonian Associates 
Smithsonian Businesses 

—Retail 

— Concessions 

— Product Development and 
Licensing 

— Smithsonian Press/Productions 
Smithsonian Magazine 



Planning, 

Management, 

and Budget 



Membership 

and 
Development 



The 
Provost 



Under Separate 
Boards of Trustees 

John F. Kennedy 

Center for the 

Performing Arts 

National Gallery 
of Art 

Woodrow Wilson 

International Center 

for Scholars 



Museums and Research 
Institutes 



Education, Museum, and 
Scholarly Services 



Anacostia Museum and Center for 

African American History 

and Culture 
Archives of American Art 
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery/ 

Freer Gallery of Art 
Center for Folklife Programs and 

Cultural Studies 
Cooper-Hewitt, National 

Design Museum 
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture 

Garden 
National Air and Space Museum 
National Museum of African Art 
National Museum of American Art 

— Renwick Gallery 
National Museum of American 

History 
National Museum of the 

American Indian 
National Museum of Natural History 

— Museum Support Center 
National Portrait Gallery 
National Postal Museum 
National Zoological Park 
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 
Smithsonian Center for Latino Initiatives 
Smithsonian Center for Materials Research 

and Education 
Smithsonian Environmental 

Research ("enter 
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute 



Center for Museum Studies 
Exhibits Central 
Fellowships and Grants 
International Relations 
National Science Resources Center 
Program for Asian Pacific American 

Studies 
Smithsonian Institution Archives 
Smithsonian Institution Libraries 
Smithsonian Institution Traveling 

Exhibition Ser\ice 
Smithsonian Office of Education 
Sponsored Projects 

Other Support Ser\ices: 
Accessibility Program 
Institutional Studies 
Scientific Diving Program 



A COMMUNITY OF DISCOVERERS 



STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 



I. MICHAEL HEYMAN 




Secretary I. Michael Heyman 
(Photograph by Richard W. Strauss) 



The National Museum of Natural 
History's Declining Amphibian 
Populations Task Force, chaired by 
vertebrate zoologist Ron Heyer, is 
Investigating losses of amphibians 
from habitats as diverse as the 
Sierra Nevada mountains and the 
Amazon Basin, home of this Bolivl.-in 
tree frog. (Photograph by Chip Ckirk) 



A few years ago, a number of scholars at the Smithsonian convened a meeting at the Na- 
tional Zoo that they titled "What About Increase?" They were concerned that the research 
function of the Smithsonian had become the hidden part of the Institution's dual mission 
to promote "the increase and diffusion of knowledge." 

It is not, of course, surprising that most Americans think of the Smithsonian principally 
in terms of our museums and their exhibitions and programs. They are the public face of 
the Institution and represent our vital commitment to education. But there is another 
Smithsonian — the Smithsonian of research institutes in Massachusetts, Panama, and 
Maryland, of field expeditions throughout the world, of scholarly investigations into van- 
ishing technologies, historical traditions, and artistic expression. It is that Smithsonian, 
committed to expanding the boundaries of knowledge, that we celebrate here. 

At the time James Smithson made his generous and mysterious bequest to the people of 
the United States in the 1820s, America was far from the research giant it has become in 
our century. While we will never know Smithson's exact intentions for the new institu- 
tion he imagined, the Smithsonian's first Secretary, Joseph Henry, argued that since 
Smithson had himself been a scientist (with more than 200 scientific papers to his name), 
it must have been his intention to found in the New World "an organization which 
should promote original scientific researches." Henry, known for his experiments with 
electromagnetism, was in the vanguard of a rising generation of American scientists and 
saw in Smithson's bequest an opportunity to create, in the unlikely precincts of the capi- 
tal city, a place devoted to pure research: in his words, a "college of discoverers." 

So devoted was Henry to his vision that he downplayed the potential for public educa- 
tion in the use of Smithson's funds. The notion of a national museum left him cold, and 
even the construction of a great building on what is now the National Mall struck him as 
a diversion of monies more usefully spent in the support of investigations in all branches 
of knowledge and the dissemination of findings in publications and other forms of schol- 
arly exchange. 

Happily for us today, Henry was not entirely able to stop the Smithsonian from under- 
taking responsibility for the care of national collections, nor, for that matter, could he 
stop the creation of a tradition of great buildings on the Mall to present them. His endur- 
ing legacy to the Smithsonian, though, was to underscore and establish the importance of 
a research agenda of the highest standard. 

Within two years of the Institution's founding in 1846, Henry had already demon- 
strated the potential of his stubborn vision. At a time when only two other U.S. institu- 
tions sponsored the publication of research results, he initiated the series Smithsonian 
Contributions to Knowledge, which continues to the present day as the Smithsonian 
Contributions and Studies Series Program. The first volume, Ancient Monuments of the Mis- 
sissippi, a study of Indian mounds, has been described as a "milestone in the development 
of American anthropology." Henry also saw the Smitlisonian's potential as a catalyst and 
coordinator of scientific inquiry throughout the nation and tlie world. Using the hot now 
technology of the tclegrapii, he set up a network of iumdrcds of observers to ciuut 



9 



•*p~ ■ --v* 




Smithsonian research in the 
emerging field of anthropology 
began when John Wesley Powell, 
pioneering surveyor of the Rocky 
Mountain region, was named 
first director of what is now the 
Department of Anthropology at the 
National Museum of Natural History 
in 1879. This portrait of Powell with 
Tau-gu (Paiute) is in the National 
Anthropological Archives. 



weather conditions throughout 
the United States and as far away 
as South America. This innovation 
created a base for the new science 
of meteorology, grounded in the 
accumulation of long-range data, 
and led to the establishment of the 
U.S. Weather Bureau in 1869. 

Henry's interest in the emerging 
field we now call anthropology 
bore spectacular fruit when he per- 
suaded John Wesley Powell, a na- 
tional hero after his explorations 
of the Colorado River, to add hu- 
man studies to his interest in ge- 
ology. In time, Powell established 
the Bureau of American Ethnology, 
predecessor to the Department of 
Anthropology and its National 
Anthropological Archives in the 



National Museum of Natural His- 
tory. The bureau documented the 
languages and customs of what 
were then assumed to be vanishing 
American Indian cultures (later 
augmented by materials associated 
with other global communities) 
in a series of studies, field notes, 
photographs, and eventually 
sound recordings. This remarkable 
and still developing body of mate- 
rials has been called by the great 
French anthropologist Claude 
Levi-Strauss a "living inspiration." 

Research at the Smithsonian has 
another "godfather" from its early 
years, Henry's assistant and succes- 
sor as Secretary, Spencer Fullerton 
Baird. Baird never saw a contradic- 
tion between the Smithsonian's 
research and museum functions 
and committed himself, at first 
discretely, to the accumulation of 
extensive collections for study and 
public display. Henry might have 
guessed at Baird's intentions when 
the young man arrived in 1850 to 
take up his new position with two 
railroad boxcars filled with his 
personal collections. 

In time, Baird's determination 
added to the Smithsonian's re- 
search goals a commitment to 
collection-based investigations. 
Inspired by Henry's own strategy 
of recruiting a network of scientific 
observers, Baird established con- 
nections to individuals throughout 
the country — farmers and soldiers, 
as well as committed naturalists — 
who were inspired to send to the 
Castle in Washington, D.C., a 
range of items, from Indian arti- 
facts (which have grown to the 
Smithsonian's unequaled collec- 
tions of well over 2 million items 
today) to specimens of plant and 
animal life (now well over 100 
million in the National Museum 
of Natural History alone). Partici- 
pants in the government's explo- 
rations of the West were encour- 



10 



aged to collect for the Smithsonian 
as well, instructed by Baird, as 
were all in his army of volunteer 
collectors, in the proper prepara- 
tion and documentation of the 
specimens. 

Baird's Smithsonian took a lead- 
ership role that the Institution 
continues to maintain in systemat- 
ics research, which builds systems 
of classification of plants and ani- 
mals derived from the study of 
their physical characteristics. The 
National Museum of Natural His- 
tory's Laboratory of Molecular 
Systematics, for example, uses 
molecular biology to examine an 
organism's DNA as additional aids 
to classification. In the scientific 
sense, fossils have taken on new 
life. And, in another example of 
new uses for old collections, scien- 
tists have used the Smithsonian's 
vast collection of North American 
bird eggs, collected in the 19th 
century, to assess damage done to 
the eggs of bird populations ex- 
posed in our own time to DDT. 

Neither Henry nor Baird could 
have imagined the enormous 
scope of activities of the modern- 
day Smithsonian, but elements of 
their research philosophies have 
shaped much of its development. 
Henry's ideal of a research institute 
has been realized in such units as 
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Ob- 
servatory and the Smithsonian 
Tropical Research Institute (STRI), 
both ranked among the top cen- 
ters of their kind in the world. 
Baird's ideal of museum-based 
research has expanded from the 
activities of the single National 
Museum he presided over to the 
proliferation of great museums 
devoted to individual fields in 
science, history, and art, each with 
their community of scholars. 

While the many hundreds of 
researchers in the modern Smith- 
sonian cover an extraordinary 




Charles W. Richmond, a Smithsonian ornithologist in the early 20th century, acquired this copy 
of the second edition of John Coakley Lettsom's The naturalist's and traveller's companion, 
containing instructions for collecting & preserving objects of natural history (London, 1 774), 
now in the Charles W. Richmond Collection, Smithsonian Institution Libraries. Practical manuals 
such as this one, which shed light on collecting practices, are of interest to Smithsonian staff 
who study the Institution's natural history collections. (Photograph by Rick Vargas) 




■^TO^.'l^ 



On Mauna Kea In Hawaii, the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Is 
constructing a unique astronomical Instrument. The eight antennas of the 
submllllmeter array (SMA) will be used for observations In the still largely 
unexplored region of submllllmeter radiation. The first two prototype 
antennas are shown here at SAO's assembly and test facility In 
Massachusetts. (Photoqrnf")h by James Moron) 



11 




Javier Fiano and Michael Dillon, 
interns in the Smithsonian Tropical 
Research Institute's Joint Latino 
Program, look for tungara frogs 
during the night as part of a study on 
frog communication led by STRI 
staff scientist A. Stanley Rand and 
Michael Ryan from the University of 
Texas at Austin. (Photograph by 
Marcos A. Guerra) 



range of topics, they share the im- 
pulse at the heart of all research: to 
know what has never been known 
before. The astrophysicist, the 
natural scientist, the anthropolo- 
gist, the historian, and the art his- 
torian keep in mind the fundamen- 
tal questions of their particular 
field — whether about the origins of 
the cosmos, the interrelationship 
of life on Earth, the patterns of hu- 
man behavior and events, or the 
brilliance of individual creativity — 
while devoting themselves to the 
process of uncovering in their own 
work one piece of a larger puzzle. 
One example in the sciences is 
the painstaking work done by 
Anthony Coates, deputy director 
of STRI, and his colleagues in an 
eight-year project to study the 10- 
million-year geological and biolog- 
ical record represented by an iso- 
lated archipelago in Panama. In 



the end their work will produce 
maps of rock layers and a time 
range of fossil species among other 
measures of environmental and 
biological change. The period cov- 
ered is one that saw the creation of 
the Isthmus of Panama, separating 
the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans 
and, by changing ocean currents, 
possibly providing the moisture 
that triggered an Ice Age. 

A fascinating example of Smith- 
sonian research in history is pro- 
vided by the work of Paul John- 
ston, maritime curator in the 
Division of Transportation at the 
National Museum of American 
History, who conducted 211 dives 
in two years in Lake Superior to 
recover artifacts and gain informa- 
tion about a propeller steamship 
wrecked in 1858. One of the earlier 
ships to travel the Great Lakes, the 
Indiana, well preserved by the cold 



12 



water, gives modern researchers a 
way to document mid- 19th-century 
propulsion machinery and to un- 
derstand better, in Johnston's words, 
the role of the steamer "in the de- 
velopment of maritime trade, travel, 
and the settlement of the Great 
Lakes region." 

Late-20th-century research in art 
history has provided new strategies 
to answer questions about the cre- 
ative process. One of the most 
remarkable examples is provided 
by a collaboration undertaken a 
few years ago between Elizabeth 
Broun, director of the National 
Museum of American Art, and 
Ingrid Alexander, an art research 
historian specializing in technical 
analysis at the Smithsonian Con- 
servation Analytical Laboratory 
(now the Smithsonian Center for 
Materials Research and Education). 
In preparation for her ground- 
breaking exhibition and publica- 
tion on Albert Pinkham Ryder, 
who is counted among America's 
greatest artists, Broun sought to 
understand with Alexander's help 
the nature of Ryder's experimenta- 
tion with color and materials, of- 
ten obscured by the deterioration 
and restoration of his paintings. 
The autoradiographs (similar to 
x-radiographs) that Alexander pro- 
duced enabled new insights into 
the reclusive artist's technique and 
sophistication. 

These are, of course, just snap- 
shots from the remarkable range 
of research activities pursued by 
our professional staff within the 
Institution and around the world. 
While it would be impossible here 
to describe them all, certain frame- 
works capture the spirit of inquiry 
across the modern Smithsonian 
and reveal our particular strengths 
as a research institution. 

The recent creation at the Smith- 
sonian of an Institute for Conser- 
vation Biology, involving work 
pursued acro.ss many of our units, 




The black-footed ferret, once thought to be extinct, is flourishing with the 
help of the National Zoological Park's Conservation and Research Center 
Scientists there have developed assisted reproduction techniques to 
complement the natural breeding program. Dr JoGayle Howard and Jennifer 
Buff hold two of the 45 black-footed ferret kits produced at CRC by artificial 
insemination. (Photograph by Jessie Cohen) 



reflects recognition of the need for 
an integrated approach encom- 
passing many scientific fields to 
understand the complex interde- 
pendence and fragility of the nat- 
ural world. At the National Zoo, 
for example, researchers draw 
upon insights provided by the 
study of genetics, physiology, be- 
havior, evolutionary biology, and 
ecology to support its breeding 
and conservation efforts around 
the world, with special attention 
to the preservation of threatened 
animals. The Smithsonian Envi- 
ronmental Research Center in the 
Chesapeake Bay region devotes its 
long-term program to the goal of 
gaining a landscape ecology per- 
spective on air, land, and water in- 
teractions in its coastal zone, while 
at the Center for Earth and Plane- 
tary Studies at the National Air 
and Space Museum, researchers arc 



involved in studies of arid environ- 
ments around the world as a way 
of evaluating climate changes. 

Other scientists, at our National 
Museum of Natural History, work 
to trace the evolutionary relation- 
ships that connect all plants and 
animals, living and extinct, while 
those involved with the many re- 
search projects at the Smithsonian 
Tropical Research Institute cope 
with the mystery of how little we 
know about the nature and multi- 
million number of species, most of 
them in the tropics, that make up 
the diversity of life on Earth. 

From the start, much of Smith- 
sonian scientific research has been 
driven by a sense of urgency. The 
establishment of the National Zoo 
in 1889, for example, had its roots 
in the concern of Smithsonian nat- 
uralist William T. Hornaday and the 
third Smithsonian Secretar\-, Sanniol 



13 



After the National Portrait Gallery 
acquired this large portrait of William 
McKlnley by Adolfo Muller-Ury, research 
by graduate student intern Michelle 
Kloss uncovered new information about 
its history. Kloss determined that it was 
painted after McKinley's assassination 
In 1901, probably from photographs 
taken by Frances Benjamin Johnston 
Just days before the president was 
shot. 




14 



Pierpont Langley, that the popula- 
tion of American bison had been 
\ dangerously reduced. So concerned 
were they over the disappearance of 
this distinctly North American un- 
gulate that Langley and Homaday 
penned a few behind the Castle, 
sought land and funds from Con- 
gress, and founded the National 
Zoo as the Smithsonian's first step 
in species conservation. 

Modern Smithsonian researchers 
are in the forefront of those ad- 
dressing, in the words of a recent 
statement, such pressing issues of 
environmental and ecological con- 
cern as "acid rain, global warming, 
deterioration of the ozone layer, 
clear-cutting of tropical forests, de- 
sertification, and pollution of the 
oceans." On an individual level, an 
activist research agenda is typified 
by the work of scientists like 
Ronald Heyer, curator of amphibi- 
ans and reptiles at the National 
Museum of Natural History, whose 
concern about declining global 
frog populations has led him to 
chair an alliance of 1,000 volun- 
teer scientists around the world to 
monitor the problem. 

Another way in which certain 
research interests throughout the 
Institution complement each other 
is within the broad category of the 
exploration of "material culture," 
the interpretation of objects as 
documents of human and natural 
history. As a repository of "things" 
of all sorts (141 million in our col- 
lections at last count), the Smith- 
sonian offers advantages over the 
university in providing scholars 
with the opportunity to examine 
directly and debate the various 
meanings objects reveal across 
disciplines. One example was a 
discussion held about the Hope 
Diamond, in which a geologist pro- 
vided a perspective on its natural 
formation across millions of years, 
a decorative arts specialist described 
its role as a cut and polished gem- 




This colorful carnival mask from the Teodoro Vidal Collection of Puerto Rican 
Material Culture at the National Museum of American History recalls the rich 
heritage of Puerto Rico and the persistence of cultural traditions. (Photograph 
by Richard Strauss) 



stone in the history of jewelry, and 
a folklorist revealed the pattern of 
its ownership from India to Europe 
and the United States and the leg- 
ends that have added so much to 
its mystery and attraction. 

Some of the most interesting 
discussions of this sort take place 
under the auspices of the Smith- 
sonian Forum on Material Culture, 
which invites to its meetings any 
scholar with an interest in cross- 
cultural and cross-disciplinary in- 
terpretation. One meeting asked 
forum members representing the 
history of technology, art history, 
and archaeology to interpret three 
African chairs owned by the 
National Museum of African Art. 
Another took on the imaginative 
theme of "Captured Water," in 



which a curator from the Arthur 
M. Sackler Gallery showed the 
ways in which the culture of India 
has ritualized the human relation- 
ship to water and a curator from 
the Cooper-Hewitt, National De- 
sign Museum explained the many 
purposes fountains serve in Euro- 
pean life. Then a scientist, Michael 
Robinson, director of the National 
Zoo, joined in with a description 
of his planned exhibition on the 
centrality of water to life on the 
planet. This is the multifaceted 
Smithsonian at its best, sharing 
knowledge across the full range of 
arts and sciences. 

Although the Smithsonian is its 
own community of research, the 
Institution is as committed to the 
creation of resources available to 



15 




Volunteers work with Smithsonian 
staff on important curatorial tasks, 
such as the restoration of this Pitts 
Special airplane, Little Stinker, at the 
National Air and Space Museum's 
Paul E. Garber Preservation, 
Restoration, and Storage Facility. 
Curator Dorothy Cochran (second 
from left) supervised the project, 
which involved volunteers (from left) 
Cindy Rousseau, George Rousseau, 
Joe Fichera, and Roger Guest. 
(Photograph by Carolyn Russo) 



researchers throughout the world. 
No scholar of American art can do 
without the extraordinary range of 
materials collected and catalogued 
by our Archives of American Art, 
with centers in California and New 
York, as well as Washington, D.C. 
Other researchers have available 
to them such documentary collec- 
tions as the advertising history 
materials in the Archives Center of 
the National Museum of American 
History, the Catalog of American 
Portraits at the National Portrait 
Gallery, and the more than 
200,000 photographs and nearly 
2 million pages in unpublished 
materials at the National Anthro- 
pological Archives. Add to this the 
enormous resources of the Smith- 
sonian Institution Libraries system 
and the Smithsonian Institution 
Archives, among hundreds of col- 



lections of documents and objects 
too numerous to mention, and the 
Institution becomes a resource of 
vast proportions. 

There was a reason why James 
Smithson coupled the "increase" 
with the "diffusion" of knowledge. 
The Smithsonian's commitment to 
"discovery" can mean at the purest 
level of research the expansion of 
human knowledge beyond any- 
thing grasped before, but "discov- 
ery" also happens whenever any 
one of us encounters and under- 
stands something we did not know 
before. That process is repeated mil- 
lions of times in exhibitions at the 
Institution and in those presented 
by the Smithsonian Institution 
Traveling Exhibition Service, at pro- 
grams provided by The Smith- 
sonian Associates and by Smith- 
sonian Productions, in the wealth 



16 



of articles in Smithsonian magazine, 
and in the expanding world of the 
electronic Smithsonian, which now 
welcomes millions of visitors each 
month to our home page on the 
World Wide Web, www.si.edu. 

But to return to the concerns 
expressed at the "What About In- 
crease?" conference, very few of 
our visitors associate the process of 
research with the exhibitions and 
programs they enjoy. In her address 
to that meeting, Maxine Singer, 
president of the Carnegie Institu- 
tion in Washington, D.C., and 
chair of the Smithsonian's Com- 
mission for the Future, explained 
that researchers themselves have 
"failed to convey to people . . . how 
we come to know things and what 
the standards of knowing are." 

I find that a very fair observa- 
tion. Very often exhibitions and 
programs provide the fruits of 
investigation but little about the 
process itself. What were the 
questions posed? How were con- 
clusions reached? Do questions 
remain? If the information is 
groundbreaking, we need to know 
that. If it is a synthesis of what is 
already known, tell us that as well. 

Some of our most exciting pro- 
grams are now geared exactly to do 
that — to let the public in on the 
workings of research. One of my 
favorites in a scientific field is 
"Think Tank," a complete rework- 
ing of the small mammal house at 
the National Zoo. "Our goal," ac- 
cording to the head of the team 
that produced it, Ben Beck, "is to 
engage the public in a field of 
study that has challenged scien- 
tists for 2,000 years." Visitors are 
exposed to monitors showing vari- 
ous aspects of animal behavior 
such as a group of beavers building 
a dam and asked, "Is this think- 
ing?" The answers are not clear-cut 
and point to questions about how 
we define thinking and its compo- 
nent elements of planning and 




In this photograph from the Earl S. Tupper Collection in the National Museum 
of American History's Archives Center, Earl Tupper (left), Inventor of 
Tupperware, reviews design blueprints for a "Wonder-ller" bowl, about 1951 . 
Collections range from a IVlidwestern dentist's appointment book to the 
personal and business records of a pioneer In the development of television 
to an extensive collection of advertising proof sheets created by a single 
advertising agency. 



flexibility. At the heart of the in- 
stallation is the opportunity to ob- 
serve behavioral scientists interact- 
ing with orangutans in a language 
project based on communication 
through touch-screen computer 
technology and a new symbolic 
language created at the National 
Zoo. 

Unlike research in the sciences, 
research in the humanities does not 
proceed through experimentation 
as much as through the search for 
meaning in human history and 
expression. Because the process is 
more subjective, it is less easily 
demonstrated to our visitors, but 
two curators at the Hirshhorn 
Museum and Sculpture Garden are 
at work on a groundbreaking exhi- 
bition that might just do the trick. 
To mark the museum's 25th an- 
niversary in October 1999, Neal 
Benezra and Olga M. Vise are ex- 
amining what has happened to the 
idea and ideal of beauty in the art 



of the 20th century. By reviewing 
how, in Benezra's words, "time- 
honored aesthetic standards" had 
come to be considered by many 
artists and critics "no longer valid," 
the curators will show through the 
juxtaposition of various works of 
art changing visions of the beauti- 
ful but draw no absolute conclu- 
sions. "Our question to viewers," 
Benezra says, "will be the same one 
that we have been stuiggling with: 
'What could beauty in art be at the 
end of the 20th century?'" 

These two exhibitions, one in the 
sciences and one in the humanities, 
point the way to the Smithsonian 
of the future, a place committed to 
sharing with the public not only 
what we know, but what we do not 
yet know, sharing the questions we 
ask and tlie approach we take to 
answering them. That Smithsonian 
will be a "college of discoverers" for 
the 21st century. 



17 



BBBnra 



aiii'i 






REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 



The Institution's central 
administrative offices are based In 
thie Smithsonian Castle. This view 
shows the southern facade of the 
Castle, with the Victorian parterre of 
the Enid A. Haupt Garden, at center, 
bordered by the Arthur IVI. Sackler 
Gallery pavilion on the left and the 
National Museum of African Art 
pavilion on the right. (Photograph by 
Jeff Tinsley) 



Secretary Heyman and the Regents' committees contributed substantially to the Board of 
Regents' accomplishments at its three meetings on January 26, May 11, and September 
14, 1998. At the September meeting, the board voted to designate Esteban E. Torres as a 
Regent Emeritus, with all the rights and responsibilities thereof, effective upon his retire- 
ment from the U.S. House of Representatives. 

The Regents continued their practice of meeting as a Committee of the Whole on the 
afternoons preceding each meeting. In these sessions, they reviewed selected museum op- 
erations and advisory board activities, consulting with the directors and board representa- 
tives of the Freer and Sackler Galleries, the National Museum of the American Indian, and 
the National Museum of American History. In addition, the Regents discussed in depth 
such issues as Smithsonian capital campaign planning, Smithsonian business initiatives, 
and strategies for fulfilling facilities needs. Out of these discussions, the Regents autho- 
rized undertaking a national fund-raising campaign, establishing a special business orga- 
nization within the Smithsonian, and appointing an ad hoc Committee on Facilities. 

The Audit and Review Committee met three times during the year and continued to 
exercise its primary responsibility for oversight of the Smithsonian's financial operations. 
The committee discussed KPMG Peat Marwick's report on fiscal year 1997 transactions 
and considered the Smithsonian Inspector General's semiannual reports to Congress. The 
committee also considered a study on enhancing business activities, reviewed cash man- 
agement and pledge collection policies and procedures, and discussed both Year 2000 
computer problems and the Regents' policy on the rotation of independent auditors. 

The Investment Policy Committee also met three times. The committee monitored the 
investment managers' development of the Institution's endowment, rebalanced the port- 
folio, and evaluated the managers' performance. In addition, the committee recom- 
mended a total-return payout rate for fiscal year 1999 and proposed a plan for meeting 
the financial needs of the first two years of the Smithsonian's capital campaign out of 
endowment funds. The Regents appointed Smithsonian National Board vice-chair 
Frank A. Weil to the Investment Policy Committee, and the committee was saddened by 
the passing of its member Thomas Keresey. 

At each of their meetings, the Regents considered comprehensive financial reports. 
They approved the trust and federal expenditures for fiscal year 1999 and the request to 
the Office of Management and Budget for fiscal year 2000 appropriations. The Regents 
also discussed how exhibition topics are selected and developed at the Smithsonian and 
were briefed on the Institution's highly respected security operations that safeguard 
collections and people. 

Through the Secretary's reports at their meetings, the Regents were informed about the 
design and implementation of a uniform visual identity for the Smithsonian. In accor- 
dance with the new institutional logo, the Regents adopted a new seal effective August 
10, 1998. The Secretary's reports also informed the Regents about the Star-Spangled Ban- 



19 



ner Preservation Project and the 
difficulties emanating from the 
contract for architectural services 
for the National Museum of the 
American Indian. Under the Secre- 
tary's initiative, congressional 
members of the board supported 
legislation to gain coverage for the 
Institution under Title VII of the 
Civil Rights Act, the Rehabilitation 
Act, and the Age Discrimination 
Act. The congressional Regents 
also sought statutory authority for 
the Board of Regents to enlarge the 
membership of its advisory boards 
for the purpose of increasing their 
ability to raise support for the 
Smithsonian's museums. 

Among their many actions, the 
Regents affirmed their intention to 
construct the National Air and 
Space Museum Dulles Center as 
soon as possible, approved the 
acquisition of land in support of 



Smithsonian research programs, 
and agreed to endow Smithsonian 
marine research out of the Seward 
Johnson Trust for Oceanography. 

The Regents established two 
advisory bodies: the board of the 
National Air and Space Museum 
Dulles Center and an advisory 
board for the Anacostia Museum 
and Center for African American 
History and Culture. In addition, 
the Regents approved bylaws for 
the Visiting Committees of the 
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and the 
Freer Gallery of Art and bylaws 
amendments for the Smithsonian 
National Board. 

The Board of Regents made the 
following appointments and reap- 
pointments to Smithsonian advi- 
sory boards: Carolyn S. Blount, 
Sylvia A. Earle, Jane B. Eisner, 
Patricia Frost, Nely Galan, Bert 
Getz, Paul Hertelendy, Dona 



Kendall, Marie L. Knowles, Marc E. 
Leland, John D. Macomber, Eliza- 
beth S. MacMillan, Holly Madigan, 
Michael McBride, Kenneth B. 
Miller, John M. Nelson, Joan Noto, 
Clemmie Dixon Spangler, and 
Kelso Sutton to the Smithsonian 
National Board; Rita Fraad, 
William G. Kerr, Henry Luce III, 
Peter Lunder, Richard J. Schwartz, 
Ferdinand T. Stent, and Wesley S. 
Williams Jr. to the Commission of 
the National Museum of American 
Art; David C. Driskell, Frances 
Humphrey Howard, and Robert H. 
Nooter to the Commission of the 
National Museum of African Art; 
Todd Axelrod, Richard Carrion, 
Thad Cochran, Jerry Florence, 
Dorothy Lemelson, and James Mel- 
lor to the National Museum of 
American History Board; Kenneth 
E. Behring, William H. Frist, Arthur 
Gray Jr., John S. Hendricks, Stanley 




20 



Ikenberry, Jean Lane, Robert Mal- 
ott, Jeffery W. Meyer, Nancy R. 
Morin, David Pilbeam, Paul G. 
Risser, Alan Spoon, and Milton H. 
Ward to the National Museum of 
Natural History Board; James 
Block, Ellsworth Brown, Eloise Co- 
bell, Jorge Flores Ochoa, Catherine 
Fowler, Doug George, Luci Tapa- 
honso, Bernie Whitebear, and 
Phyllis Young to the Board of 
Trustees of the National Museum 
of the American Indian; Robert A. 
Bartlett, Edith A. Cecil, Jeannine 
Smith Clark, Elizabeth Frazier, 
Laura Howell, Alberta Kelly, 
William Ramsey, Jeffrey R. Short 
Jr., and Henry Strong to the Advi- 
sory Board of the National Zoolog- 
ical Park; Thomas Alexander and 
Henry Hartsfield Jr. to the Council 
of Philatelists of the National 
Postal Museum; Charlotte N. 
Castle, Shirley M. Gifford, Rose- 
mary Livingston Ripley, and Frank 
A. Weil to the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution Libraries Board; Agnes 
Bourne, Anne Ehrenkranz, Barbara 
Riley Levin, Richard Meier, Enid 
Morse (Honorary Life Trustee), 
and Harry G. Robinson III to the 
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design 
Museum Board of Trustees; James 
R. Cargill II, Dollie A. Cole, Mor- 
ton Funger, Robert James, Walter 
H. Leimert Jr., Adrienne Bevis 
Mars, Thomas G. Morr, Donald B. 
Rice, Clive Runnells, John Safer, 
Carrington Williams, and Daniel 
W. Yohannes to the National Air 
and Space Museum Dulles Center 
National Board; Kurt Gitter and 
Elizabeth ten Groetenhuis to the 



For earlier generations of 
Smithsonian visitors, the Arts and 
Industries Building was the home of 
the United States National Museum, 
(f^hotograph by Joff TInslny) 



Freer Gallery of Art Visiting Com- 
mittee; and Robert Feinberg to the 
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery Visiting 
Committee. 

Staff Changes 

Government Relations Director 
M. John Berry left the Smithsonian 
during fiscal year 1998 to become 
assistant secretary for management 
and budget at the U.S. Department 
of the Interior. In January, after an 
extensive search, the Institution 
was pleased to welcome Donald L. 
Hardy as director of government 
relations. Hardy had served as 
chief of staff to Senator Alan K. 
Simpson (R- Wyoming) and be- 
came well acquainted with the In- 
stitution during Senator Simpson's 
tenure as a Smithsonian Regent. 
In August, Refugio I. ("Will") 
Rochin, former director of the 
Julian Samora Research Institute 
at Michigan State University, be- 
came the founding director of the 
Smithsonian Center for Latino 
Initiatives. Earlier in the year, 
counselor to the Provost Franklin 
S. Odo established the Program 
for Asian Pacific American Studies. 
Ross B. Simons was named direc- 
tor of the Smithsonian Environ- 
mental Research Center in addi- 
tion to his duties as associate 
director for research and collec- 
tions at the National Museum of 
Natural History. Michael Sofield 
was appointed director of the 
Office of Physical Plant, and Rex 
Ellis left his position as director of 
the Center for Museum Studies to 
become chairman of the Division 
of Cultural History in the National 
Museum of American History. 
Regrettably, Leslie Casson Stevens 
resigned from her position as 
comptroller to pursue other inter- 
ests, and Daniel H. Goodwin re- 
tired from the directorship of 
Smithsonian Press/Smithsonian 
Productions. 



The Smithsonian was supported 
throughout the year by a loyal and 
dedicated staff. While some may 
go and will be missed, the Institu- 
tion has always been fortunate to 
attract highly talented individuals 
to serve in their stead. The result is 
an ever-productive group of profes- 
sionals, aided in almost every en- 
deavor by spirited volunteers and 
guided by increasingly involved 
members of the advisory boards 
and the Board of Regents. 



21 



RESEARCH ON THE LEADING EDGE 



REPORT OF THE PROVOST 



J. DENNIS O'CONNOR 




Provost J. Dennis O'Connor 
(Photograph by Rick Vargas) 



When the Chandra X-ray Observatory (CXO) is launched from the Kennedy Space Center 
aboard the space shuttle Columbia later in 1999, the Smithsonian will be there. The 
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO), a pioneer in x-ray astronomy, played a ma- 
jor role in developing the orbiting observatory and is the site of the Chandra Science Cen- 
ter, which will receive and analyze information from the spacecraft's sophisticated instru- 
ments and make it available to the scientific community. SAO will also manage the 
Chandra Operations Control Center. 

The Chandra Observatory takes the Smithsonian in new, but not surprising, directions. 
Since its founding, the Institution has been on the leading edge of research. The first Sec- 
retary, Joseph Henry, one of the most eminent scientists of his time, believed that the im- 
portance of the Institution was measured by the knowledge it sent out into the world. Un- 
der his successor Spencer FuUerton Baird, a respected naturalist and the quintessential 
collector, the national collections began to grow. The next Secretary, Samuel Pierpont 
Langley, an early investigator of variable solar temperatures and the sun's corona, was an 
astronomer who was also intrigued by aeronautics. The fourth Secretary was Charles 
Doolittle Walcott, a geologist and paleontologist best known for one of the greatest finds 
in paleontology, the Burgess Shale. 

The fact that this remarkable quartet of scientists shaped the Smithsonian during its 
first century is a significant statement about the Institution's fundamental purpose. The 
Smithsonian of Henry, Baird, Langley, and Walcott was on the leading edge of the scien- 
tific disciplines of its time: electricity, astronomy, aeronautics, evolution, comparative 
zoology, and comparative botany. 

Headed toward the millennium, the Smithsonian remains on the leading edge. Research 
brings about paradigm shifts — changes in the fundamental theoretical framework of a 
discipline or a body of knowledge. As a result of research, a paradigm is initiated, sustained, 
or refuted, or existing observations are tested and reinterpreted based on a new perspective. 

In our museums and research institutes and in the field, Smithsonian researchers 
advance knowledge in dramatically different fields. Hundreds of intriguing examples 
could illustrate the research that distinguishes the Institution. Here are a few that suggest 
the immense range of interests being pursued under its aegis: 



The support cell that will hold the 
new 6.5-nneter-dlameter mirror of the 
Joint Smithsonian-University of 
Arizona Multiple IVllrror Telescope 
was Installed in the modified building 
atop Mount Hopkins In southern 
Arizona in August. (Photograph by 
Julieta Gonzalez) 



■ Melinda Zeder of the National Museum of Natural History's Department of Anthropology has stud- 
ied museum collections of modern and archaeological bones to develop a new technique for identify- 
ing the earliest stages of animal domestication. She has used accelerator mass spectrometry radiocar- 
bon dating to directly date the earliest evidence for the domestication of a herd animal (the goat) to 
9,900 years ago at the archaeological site of Ganj Dareh in highland western Iran. 

■ Wendy Wick Reaves' inquiry into early-20th-century caricature in America defined a new art fc^rm 
closely related to the emerging celebrity culture. Her research, which evaluated artists' fresh ap- 
proaches to traditional caricature, resulted in the National Portrait Gallery exhibition "Celebrity C'ari- 
cature in America" and the well-received book of the same title. 

■ For a book manuscript titled Lost Revolutions: Ilw South in the l'-)SOs, [\W Daniel, curator in the I tistory 



23 



of Technology Division at the National 
Museum of American History, has ana- 
lyzed agricultural transformation, the en- 
vironment, stock car racing, music, and 
civil rights. 

■ Jenny So, curator of ancient Chinese 
art at the Freer and Sackler Galleries, is 
looking at some 1,000 pieces of jade 
dating from 4000 B.C. to 1900 a.d. She 
is trying to determine the location, 
function, and cultural uses of those 
pieces and place them in a taxonomy 
of use throughout that period to see 
what changes occurred. 

■ Reproductive research by research 
veterinarian Steven Monfort at the Na- 
tional Zoo's Conservation and Research 
Center in Front Royal, Virginia, could 
contribute to saving the endangered 
scimitar-horned oryx, a species of 
African antelope that is extinct in the 
wild. Monfort's research team devel- 
oped new sperm freezing and artificial 
insemination techniques to enhance 



MUSEUMS AND RESEARCH INSTITUTES 



the global genetic management of this 
rare antelope. 

The reports from museums and 
research institutes on the follow- 
ing pages describe more research 
highlights. Together, these reports 
communicate the extent and the 
significance of the Smithsonian 
research enterprise. 

In the decades ahead, the Smith- 
sonian must remain on the leading 
edge. The Chandra X-ray Observa- 
tory is an especially striking exam- 
ple because it could change our 
view of the cosmos through the 
power of x-ray astronomy. In other 
realms, the opportunities are also 
compelling: the National Museum 
of American History's research on 
the Teodoro Vidal Collection of 
Puerto Rican Material Culture, the 
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture 
Garden's analysis of the complex 



questions of beauty in late-20th- 
century art, the Smithsonian Trop- 
ical Research Institute's important 
interdisciplinary research in tropi- 
cal paleontology, archaeology, and 
geology. 

How fortunate we are to have 
the legacy of Henry, Baird, Lang- 
ley, and Walcott. The Smith- 
sonian's extraordinary research 
resources are of great value in the 
"increase" of knowledge and in 
sharing it with scholarly commu- 
nities. Of equal value, however, is 
the potential to carry that knowl- 
edge to the public. Using the re- 
sults of research by Smithsonian 
scholars in the arts, the humani- 
ties, and the sciences, the Institu- 
tion can demystify the unfamiliar, 
challenge assumptions, and stimu- 
late new ways of thinking and un- 
derstanding. That is the ultimate 
power of our research tradition. 




ANACOSTIA MUSEUM AND 
CENTER FOR AFRICAN 
AMERICAN HISTORY AND 
CULTURE 

Steven Cameron Newsome, 
Director 

In fiscal year 1997, the Anacostia 
Museum and Center for African 
American History and Culture 
marked its 30th anniversary with 
an aggressive start on five major 
research projects and the opening 
of an expanded Archives Study 



Broadway star Jennifer Holliday 
(standing second from left) was the 
keynote entertainer at Carnival '98, 
the first annual masquerade ball and 
fund-raiser for the Anacostia 
Museum and Center for African 
American History and Culture. 
(Photograph by Harold Dorwin) 



24 



and Storage Center, a move that 
significantly enhanced the mu- 
seum's ability to collect and share 
archival material. 

■ The museum launched its fourth 
decade of exploring African American 
culture with a new way of celebrating 
February's Black History Month. A ca- 
pacity crowd came to the Smithsonian 
Castle for the museum's first annual 
Carnival, a festive masquerade ball for 
which guests were encouraged to dress 
as figures from African American his- 
tory. This event, the museum's first 
fund-raiser, benefited educational and 
outreach activities. 

■ A five-year research project culmi- 
nated in the opening of "Speak to My 
Heart: Communities of Faith and 
Contemporary African American Life," 
an exhibition examining the roles of 
African American religions and spiri- 
tual institutions in shaping civic and 
cultural life in black communities. 
With nearly 200 objects, including 
photographs, artifacts, and architec- 
tural models — all displayed inside a 
full-size replica of a vaulted-ceiling 
sanctuary — the exhibition takes a fresh 
look at the classic diversity of African 
American forms of worship and how 
faith communities respond to society's 
constantly changing challenges. The 
exhibition will begin a national tour 
in 2000. 

■ The museum has embarked on re- 
search into the history and traditions 
of African American food. The project 
draws on the resources of the mu- 
seum's research staff in partnership 
with a team of award-winning chefs, 
food scholars, and cookbook authors 
from across the country. The resulting 
exhibition, "With These Hands: African 
American Food and Cultural Tradi- 
tions," will explore the development of 
regional black cuisine and the links be- 
tween African Americans and the food 
traditions of Africa, the Caribbean, and 
Native Americans. The research team 
will also study ways in which the cur- 
rents of cultural and social history have 
shaped food traditions. 

■ African American dance is the focus 
of new research that will result in two 



exhibitions. The first project examines 
the life and work of the renowned 
dancer, choreographer, anthropologist, 
and activist Katherine Dunham. Mu- 
seum staff have begun an inventory of 
Dunham's personal collections and a 
series of oral history interviews. The 
second project documents the evolu- 
tion and influence of African American 
dance in the District of Columbia. A 
major focus of this endeavor will be 
Washington's U Street corridor, known 
in the 1920s as Black Broadway. 

■ Acknowledging the role of photogra- 
phy in documenting history, the mu- 
seum initiated a critical study of more 
than 150 years of photographs taken 
by black photographers. In the making 
is a collection of portraits, art photog- 
raphy, photojournalism, and social 
documentary pieces dating from pho- 
tography's invention in 1839 to the 
present. The aim is to provide a histori- 
cal and artistic framework for the most 
significant images produced during this 
period. 

■ Also in progress is a major investiga- 
tion of the history of African American 
cinema. In partnership with the New 
York-based Black Filmmakers Founda- 
tion, the museum is exploring the di- 
versity of independent and commercial 
films created by people of African de- 
scent around the world. This activity is 
expected to result in significant addi- 
tions to the museum's collections. 

■ In an intensified campaign to tell the 
unique story of the African American 
woman in history and culture, the mu- 
seum and center completed research 
that resulted in "Resonant Forms: Con- 
temporary African American Women 
Sculptors." The five-month exhibition 
opened in the Arts and Industries 
Building as a companion to an exhibi- 
tion revealing a sculpting legacy for 
black women that began in the mid- 
1800s with the classically trained artist 
Mary Edmonia Lewis. Another exami- 
nation of women's issues in African 
American history centers on the experi- 
ences of women in the workforce. 



ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART 

Richard J. Wattenmaker, Director 

Established in 1954 to enable and 
encourage research in American art 
history, the Archives of American 
Art has grown to include more 
than 13 million items. It is the 
world's largest source for docu- 
mentary materials on the visual 
arts of the United States. Central to 
the Archives' mission is sharing 
the treasures of its unique research 
collections with the broadest pos- 
sible audience. As a member of 
the Research Libraries Group, the 
Archives makes its automated 
catalogue accessible through the 
Research Libraries Information 
Network. Other research services 
include an active interlibrary pro- 
gram of collections on microfilm 
and the publication of scholarly 
articles showcasing the collections 
in the quarterly Journal. The 
Archives also publishes finding 
aids and guides to its collections 
and supports or organizes sym- 
posia, conferences, and exhibitions 
related to its holdings. The 
Archives' resources are available 
online at www.si.edu/artarchives. 

■ The Archives' updated Web site, 
www.si.edii/artarchives, features links to 
the online catalogue, the reference 
desk, and, for the first time, online ex- 
hibitions. Since the new site was un- 
veiled early in the fiscal year, inquiries 
from scholars around the world have 
increased by 25 percent. Other new 
additions to the site are Web versions 
of Thie Papers of African American Artists 
and Tlw Papers of Latino ami Latin 
American Artists and a guide to art 
dealers' records in the collections. 

■ The completion of several processing 
projects has made the collections more 
accessible to researchers. Among these 
projects was the processing and micro- 
filming of the Rockwell Kent papers 
and the publication of a finding aid. 
Also processed were the records of the 
American Federation of Arts and the 



25 




5Ci!&'^ 



In 1998, the Archives of American Art 
acquired the research material of 
Chuck and Jan Rosenak, authorities 
on American folk art, whose 
collection of contemporary folk art is 
one of the finest in the United 
States. Artist Rod Rosebrook is 
shown here with his iron buggy 
wheel assemblages. (Photograph by 
Chuck Rosenak) 



Downtown Gallery. Finding aids are in 
preparation for these two collections 
and for the papers of Holger Cahill and 
Abraham Rattner. The finding aid to 
the papers of Tomas Ybarra-Frausto will 
be published early in fiscal year 1999. 
These finding aids are a significant re- 
search resource and complement the 
reference services that are central to 
the Archives' mission. 
■ Materials from the Archives' collec- 
tions were displayed in the gallery of 
the New York Regional Center in "Vi- 
sual Thinking: Sketchbooks from the 
Archives of American Art," an exhibi- 
tion featuring the sketchbooks of 19th- 
and 20th-century artists. Also on dis- 
play was the exhibition "El Movi- 
miento: Selections from the Tomas 



Ybarra-Frausto Research Material on 
Chicano Art." Ybarra-Frausto donated 
more than 20,000 documents, a major 
addition to the holdings already listed 
in the Archives' publication The Papers of 
Latino and Latin American Artists (1996). 

■ Resources for the study of Latino and 
Latin American art were enhanced by 
the first phase of an oral history project 
to interview Cuban American artists, 
conduct video interviews with Puerto 
Rican artists, and compile a compre- 
hensive survey of art-related manu- 
script materials in Puerto Rico. The 
project is supported by the Smith- 
sonian's Fund for Latino Initiatives. 

■ The Archives continued to provide 
educational opportunities to a diverse 
population through internships and 
fellowships that foster the careers of re- 
searchers in American art. Ondine 
Chavoya, for example, completed a fel- 
lowship at the Archives funded 
through the Smithsonian's Center for 
Museum Studies. His research topic is 
ASCO, a Latino collaborative artists' 
group based in East Los Angeles. 

■ Among the significant additions to 
the Archives' holdings were the papers 
of abstract expressionist artist Hans 
Hofmann (1880-1966), who achieved 



fame and influence through his paint- 
ings and through the school he estab- 
lished in the United States after fleeing 
Nazi Germany. Also collected were the 
final installment of the papers of Herbert 
Waide Hemphill Jr. (1929-98), folk art 
collector, founder of the Museum of 
American Folk Art, and Smithsonian 
benefactor, and the papers of Chuck and 
Jan Rosenak, which document their folk 
art research and collecting. The Archives 
also acquired the papers of Sherman E. 
Lee, art historian and director emeritus 
of the Cleveland Museum of Art. 



26 



ARTHUR M. SACKLER 
GALLERY 

Milo C. Beach, Director 

In the 11 years since it was founded 
as a national museum of Asian art 
for the United States, the Arthur M. 
Sackler Gallery has broadened its 
reputation for dynamic, research- 
based presentations on Asia's varied 
and numerous cultures through ex- 
hibitions, public programs, and 
publications. Established to share 
the historical focus of its sister mu- 
seum, the Freer Gallery of Art, the 
Sackler Gallery also has increased 
the range of Asian art activities at 
the Smithsonian through its pre- 
sentations of contemporary art and 
a wide range of media and artistic 
practice. 

■ Their Imperial Highnesses Prince 
Takamado, first cousin to the Emperor 
of Japan, and Princess Takamado were 
guests of honor at the gala dinner cele- 
brating the opening of "Twelve Cen- 
turies of Japanese Art from the Imperial 
Collections," an exhibition of painting 
and calligraphy representing the taste 
and patronage of Japanese rulers from 
the ninth century to the present. The 
exhibition was organized by the Impe- 
rial Household Agency, the Agency for 
Cultural Affairs, the Japan Foundation, 
and the Freer and Sackler Galleries and 
was made possible by generous grants 
from the Henry Luce Foundation and 
the Blanchette Hooker Rockefeller 
Fund, with additional support from the 
Smithsonian Institution Special Exhibi- 
tion Fund, the Japan World Exposition 
Commemorative Fund, and an indem- 
nity from the Federal Council on the 
Arts and the Humanities. Its illustrated 
catalogue won awards from the Associ- 
ation of American University Presses, 
the Art Directors Club of Metropolitan 
Washington, and the American Associ- 
ation of Museums. 

■ The Office of the Provost provided 
funding for the Sackler and Freer Pho- 
tography Department to digitize and 
store on compact discs some 12,000 
color transparencies of art in the gal- 
leries' collections. When the conver- 




Five Tibetan Buddlnist monks from tine Drepung Loseling Monastery in 
southern India drew thousands of visitors to the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery 
during the first nine days of the exhibition "The Buddha's Art of Healing." They 
created a five-foot mandala, or diagram of the universe. Here, the monks use 
a fine-colored sand to fill in the design, which represents the Healing 
Buddha. (Photograph by John Tsantes and Neil Greentree) 



sion is completed, the Images will be 
accessible electronically for research, 
education, collections management, 
and public information. 

■ The popular interactive exhibition 
and Web site "Puja: Expressions of 
Hindu Devotion" won the 1998 Accessi- 
bility Award from the American Associa- 
tion of Museums and the National Or- 
ganization on Disability. The project 
resulted from collaboration among 
gallery education specialists, members 
of the local Hindu community, scholars, 
and representatives from the American 
Council of the Blind, the National 
Council of Senior Citizens, the National 
Federation of the Blind, and Gallaudet 
University. The JCTenncy Company 
provided a $ 1,000 prize to the gallery. 

■ Over a nine-day period, Washington 



post.com featured a daily update on the 
construction at the gallery of a five- 
foot mandala, or diagram of the uni- 
verse, made from colored sand. Five 
Buddhist monks came from the 
Drepung Loseling Monastery in south- 
ern India to create the mandala, which 
enriched visitors' experience of "The 
Buddha's Art of Healing: Tibetan Medi- 
cal Paintings from Buryatia." This Sack- 
ler exhibition showed works from the 
only surviving copy of a 17th-century 
treatise on traditional Tibetan medi- 
cine, considered one of Tibet's greatest 
cultural treasures. 
■ Vidya Dehejia, a scholar who has 
served as the curator of .South and 
Southeast Asian art at the Sackler and 
Freer Calleries since 1994, has been 
appointed to a new position as the 



27 



galleries' associate director and chief 
curator. Dehejia supervises four curato- 
rial areas (Japanese; Chinese; South, 
Southeast, and West Asian; and Ameri- 
can art) and the Education Depart- 
ment. She also continues to oversee the 
galleries' South and Southeast Asian 
collections, which include some 4,000 
works of art from the second to the 
20th century. 

■ The director established a new four- 
member Department of Digital Infor- 
mation Services to oversee the applica- 
tion of computer-based technology to 
the galleries' operational needs. Work- 
ing with colleagues in other depart- 
ments, the staff is developing effective 
uses for technology to achieve the gal- 
leries' missions as public institutions 
devoted to research and education. 



CENTER FOR FOLKLIFE 
PROGRAMS AND CULTURAL 
STUDIES 

Richard Kurin, Director 

The Center for Folklife Programs 
and Cultural Studies joins research 
with community service and edu- 
cational outreach to promote the 
understanding and continuity of 
diverse contemporary grassroots 
cultures. A primary goal is to en- 
courage participation in commu- 
nity culture and appreciation for 
its role in a civil society. The center 
produces the annual Smithsonian 
Folklife Festival, Smithsonian 
Folkways Recordings, exhibitions, 
documentary films and videos, sym- 
posia, and educational materials. 



Fieldworkers from the Cultural Center of the Philippines, the cosponsor with 
the Center for Folklife Programs and Cultural Studies of the Philippines 
program at the 1998 Smithsonian Folklife Festival, interview a T'boil metalworker 
on southern Mindanao Island. (Photograph by Richard Kennedy) 




It also conducts basic ethno- 
graphic research and maintains 
an extensive documentary archive. 
Every center program is highly col- 
laborative. Training of community- 
based researchers is an integral 
part of Folklife Festival programs. 



■ Contemporary living cultural tradi- 
tions filled the National Mall again thi 
year at the 32nd annual Smithsonian 
Folklife Festival, held from June 24 
through July 5, 1998. "Wisconsin" celt 
brated 150 years of statehood with 14C 
participants presenting canoe building 
the polka, and Green Bay Packers lore 
A centennial celebration of the Philip- 
pine declaration of independence frorr 
Spain, "Pahiyas: A Philippine Harvest," 
included craftspeople, performances in 
an ornate chapel, and a traditional 
procession and concert for Filipino- 
American Day. "The Baltic Nations: 
Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania" featured 
the music, dance, and foodways of 
these newly independent nations. "Rio 
Grande/Rio Bravo Basin" used music, 
crafts, and discussion to highlight the 
issues of culture and ecology in this 
binational river basin. Three special 
evening concerts included the fourth 
annual Ralph Rinzler Memorial Con- 
cert featuring Klezmer music, a Smith- 
sonian Folkways concert to launch the 
second Heartbeat: Voices of First Nations 
Women recording, and a concert cele- 
brating the issue of four U.S. postage 
stamps in honor of four Folkways 
artists. Support for these programs 
came from the Wisconsin Sesquicen- 
tennial Commission, AT&T, SC John- 
son Wax, the Credit Unions of Wiscon- 
sin, The American International Group, 
Inc., The Starr Foundation, Bell Atlantic, 
the Asian Cultural Council, the Philip- 
pine Centennial Commission, U.S.- 
Mexico Fund for Culture, SBC Founda- 
tion, Texas Folklife Resources, the Texas 
Council for the Humanities, The Re- 
cordings Industries Music Performance 
Trust Fund, and the Ruth Mott Fund. 

■ Smithsonian Folkways' six-CD 
recording Anthology of American Folk 
Music received Grammy Awards for 
best historical album and best album 
notes. The anthology has been the sub- 



28 



ject of more than 100 articles in major 
magazines and newspapers, from 
Newsweek to the New York Times to 
- Rolling Stone. 

■ Smithsorjian Folkways Recordings 
celebrated its 50th anniversary with a 
concert in Carnegie Hall on May 1, 
1998. Performers included Ossie Davis, 
Theodore Bikel, Pete Seeger, Ella Jenk- 
ins, Lucinda Williams, Ralph Stanley, 
and the Freedom Singers. 

■ Two Folklife Festival programs were 
restaged during the year: the 1997 "Mis- 
sissippi Delta" program in Greenville, 
Mississippi, and the 1998 "Wisconsin" 
program in Madison, Wisconsin. Musi- 
cians, craftspeople, workers, storytellers, 
and others from these programs gave lo- 
cal audiences an opportunity to enjoy 
the festival experience. 

■ The center completed Hosay Trinidad, 
a film documentary on the Muslim 
festival of Muharram as celebrated on 
the island of Trinidad. The film follows 
the transformation of this religious 
celebration from the Middle East 
through India to the Caribbean. The 
completion of a second film on the 
construction of an Ojibway canoe is 
planned for the winter of 1998. 

■ Center staff conducted several 
talleras, or workshop-training pro- 
grams, in Texas and New Mexico for 
students assisting with the research 
for the "Rio Grande/Rio Bravo Basin" 
Folklife Festival program. Their re- 
search was used in program develop- 
ment, and some of their writings were 
published in the festival program book. 

COOPER-HEWITT, NATIONAL 
DESIGN MUSEUM 

Dianne H. Pilgrim, Director 

Cooper-Hewitt, National Design 
Museum, dedicated to exploring 
the impact of design on daily life, 
is the only museum in the United 
States devoted exclusively to his- 
torical and contemporary design. 
As the museum enters its second 
century, curatorial research is at the 
heart of its tradition of challenging 
exhibitions and publications, inno- 
vative educational programs for 



children and adults, and access to a 
world-renowned collection. 

■ The exhibition "Fountains: Splash 
and Spectacle" and the companion 
book of the same title are outstanding 
examples of the extensive scholarly 
research that makes exhibitions and 
publications possible. Using original 
drawings, prints, rare books, and 
photographs from the museum's hold- 
ings and those of cultural institutions 
around the world, the exhibition ex- 
plored the history of fountain design 
from the 15th century to the present. 

■ "Under the Sun: An Outdoor Exhibi- 
tion of Light" presented innovative so- 
lar design solutions for local and global 
energy needs. Researching state-of-the- 
art applications of solar technology, the 
museum worked with leading archi- 
tects to design this exhibition of solar 
design prototypes, from buildings to 
products, all powered by the Sun. 

■ Other exhibition highlights from 



1998 included "The Jewels of Lalique," 
"Arquitectonica: The Times Square 
Project," "Opening Our Doors: Selec- 
tions from the Design Resource Cen- 
ter," and off site exhibitions "Graphic 
Design in the Mechanical Age: Selec- 
tions from the Merrill C. Herman 
Collection," cosponsored with the 
Williams College Museum of Art, 
and "Concerned Theatre Japan: The 
Graphic Art of Japanese Theatre, 
1960-1980," cosponsored with the 
American Institute of Graphic Arts. 
In addition, the museum published 
Design for Sports: The Cult of Performance 
with Princeton Architectural Press and 
Graphic Design in the Mechanical Age: 
Selections from the Merrill C. Berman 
Collection with Yale University Press 
and Williams College Museum of Art. 
■ At a donor recognition party on June 
4, 1998, the Cooper-Hewitt, National 
Design Museum celebrated the comple- 
tion of its four-year, $20 million reno- 
vation and the opening of the Design 



This archival photograph of a covered bowl with quartz handles, early 1940s, 
by Jean E. Pulforcat (French, 1897-1945) Is In the Jean E. Pulforcat Collection 
at the Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum. It is part of an ongoing 
research project to catalogue and document the Pulforcat Collection. 




29 



Resource Center. This new study fa- 
cility gives the public unparalleled ac- 
cess to the more than 250,000 objects 
in the museum's collections simply 
by making an appointment. It is the 
centerpiece of the renovation project 
and helps the museum fulfill its pur- 
pose as a visual library open to all. 

■ Major collection-based research 
projects continued during 1998 with 
generous support from the Smith- 
sonian's research grant programs. Gail 
S. Davidson, assistant curator of draw- 
ings and prints, received a grant to 
catalogue and document the museum's 
Jean E. Puiforcat Collection. Puiforcat, 
one of the most celebrated silversmiths 
of the 20th century, was among the 
Parisian designers who helped to create 
the Art Deco style. Marilyn Symmes, 
curator of drawings and prints, re- 
ceived a grant to catalogue the Leon 
Decloux Collection of Ornament Al- 
bums. The grant made it possible to 
engage a leading authority on Euro- 
pean ornament prints and to photo- 
graph the prints. 

■ In May 1998, the museum hosted an 
important symposium, "Preserving the 
Architecture of Cuba." This event 
brought together scholars, architects, 
and preservationists from Cuba and the 
United States to address Cuban archi- 
tectural history, national preservation 
goals, and the restoration of specific 
sites and monuments. 

■ Since 1989, the museum has awarded 
the Peter Krueger-Christie's Fellowship 
to a young scholar pursuing in-depth 
research in historic or contemporary 
design that complements the mu- 
seum's collections. Established in 
memory of Christie's vice-president 
Peter Krueger, who began his career at 
the museum, the fellowship has distin- 
guished alumni whose research has led 
to publications and exhibitions. During 
fiscal year 1998, the eighth Krueger- 
Christie's Fellow, Paul Makovsky, stud- 
ied the museum's substantial Ladislav 
Sutnar Archive. This archive consists of 
material relating to all areas of Sutnar's 
career, including exhibition design, de- 
sign for corporate clients, book design, 
and catalogue information. 



FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Milo C. Beach, Director 

The international reputation of the 
Freer Gallery of Art as a research 
institution is based on a 75-year 
record of scholarly studies focused 
on its outstanding collection of 
Asian art, as well as American art 
of the 19th and early 20th century. 
The Freer and the Arthur M. Sack- 
ler Gallery together form the na- 
tional museum of Asian art for the 
United States, and their collections 
are an important resource for 
scholars from many nations. 

■ The Friends of Asian Arts, the gal- 
leries' 164-benef actor membership 
group chaired by Elizabeth A. Sackler, 
purchased three outstanding works of 
art in honor of the Freer's 75th anni- 
versary this year. The objects are an 
11th-century crowned Buddha from 
India; a Muromachi-period (15th- 
century) stoneware jar from Bizen 
Province, Japan; and The Tale ofShuten 
Doji, a set of three handscroll paintings 
by the Japanese artist Kano Shoun 
(1637-1702). They will be unveiled in 
the exhibition "Beyond the Legacy: 
Anniversary Acquisitions for the Freer 
Gallery of Art," on view from October 
11, 1998, through April 11, 1999. 

■ The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation 
gave $600,000 to support a four-year 
study, "Materials and Structures of East 
Asian Paintings," that is allowing re- 
searchers in the Department of Con- 
servation and Scientific Research to 
address long-standing problems in the 
history and survival of works of art 
based on scientific knowledge of their 
components. Designed and directed 
by John Winter, the galleries' senior 
conservation scientist, the project uses 
laboratory methods to examine how 
Asian paintings are made, the materials 
they are made of, and how they de- 
teriorate under various conditions. 

■ Continuing efforts to make the 
largest Asian art research library in the 
United States more accessible to the 
public resulted in several technical ad- 
vances this year. Records of the Freer 



and Sackler Library can be searched on 
the World Wide Web in romanized 
Chinese, Japanese, and Korean, as well 
as in English. The library staff began 
contributing records of the names of 
Asian artists and institutions to the 
database of the National Cooperative 
Cataloging Project, an important pub- 
lic outreach effort by the international 
library cataloguing community. Using 
the slide library's new digital media 
workstation, researchers can correct, re- 
size, and organize images for transferral 
to an office computer or use in visual 
presentations. 

■ A gift from the E. Rhodes and Leona 
B. Carpenter Foundation enabled the 
gallery to purchase an outstanding 
group of Chinese paintings and callig- 
raphy, selections of which will be 
shown in the 75th anniversary exhibi- 
tion. Grants from the foundation also 
made possible the initiation of two 
important new research and publica- 
tion projects on Chinese art: a cata- 
logue of the Freer and Sackler jade 
collections by Jenny F. So, curator of 
ancient Chinese art, and a catalogue 
of the Song-dynasty (960-1279) and 
Yuan-dynasty (1279-1368) paintings 
in the Freer Gallery by Joseph Chang, 
associate curator of Chinese art. 

■ Two monographs published this year 
documented the history and aesthetic 
significance of two of the gallery's 
greatest works of art. Sultan Ibrahim 
Mirza's Haft Awrang: A Princely Manu- 
script from Sixteenth-Century Iran (1997), 
by Marianna Shreve Simpson with con- 
tributions by Massumeh Farhad, and 
The Peacock Room: A Cultural Biography 
(1998), by Linda Merrill, were copub- 
lished by the Freer and Yale University 
Press. The Haft Awrang yohime was 
published with the assistance of the 
Getty Grant Program and with funds 
provided by the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Scholarly Studies Program. The 
Peacock Room was made possible by a 
generous grant from the Henry Luce 
Foundation. 

■ As the season finale to the Bill and 
Mary Meyer Concert Series, the Takacs I 
Quartet devoted two evenings to the 
six string quartets of Bela Bartok (1881- 
1945). In his essay in the program 



30 




"Beyond the Legacy: Anniversary 
Acquisitions for the Freer Gallery of 
Art" included Sa'di in the Hose 
Garden, from a Mughal period 
nnanuscript of the Gulistan by Sa'di, 
India, ca. 1645. It was a gift to the 
gallery from the Art and History Trust 
In honor of Ezzat-Maiek Soudavan 



31 



Charles Lang Freer and Egypt 



Although Charles Lang Freer is best known for his 
extensive collections of Chinese and Japanese art 
and 19th- and eariy-20th-century American painting, 
he developed a keen interest in Egypt's ancient art 
and monuments beginning with his first trip there in 
1906-07. This year, a small exhibition opened at the 
Freer Gallery of Art presenting highlights of an as- 
pect of the Freer collection that few people realize is 
in Washington. It is the first time that a significant 
group of these materials has been on display. 

"Charles Lang Freer and Egypt," continuing indefi- 
nitely, was part of a larger research project by Ann 
Gunter, associate curator of ancient Near Eastern 
art, to place within a broad cultural and intellectual 
context the Egyptian antiquities that museum 
founder Freer acquired between 1906 and 1909. 
Gunter will complete the project and the resulting 
publications with funding from the Smithsonian's 
Collections-Based Research Program. 

Freer's acquisitions — about 1 ,500 objects made of 
glass, wood, faience, and stone — include master- 
pieces of Dynasty 18 (1550-1307 B.C.), such as 
glass vessels, bronze figurines, carved limestone 
plaques, faience bowls and amulets, a rare painted 
wooden shrine and cult image, and the fifth-century 
manuscript now known as the Washington Manu- 
script of the Gospels (Codex Washlngtonlensis). Di- 
aries, correspondence, and other archival materials 
further document Freer's interest in Egyptian art. 

Only a few of these objects have been published, 
and no detailed study has sought to understand 
Freer's Egyptian acquisitions in the context of his 
larger and better-known collections of Asian and 
American art. Drawing on many unpublished docu- 
ments and other archival sources, Gunter's re- 
search project will, for the first time, investigate the 
role of Egyptian art in Freer's aesthetic thought and 
place the collection in the broader setting of early- 
20th-century American and European appreciation 
of Egyptian art. Results of this research will be 
made available to a wide audience through a book, 
Charles Lang Freer and Egypt, written for the gen- 
eral reader. Gunter is also at work on a second pub- 
lication about Freer's Egyptian collection, directed to 
a more specialized audience. It will bring to scholars' 
attention many unpublished objects in the mu- 
seum's collections, as well as the exceptionally rich 
sources documenting how and why they were 
acquired. 




On trips to Egypt, Charles Lang Freer (second from left) pursued his avid 
interest in Egyptian antiquities. He was photographed in Cairo in 1909 with 
(from left) Thomas IVIann, Ibrahim Aly, and Ali Arabi, through whom he 
purchased the fifth-century manuscript now known as the Washington 
Manuschpt of the Gospels. 



notes, "Bartok, the Chinese Com- 
poser," Bright Sheng explains how his 
own music is influenced by his en- 
counters with folk music in rural China 
during the Cultural Revolution and by 
his later interest in Bartok, who incor- 
porated Hungarian folk traditions into 
his work. 



1 



HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND 
SCULPTURE GARDEN 

James T Demetrion, Director 

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp- 
ture Garden, the Smithsonian In- 
stitution's museum for modern 
and contemporary art, is commit- 
ted to increasing the awareness 
and understanding of art through 
acquisitions, exhibitions, publica- 
tions, research activities, public 
programs, and the presentation of 
the collection in its galleries and 
outdoor exhibition spaces. The 
museum provides a public facility 
for the exhibition, study, and 
preservation of 19th- and 20th- 
century art while presenting a 
spectrum of contemporary work. 



32 



■ The scholarly persistence of Judith 
Zilczer, curator of paintings, led to a 
discovery about the subject of a figura- 
tive composition by American artist 
Willem de Kooning in the Hirshhorn's 
collection. The work's prone male had 
always been known by its descriptive 
title Reclining Man and assigned the 
date 1964, but after a Washington 
colleague pointed out that the face 
resembled that of President John F. 
Kennedy, Zilczer began piecing 
together archival evidence and recol- 
lections from de Kooning's associates 
that proved the painting represents the 
artist's direct response to Kennedy's 
assassination on November 22, 1963. 
Both the New York Times and the Wash- 
ington Post reported Zilczer's discovery 
in July, and her research was presented 
in the summer 1998 issue oi American 
Art, the journal of the National Mu- 
seum of American Art. As a result of 
Zilczer's research, the work has been 
retitled Reclining Man (John F. Kennedy) 
and assigned the earher date of 1963. 

■ New research into the nature of the 
paints and pigments used by abstract 
expressionists, for whom the descrip- 
tive ability of paint was an essential 
factor in communicating a message, 
has been undertaken by conservator 
Susan Cooperrider Lake. Her analysis 
of Willem de Kooning's work in the 
Hirshhorn's collection, for instance, re- 
vealed various mixtures of housepaint, 
ground glass, plaster of paris, and chalk 
on several paintings and provided nu- 
merous other insights into the artist's 
studio methods. Lake's findings will 

be published in 1999 in the National 
Gallery of Art's conservation research 
journal. 

■ Reflecting an interdisciplinary ap- 
proach, The Collection in Context series 
continued to elucidate art with nonart 
materials from Smithsonian sources. In 
an exhibition on French cubist sculptor 
Raymond Duchamp- Villon's 1914 

I bronze The Horse, for instance, period 
images of exposition Machine Halls, 
freeze-framc photograi)hy, rare scientific 
treatises, and correspondence and docu- 
ments were borrowed from the Library 
of Congress, Smithsonian institution 
Archives, Smithsonian Institution 




Libraries, and Archives of American Art 
to dramatize the artist's pursuit of a 
machine-based style. The summer exhi- 
bition on Henry Moore's 1937 Stringed 
Figure No. 1 used 19th-century mathe- 
matical models from the National 
Museum of American History to dem- 
onstrate the British sculptor's clear in- 
spiration from such objects. 
■ Curator of sculpture Valerie J. Fletcher 
continued her long-term research on 
evolving issues, attitudes, and ethical 
questions surrounding cast sculpture of 
the 19th and 20th centuries. Her work 
has taken her to the archives of the 
Musee d'Orsay in Paris, the Henry 
Moore Foundation in Hertfordshire, En- 
gland, and elsewhere to study a broad 
range of artists, techniques, and materi- 
als. Fletcher is the author oiA Garden for 
Art: Outdoor Sculpture at llic llirshhoni, 



A Garden for Art: Outdoor Sculpture 
at the Hirshhorn Museum, a 96-page 
illustrated guide by curator of 
sculpture Valerie J. Fletcher, was 
copublished with Thames and 
Hudson in June 1998. 



33 



copublished by the museum in June 
with Thames and Hudson. The 96-page 
guide was made possible by a generous 
gift from Hirshhorn Board Chairman 
Robert Lehrman and supported by a 
grant from the Smithsonian Women's 
Committee. 

■ Two exhibitions, both accompanied 
by scholarly catalogues and public pro- 
grams, presented a wealth of material 
on artists largely unknown to museum 
visitors. Stanley Spencer (British, 
1891-1959), whose biblical scenes, 
nudes, portraits, allegories, and land- 
scapes are little exhibited or studied 
outside his native England, was the 
subject of "Stanley Spencer: An English 
Vision," co-curated by James T. 
Demetrion and co-organized with 
the British Council. "Triumph of the 
Spirit: Carlos Alfonzo, A Survey, 
1975-1991" organized by associate 
curator Olga M. Viso, placed the ex- 
pressive, symbol-laden imagery of the 
Havana-born, Miami-based painter 
who died of AIDS within an interna- 
tional context. A grant from the Smith- 
sonian's Latino Initiatives Fund sup- 
ported the Washington presentation. 



NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE 
MUSEUM 

Donald D. Engen, Director 

Like no other field of human en- 
deavor, the study of aviation and 
space flight provides an opportu- 
nity for the Smithsonian to cap- 
ture and record an event from its 
birth. The National Air and Space 
Museum, with the largest collec- 
tion of aviation and space artifacts 
in the world, collects and preserves 
objects that tell the entire history 
of aviation and space flight. The 
museum's legacy will be its record- 



ing and preservation of this 
unique human experience. 

■ The design of the museum's new 
Dulles Center, a major aerospace dis- 
play, restoration, and archival facility 
that will house 180 aircraft in its main 
hangar alone, was completed this year. 
The campaign to raise $130 million to 
build the center is under way, with 
Senator John Glenn as an honorary 
chair. The center's National Board helc 
its first meeting on June 29. The board 
will provide leadership, advice, and 
support to ensure that the education, 
restoration, and display objectives of 
the center are carried out in an effec- 




34 



tive and innovative manner. 

■ Under an agreement with the Na- 
tional Aeronautics and Space Adminis- 
tration, the museum acquired Spacelab, 
a modular laboratory that fit inside the 
Space Shuttle payload bay and allowed 
the shuttle to be used as an "intermit- 
tent space station" for sophisticated 
scientific research. Beginning with the 
first Spacelab flight in 1983, some 50 
shuttle missions included Spacelab 
elements, and 21 were called Spacelab 
missions. The museum also acquired 
two spacesuits used by American astro- 
nauts on the Russian space station Mir. 
One was worn by Norm Thagard on 
launch and re-entry. The other — a pro- 
phylactic body-loading suit designed to 
imitate the effects of gravity during 
long space flights — was used by Shan- 
non Lucid during her 180-day stay on 
Mir. Museum technicians in the collec- 
tions division are inspecting and cata- 
loguing several boxes of late 1940s 
vintage aircraft instruments that were 
donated to the Smithsonian's collec- 
tion. Many of these instruments will 
eventually find their way into aircraft 
in the collections that have incomplete 
cockpits. 

■ The Center for Earth and Planetary 
Studies continued its wide range of ter- 
restrial and planetary remote sensing 
and fieldwork endeavors. This research 
includes analyses of Martian climate 
changes as revealed by crater erosion, 
structural geology studies of Mars and 
Mercury, planetary geologic mapping, 
and geophysical analyses of Venus's 



"Star Wars: The Magic of Myth," an 
exhibition at the National Air and 
Space Museum, showcased the 
original artwork, props, models, 
costumes, and characters used to 
create the Star Wars trilogy. Shown 
here are the robots C-3PO and 
R2-D2. (Photograph by Eric Long 
and Mark Avino for the exhibition 
"Star Wars: The Magic of Myth." 
Star Wars™ and © 1997 by Lucasfllm 
Ltd. All rights reserved) 



volcanoes. A major field expedition, 
part of an ongoing research project 
studying volcanic hazards in the Coca 
Valley of Peru, was completed in the 
summer of 1998. This expedition made 
use of GPS (Global Positioning Satellite) 
technology, which is featured in an ex- 
hibit that opened in the fall of 1998. 

■ The museum continued its outreach 
efforts through programs and events. 
During the "Wings and Things" open 
house at the Paul E. Garber Preserva- 
tion, Restoration, and Storage Facility 
in Suitland, Maryland, the public was 
invited into eight buildings (including 
three not usually open to visitors) for a 
rare look at more than 150 airplanes 
and spacecraft. Another popular event 
is "Mars Day," when visitors can see a 
Mars meteorite, 3-D views of the Red 
Planet, and a demonstration of the So- 
journer Pathfinder rover. The museum's 
Web site, www.nasm.edu, continues to 
reach an average of 4 million people 

a month. 

■ Several new exhibits expand visitors' 
understanding of aviation and space 
flight history. "Business Wings" ex- 
plores the role of aircraft in the busi- 
ness community and features a Beech 
King Air Model 90 and a Cessna Cita- 
tion 500. "Earth Today: A Digital View 
of Our Dynamic Planet" explains how 
global earth science data sets reveal the 
complex interactions among the atmo- 
sphere, oceans, land masses, and life. 
The exhibit includes 10-foot-high im- 
ages of Earth and a seven-minute video 
program narrated by James Earl Jones, 
"i Arriba!" chronicles the history of 
flight in Mexico, Central America, 
South America, and the Caribbean. 
"Star Wars: The Magic of Myth" has 
attracted more than 700,000 visitors 
since it opened on October 31, 1997. 

■ A major renovation project is under 
way to replace the skylights and the 
"window walls," the large exterior 
panes that give the museum its distinc- 
tive look. The first- and second-floor 
ceilings also will be replaced, and the 
lighting and public address systems 
will be upgraded. The museum will 
remain open during the entire renova- 
tion, which is scheduled to be finished 
by July 2001. 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF 
AFRICAN ART 

Roslyn A. Walker, Director 

The National Museum of African 
Art's purpose is to foster public 
understanding and appreciation 
of the diverse cultures and artistic 
achievements of Africa — through 
its collections, exhibitions, and 
public programs — and to con- 
tribute to research in those arts. 

■ The exhibition "Olowe of Ise: A 
Yoruba Sculptor to Kings" and its 
unique activity room for families cele- 
brated the work of one of Africa's great- 
est traditional sculptors, introducing 
visitors to Olowe's distinctive style of 
carving wood. Research by museum 
director Roslyn A. Walker resulted in a 
monograph published in conjunction 
with the exhibition, including a cata- 
logue raisonne of the artist's known 
works — the first time a traditional 
African artist has been featured in 
such a publication. 

■ The museum opened the Sylvia H. 
Williams Gallery, the first permanent 
gallery to be devoted to modern African 
art in a United States museum, reflect- 
ing the museum's expanded mission to 
collect and display modern African art. 
The gallery's inaugural exhibition, "The 
Poetics of Line: Seven Artists of the 
Nsukka Group, Nigeria," featured 64 
paintings, drawings, prints, wood sculp- 
tures, and mixed-media works by seven 
Nigerian artists connected with the De- 
partment of Fine and Applied Arts at 
the University of Nigeria. In conjunc- 
tion with the exhibition, the museum 
organized a symposium with the seven 
featured artists and leading scholars 
from Africa, Europe, and the United 
States who explored Nsukka art and 
related the artists' work to the larger 
contemporary art scene in Nigeria and 
throughout the world. 

■ The exhibition "South Africa 
1936-1949: Photographs by Constance 
Stuart Larrabee" was the first public 
presentation of an important collection 
of black-and-wliite photograpiis of 
South Africa gi\en to the nuiscum by 



35 




Visitors to the National Museum of 
African Art played the African board 
game mankala at a Family Day held 
in conjunction with the exhibition 
"Olowe of Ise." (Photograph by Terry 
G. McCrea) 



the photographer in 1997. In addition 
to the photographs, the collection in- 
cludes Larrabee's entire personal docu- 
mentation of her photographic activi- 
ties in South Africa, which has never 
before been made available to re- 
searchers. The collection is the basis of 
ongoing study and future publications. 
■ Several major acquisitions will be the 
focus of further research and future 
exhibitions. They include a selection 
of 14 sculptures from Central and East 
Africa and a rare Mbete reliquary figure 
from Gabon; two fine Urhobo and Igbo 
figures from Nigeria; the artist's book 
Emandulo, Re-Creation (1997), created 
in Johannesburg, South Africa; and a 
sculpture. The Ancestors Converged 
Again, by Ghanaian artist El Anatsui. 



■ With the five other Smithsonian art 
museums, the museum acquired a col- 
lections information system. The soft- 
ware, known as The Museum System^M, 
allows staff to manage transactions and 
information and, ultimately, to give 
scholars and the public electronic 
access to the collection. 

■ To provide appropriate care for the 
museum's rapidly increasing modern 
art collection, the Conservation De- 
partment frequently works with the 
Smithsonian Center for Materials Re- 
search and Education. Current research 
involves the investigation of destruc- 
tive crystalline growth beneath the 
plaster surface of a multimedia work 
by South African artist Rudzani 
Nemasatoni. 




David Hockney's monumental landscape, A Bigger Grand Canyon, 1998, presents a sweeping view of Its subject In 
60 small canvases mounted as one continuous 24-foot Image. The painting was acquired this year by the National 
Museum of American Art. {© David Hockney. Photograph by Richard Schmidt) 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF 
AMERICAN ART 

Elizabeth Broun, Director 

The National Museum of American 
Art, the nation's museum dedi- 
cated to the arts and artists of the 
United States from colonial times 
to the present, provides collections 
and vast research resources that 
enable the public and scholars to 
use and enjoy America's visual arts 
at the museum and online. The 
museum, which includes the Ren- 
wick Gallery, serves diverse audi- 
ences throughout the nation, as 
well as those who visit its two his- 
toric landmark buildings in Wash- 
ington, D.C. 

■ Revitalization of the museum's 
30-year-old fellowship program re- 
sulted from a dramatic increase in pri- 
vate funding. In addition to support 
from the Renwick Alliance and the Sara 
Roby Foundation, which supported 
two fellows, fellowships were under- 
written by Patricia and Phillip Frost 
and Sheila W. and Richard J. Schwartz. 
The museum's recognized expertise in 
Latino studies led the Rockefeller Foun- 
dation to fund four Latino fellowships. 
An aggressive promotional campaign, 
which disseminated fellowshii) infor- 
mation through a new brochure and 



the museum's Website, produced many 
high-quality applications. Nineteen 
fellows, the largest number in the pro- 
gram's history, will pursue independent 
research based on the museum's collec- 
tions in the 1998-99 academic year. 
■ Several acquisitions and exhibition 
initiatives focused on the museum's 
heightened involvement with contem- 
porary art. The purchase of Megatron/ 
Matrix (1995), a multimedia installa- 
tion by pioneer video artist Nam June 
Paik, articulates the borderless reality 
of the contemporary world and the 
central role of technology in modern 
society, while Carlos Jose Alfonzo's 
painting Where Tears Can't Stop (1986) 
explores the personal iconography of 
his Caribbean heritage. A summer loan 
of David Hockney's panoramic A Bigger 
Grand Canyon (1998) grappled with the 
representation of vast heroic landscape, 
reinterpreting a favorite subject of 
Thomas Moran, a 19th-century artist 
featured in the museum's collection. 
"Eyeing America: Robert Cottingham 
Prints" celebrated the acquisition of a 
set of the artist's photorealist prints 
spanning three decades that focus on 
signs, storefronts, and marquees, the 
emblematic details of the urban Ameri- 
can landscape. The Renwick Gallery, a 
department of the National Museum of 
American Art, introduced the work of a 
relatively unknown artist working with 
pure gold, steel, fossil ivory, and pre- 



cious gems to create extraordinary 
objects featured in "Daniel Brush: 
Gold without Boundaries." 

■ The museum celebrated the final 
weekend of "Ansel Adams, A Legacy: 
Masterworks from the Friends of Pho- 
tography" with extended evening 
hours on March 27 and 28, a first for 
any Smithsonian museum. Both nights 
featured live jazz, cafe dining, and 
screenings of a video on Adams's 
career. More than 11,500 people took 
advantage of this opportunity, made 
possible by the generous support of the 
Monsanto Corporation, to see the most 
popular exhibition in the museum's 
history, which attracted some 285,000 
visitors in 18'/: weeks. 

■ SOS! (Save Outdoor Sculpture!), the 
nationwide public program cospon- 
sored by the museum and Heritage 
Preservation, advocates community 
preservation and maintenance of 
outdoor sculpture. Nearly 32,000 
sculptures are now on record. In July, 
First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton 
helped launch a new phase of SOS! — 
a $1.4 million public sculpture conser- 
vation program funded by generous 
grants from Target Stores and the Na- 
tional Endowment for the Arts. SOS! 
awards this money to communities 
around the country to provide incen- 
tives for public scul|ituro conservation. 



37 




I 



Teodoro Vidal's Vision 

Teodoro Vidal has said that he considers his collec- 
tion "a reaffirnnation of puertorriquenidad—the iden- 
tity of Puerto Rico." Now Smithsonian visitors can 
share the richness of that identity through the 
Teodoro Vidal Collection of Puerto Rican IVIateriai 
Culture in the National Museum of American History. 
Vidal, a philanthropist and business executive, gave 
his collection of more than 3,200 folk and fine art ob- 
jects to the museum in 1997. Sixty-two paintings, 
miniature paintings, and santos (wooden carvings of 
saints) were donated to the National IVluseum of 
American Art. 

As he built his collection, which dates from the 
1700s to the present, Vidal set out to preserve cul- 
tural traditions that were overlooked or disappear- 
ing. He prized the stories of the objects and their 
creators as much as the objects themselves. Sys- 
tematically pursuing information through letters, 
manuscripts, and church and colonial records, he 
created meticulous documentation that makes the 
collection particularly valuable to scholars. He devel- 
oped relationships with contemporary artists and ar- 
tisans that led to new insights about their lives and 
work. Puerto Rico's rich history and culture have not 
been well represented in museums. Now Vidal's re- 
search on his collection — the product of his passion 
for preserving Puerto Rico's collective memory — 
provides a vision of his homeland for study, learning, 
and enjoyment. 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF 
AMERICAN HISTORY 

Spencer R. Crew, Director 

The National Museum of American 
History dedicates its collections 
and scholarship to inspiring a 
broader understanding of our 
nation and its many peoples. Re- 
search provides the scholarly foun- 
dation for the museum's varied 
programs. It supports our under- 
standing of the past, our commit- 
ment to preserving America's trea- 
sured artifacts, and our mission to 
serve broad and diverse audiences. 

■ The Star-Spangled Banner, one of the 
nation's premier symbols, has been on 
display for most of this century, ex- 
posed to the damaging effects of light 
and pollution. The museum initiated 
major research efforts to determine the 
actual history of the 185-year-old flag 
and decide on appropriate preservation 
strategies. Research by museum staff 
provided an accurate chronology of the 
flag's ownership before it came to the 
Smithsonian. That research also located 
a missing fragment of the flag tucked 
away for years in a collection of per- 
sonal papers. The museum is now con- 
ducting research into the flag's chemi- 
cal and physical properties and its 



The stories behind the objects in 
Teodoro Vidal's collection of Puerto 
Rican material culture, now in the 
National Museum of American 
History and the National Museum of 
American Art, give the collection 
great research value. Here, Vidal 
talks with a Puerto Rican pava, or 
straw hat, maker (Photograph by 
Steve Velasquez) 



ability to withstand deterioration 
processes. The flag project was officially 
recognized by the White House Millen 
nium Council's Save America's Treasure; 
program and received major support 
from the Polo Ralph Lauren Corpora- 
tion. Generous support was also pro- 
vided by the Pew Charitable Trusts, the 
United States Congress, and the John S. 
and James L. BCnight Foundation. 

■ The Teodoro Vidal Collection of 
Puerto Rican Material Culture contains 
an extraordinary array of folk and fine 
art objects important to the history 
and culture of Puerto Rico. Dating from 
the 17th century to the present, the 
artifacts were collected and donated by 
Teodoro Vidal Santoni. They include 
hand-carved santos, festival masks, 
Spanish colonial portraits, musical 
instruments, toys, and other objects. 
Extensive research on the collection 
yielded insights into the role of collect- 
ing as a basis for understanding the 
history and material culture of Puerto 
Rico and resulted in a major exhibi- 
tion, "A Collector's Vision of Puerto 
Rico." The associated research, exhibi- 
tion, and public programs were made 
possible by the Smithsonian's Latino 
Initiatives Fund and numerous organi- 
zations and companies in Puerto Rico 
and the United States. 

■ The Scurlock Collection, also acquired 
by the museum in 1998, documents 
the African American community of 
Washington, D.C., from the early 1900s 
through 1994. The collection consists of 
approximately 250,000 photographic 
negatives, several thousand prints, more 
than 100 pieces of photographic equip- 
ment, and business records from the 
Scurlock Studio. Research on the collec- 
tion has centered on understanding 



38 



local and national political life through 
the eyes of African American photogra- 
phers and entrepreneurs. 
■ Research into the music and perfor- 
mance culture of the American people, 
an important part of the museum's 
work, focuses on the construction and 
conservation of musical instruments, 
analysis of written compositions, and 
study of historical and contemporary 
performance styles. This year, field re- 
search on the music of Native Ameri- 
can women yielded the second volume 
of the highly acclaimed compact disc 
Heartbeat: Voices of First Nations Women 
(Smithsonian Folkways). "Blue Guitars," 
an exhibition and series of public pro- 
grams, grew out of research into the 
craft of guitar making. Support for 
music research, exhibitions, and pro- 
grams came from the Friends of Music 
at the Smithsonian, the Lila Wallace- 



Reader's Digest Fund, The Recording 
Industries Music Performance Trust 
Fund, and the Chinery Collection. 
■ The museum's Jerome and Dorothy 
Lemelson Center for the Study of In- 
vention and Innovation supported re- 
search that culminated in this year's 
New Perspectives program, "The Colors 
of Invention: An Exploration of Color, 
Technology, and Culture." The pro- 
gram examined how the colors of our 
material world came to be; how the de- 
velopment of colors relates to products 
and technologies; and how designers, 
manufacturers, advertisers, and the me- 
dia use colors to influence our lives. 
Presentations were geared to all age lev- 
els, following the Lemelson Center's 
mission of bringing together inventors, 
scholars, educators, and young people 
to further the knowledge of and sup- 
port for invention and innovation. 




President Bill Clinton, Ralph Lauren, and First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton 
launch the White House Millennium Council's Save America's Treasures 
program at the National Museum of American History. Polo Ralph Lauren 
Corporation has pledged $10 million to the National Museum of American 
History, the largest corporate gift ever received by the Smithsonian. Save 
America's Treasures has officially recognized the Star-Spangled Banner 
Preservation Project. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley) 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE 
AMERICAN INDIAN 

W. Richard West, Director 

The National Museum of the 
American Indian (NMAI) is dedi- 
cated to the preservation, study, 
and exhibition of the life, lan- 
guages, literature, history, and arts 
of the native peoples of the West- 
ern Hemisphere. In consultation, 
collaboration, and cooperation 
with native peoples, the museum 
does research that seeks to under- 
stand and explicate the indigenous 
peoples of the hemisphere in the 
past, present, and future. In the 
past year, NMAI's interdisciplinary 
research has been focused in Peru, 
Amazonia, Mexico, and the North 
American Plains, Southeast, and 
Southwest. Current research is 
guiding the development of inau- 
gural exhibitions for the museum 
on the National Mall, which will 
encompass the world view and 
philosophies, histories, and vitali- 
ties of indigenous peoples. 

■ Construction of the museum's Cul- 
tural Resources Center in Suitland, 
Maryland, was nearly complete at the 
close of the fiscal year. The center, de- 
signed in collaboration with tribes and 
native peoples, will house, protect, and 
care for the 1-million-object collection; 
serve as a center of research, study, 
community service, and outreach; and 
support the museum's public facilities 
on the National Mall and at the George 
Gustav Heye Center in New York City. 
As the staff prepares to move collec- 
tions into the new state-of-the-art fa- 
cility in early 1999, objects will be digi- 
tally photographed to allow increased 
access through the Internet. 

■ A $500,000 challenge grant awarded 
by the Kresge Foundation in July 1997 
was successfully met in April 1998 
thanks to the generous support of indi- 
viduals, corporations, and foundations. 
This response lias raised more than 
$1.6 million for the Cultural Resources 
Center's completion ami suriwssed tlio 
October 1998 deadline of approximately 



39 



$1.5 million set by the Kresge challenge. 

■ More than $1.1 million was con- 
tributed during this fiscal year to the 
museum's endowment funds for the 
completion and financial stability of its 
facilities and programs. Planning and 
preparations were completed this year 
for the December 2, 1998, fund-raising 
gala supporting the George Gustav 
Heye Center Endowment Fund. 

■ The museum continues its commit- 
ment, under federal law and museum 
policy, to repatriate human remains 
and objects of religious and cultural 
patrimony to native groups throughout 
the hemisphere. Among the most sig- 
nificant returns this year was to the 
Haudenasaunee (Iroquois Confederacy) 
in September. 

■ "Indian Humor," an exhibition of 
87 paintings, photographs, sculptures, 
and mixed-media works that use hu- 
mor and irony to dispel the stereotype 
of stoic and serious Indians, opened at 
the George Gustav Heye Center in May. 
The exhibition addressed stereotypes 
through sarcasm, irony, and humor. 
"Indian Humor" was developed by 
American Indian Contemporary Arts 
of San Francisco. 

■ "The Art of Being Kuna: Layers of 
Meaning among the Kuna of Panama" 
opened in September at the Heye 



Center with Kuna tribal leaders in 
attendance. Featuring approximately 
300 works of art, including vibrant 
molas (colorful, richly decorated 
appliques that express all aspects of 
Kuna culture), the exhibition illustrates 
contemporary and historical Kuna life. 
"The Art of Being Kuna" was organized 
by the UCLA Fowler Museum and fea- 
tures molas from the NMAI collection. 
The Smithsonian Center for Latino Ini- 
tiatives and the 1998 Latino Initiatives 
Fund and the Joe and Emily Lowe 
Foundation, Inc. provided additional 
support for the exhibition at the Heye 
Center. 

■ The hiring of Bruce Bernstein as 
assistant director for cultural resources 
and Tim Johnson (Mohawk) as deputy 
assistant director for community ser- 
vices completes the museum's leader- 
ship team. They will provide direction, 
guidance, and oversight for collections 
management, research, repatriation, 
curatorial services, and community 
services. 

■ In November 1997, the museum 
presented its biennial Native American 
Film and Video Festival at the Heye 
Center, offering screenings of 70 films, 
videos, radio programs, and multimedia 
products by 70 indigenous mediamakers 
from North America and Latin America. 




A dramatic aerial view shows the nearly completed National Museum of the 
American Indian Cultural Resources Center and its roof structure, which was 
Inspired by natural forms. (Photograph by Debra Nauta-Rodrlguez) 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF 
NATURAL HISTORY 

Robert W. Fri, Director 

Research is central to the w^ork of 
the National Museum of Natural 
History. The museum's curators, sci 
entists, and research associates ex- 
plore, describe, interpret, and pre- 
sent to their peers and to the largei 
public the composition, diversity, 
and complex relationships of the 
natural world. Geologists look to 
the physical processes that formed 
and continue to shape Earth and 
our solar system. Biologists seek to 
trace the evolutionary history of 
living organisms, classify and docu 
ment the diversity of species, and 
understand the intricate w^eb of 
natural systems. Anthropologists 
study the biology and evolution of 
our species, as well as the rich and 
varied cultures we have created I 
over the course of our history. High- 
lights for 1998 illustrate the com- 
prehensive scope and collaborative 
nature of the museum's research. 

■ The Smithsonian Institution, through 
the National Museum of Natural His- 
tory, was one of eight international or- 
ganizations to contribute to the Inter- 
national Conservation Union's Red List 
of Threatened Plants, the first global sur- 
vey of diversity and extinction among 
flowering plants, conifers, and ferns. The 
Red List shows that more than 12 per- 
cent of species in these plant phyla are 
threatened with extinction or are nearly 
extinct. Led by Jane Villa-Lobos, direc- 
tor of the Department of Botany's Latin 
American Plants Program, researchers 
compiled the Red Lists data on plants in 
North, Central, and South America. 

■ When Natural History's new Behring 
Family Mammal Hall opens in 2003, the 
exhibitions will reflect contemporary 
understandings of the adaptation and 
interdependency of species. Creation of 
the Mammal Hall and renovation of the 
Rotunda, including the diorama sur- 
rounding the much-loved African ele- 
phant, is supported by a gift of $20 mil- 
lion from businessman and 
philanthropist Kenneth E. Behring. 



40 



The Behring gift will also fund programs 
that introduce museum research to 
schools throughout the United States. 
Announcing his gift to the Smithsonian, 
Mr. Behring said he was motivated by a 
wish to share his good fortune with the 
widest possible range of Americans. 

■ With the Australian Biological Re- 
sources Study and the Department of 
Environment, Canberra, the museum 
took the lead in producing The Darwin 
Declaration, a blueprint for incorporat- 
ing taxonomy — the discovery, descrip- 
tion, naming, and classification of indi- 
vidual species of plants and 

animals — into the goals of the Interna- 
tional Convention on Biological Diver- 
sity. Although this research has been 
reasonably well carried out for some 
groups, little is known about the taxon- 
omy, biology, distribution, and genetics 
of the vast majority of plant and animal 
species. The convention explains the 
importance of collections-based re- 
search to understanding the environ- 
ment and the threats it faces and out- 
lines actions to be taken to support 
taxonomic work. The convention was 
developed by leaders of key natural his- 
tory museums and research institutions, 
policy makers, hinders, and ecologists 
and conservationists during a workshop 
in February 1998 in Darwin, Australia. 
Major funding for the project was pro- 
vided by the Smithsonian, with support 
from the MacArthur Foundation, the 
Global Environment Facility, and the 
U.S. Department of the Interior. 

■ To test the theory that our earliest 
hominid ancestors evolved in response 
to sudden environmental change during 
the Pliocene epoch, paleobiologist Anna 
Behrensmeyer, codirector of the Evolu- 
tion of Terrestrial Ecosystems Consor- 
tium, and anthropologist Richard Potts, 
director of the Human Origins Program, 
and their colleagues analyzed records of 
more than 10,000 fossils from the 
Turkana Basin in Ethiopia and Kenya. 
The fossils, representing 246 species 
and spanning 4.4 million years to the 
present, showed no evidence of rapid 
evolution during the key period between 
2.8 million and 2.5 million years ago. 
The results suggest that from its earliest 
days, our genus has shown an ability to 
ada|)t to a variety of habitats. 




A Species Rediscovered 



1 



Athene blewitti, the Indian forest 
owlet, was believed to be extinct 
until National Museum of Natural 
History ornithologist Pamela 
Rasmussen, shown here examining 
an owlet specimen, and two 
colleagues found and videotaped a 
pair of the birds in east-central India, 
where at least a handful of owlets 
still live. (Photograph by Carl C. 
Hansen) 



■ Thirty undergraduate students from 
18 states and six foreign countries took 
part in the museum's 1998 Research 
Training Program. The program, 
funded by the National Science Foun- 
dation, the Smithsonian Women's 
Committee, and the museum director's 
discretionary fund, brings students 
together with staff scientists to do 
original research. 

■ Publisher and philanthropist Herbert 
Axelrod, long a supporter of the Depart- 
ment of Vertebrate Zoology's Division 
of Fishes, made a gift of $1.5 million to 
the museum to create a chair in ichthy- 
ology, the first endowed chair in the 
Smithsonian's history. Victor Springer, 
whose research has been a continuing 
interest of Axelrod's, will hold the chair 
for the initial three-year term. 



The story of ornithologist Pamela Rasmussen's 
amazing encounter with a long-lost species of owlet 
in an Indian forest combines persistent detective 
work and scientific collaboration with the euphoria 
of discovery. With two colleagues, Rasmussen 
searched for two weeks in the fall of 1 997 before 
sighting a small owl In a tree (and another, possibly 
its mate, the next day), confirming the truth of what 
they had suspected. Athene blewitti, unseen for 113 
years, was thought to be extinct, but evidence sug- 
gested that an early-20th-century amateur ornitholo- 
gist and collector had falsified information leading to 
this conclusion. 

Last summer, Rasmussen, of the National Mu- 
seum of Natural History, returned to India to launch 
a project with the Bombay Natural History Society 
to survey and study Athene blewitti. The museum's 
Office of Biodiversity Programs provided the initial 
support, and the Natural History Society is continu- 
ing the effort. The bird has been frequently misiden- 
tified, so to prevent further confusion Rasmussen 
has trained an Indian naturalist in the correct diag- 
nostic features and identification techniques. 

On her most recent trip, Rasmussen heard the 
owlet's distinctive call, which had never been de- 
scribed or documented. While videotaping the bird, 
she heard a sound that she assumed was coming 
from nearby goatherders. "Then I could see the bird 
puffing out his little white throat," she recalls. After a 
week of listening quietly in the oppressive heat, she 
finally captured the call on tape. "It was quite a thrill 
to be the first to know what it sounds like," she says. 

Rasmussen is concerned for the forest owlet's 
future in a habitat threatened by tree cutting, clear- 
ing of illegal fields, and grazing. But her Indian col- 
league has seen additional birds in the surrounding 
area and continues to search for more. The trail that 
led to Rasmussen's first sighting may yet yield more 
discoveries. 



I 

J 



41 




Rubus pernagaeus, a member of the 

cherry family documented in the 
National Museum of Natural 
History's collections, is believed to 
be extinct in its native Virginia. It is 
one of nearly 34,000 plants on the 
World Conservation Union Red List 
of Threatened Plants. (Photograph 
by Chip Clark) 



NATIONAL PORTRAIT 
GALLERY 

Alan Fern, Director 

The National Portrait Gallery is 
dedicated to the exhibition and 
study of portraits of people who 
have made significant contribu- 
tions to American history and cul- 
ture and to the study of the artists 
who created such portraiture. It 
collects, documents, and preserves 
portraits in all media as both 
historical and artistic artifacts. 



■ The exfiibition "Celebrity Caricature 
in America," called "ambitious, inge- 
nious . . . , and appealing" by Jolin 
Updike in the New York Review of Books, 
explored the vogue for stylized like- 
nesses of the famous that peaked dur- 
ing the Jazz Age. Curator Wendy Wick 
Reaves, investigating the major carica- 
turists of the era, found a treasure trove 
of unknown original drawings in pri- 
vate hands. Linking these sophisticated 
images to a new preoccupation with 
fame, as well as trends in art, theater, 
and humor, she reintroduced this 
prevalent but overlooked portrait genre 
in the exhibition and accompanying 
catalogue. The book, published by 
Yale University Press, was favorably 
reviewed in both the intellectual and 
the popular press and will soon go into 
a third printing. The exhibition will 
travel to the New York Public Library 
in 2000. It was made possible by the 
Smithsonian Institution Special Exhibi- 
tion Fund, the Smithsonian Institution 
Scholarly Studies Program, the Marpat 
Foundation, the Max and Victoria 
Dreyfus Foundation, Inc., Mrs. John 
Timberlake Gibson, The Kiplinger 
Foundation, and NationsBank. 

■ To commemorate the 50th anniver- 
sary of the Marshall Plan — the most 
successful peacetime initiative among 
nations in modern history — the 
National Portrait Gallery and the 
George C. Marshall Foundation in 
Lexington, Virginia, co-organized an 
exhibition on the life and career of 
"George C. Marshall: Soldier of Peace." 
Historian James Barber, curator of the 
exhibition, surveyed and selected por- 



1 



traits and associated memorabilia for 
presentation in the context of Mar- 
shall's fortuitous rise to the pinnacle 
of military power and chronicled his 
historic tenure as secretary of state. 
Marshall's long career of leadership was 
explored in part through his contem- 
poraries, including General John Persh- 
ing, Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt 
and Harry S. Truman, and Winston 
Churchill. The exhibition was orga- 
nized principally from the research 
collections of the George C. Marshall 
Library, the Library of Congress, the 
National Archives, and the National 
Portrait Gallery. Larry I. Bland, editor 
of ne Papers of George Catlett Marshall, 
contributed an extensive biographical 
essay to the fully illustrated color cata- 
logue. The exhibition was sponsored bj 
the Bayer Corporation Pharmaceutical 
Division. 

■ Approximately 300 acquisitions were 
added to the collections. Among them 
are two drawings of Lincoln Kirsten by 
Jamie Wyeth, a pastel drawing of James 
Baldwin by Beauford Delaney, two wa- 
tercolor sketches of Josephine Baker by 
Paul Colin, and a drawing of Ben Shahn 
by Alexander Calder. Two major be- 
quests received were David Rittenhouse 
by Charles Willson Peale and Daniel 
Webster by Francis Alexander. Other ac- 
quisition highlights included portraits 
of Edward Albee by Menden Hall, 
George Inness by G.P.A. Healy, Michael 
DeBakey by Peter E. Shapiro, a platinum 
print (ca. 1919) of Robert Frost by Doris 
Ulman, a color carbro photograph 
(1937) of Franklin Roosevelt's second 
inaugural address by Harry Warnecke, 
and a series of seven photographs of 
American composers made in 1950 by 
Naomi Savage. Conservation of 14 
sculptures in the collection was made 
possible by a generous grant from the 
Smithsonian Women's Committee. 

■ A two-day symposium, "Caricature 
and Cartoon in Twentieth-Century 
America," was sponsored with the 
Library of Congress. The symposium 
"Portraiture in the Age of Photogra- 
phy" was organized with the Victorian 
Society in America. Volume 5 of The 
Selected Papers of Charles Willson Peale 
and His Family: The Autobiography of 
Charles Willson Peale was submitted to 



42 




This image is one of three previously unknown color photographs of Marilyn 
Monroe from original 35mm Kodachrome slides made and donated to the 
National Portrait Gallery by David D. Geary. Geary, a Navy medic In Korea, 
photographed Monroe in concert in 1954 from an enviable second-row seat. 



Yale University Press, which received 
a publication subvention from the 
National Historical Publication and 
Records Commission of the National 
Archives. 

■ The newly named Center for Elec- 
tronic Research and Outreach Services 
continued to bring the gallery's collec- 
tions, programs, and exhibitions to the 
public via its award-winning Web site. 
The new collections information sys- 
tem, a joint initiative by six Smith- 
sonian museums, was successfully 
installed. The Catalog of American 
Portraits' research records and the Web 
site's collections search are botli in- 



cluded in this new database. The 
gallery responded to more than 25,000 
queries from researchers this year. 
■ Programs in conjunction with current 
exhibitions included one-person shows 
on Robert Benchley, H. L. Mencken, and 
Mathew Brady and demonstrations of 
19th-century photographic processes. 
John S. D. Eisenhower's discussion of 
Anient of Destiny: The Life iiiiil Times of 
Winfield Scott was among the many 
lunchtime lectures and book presenta- 
tions. The July series of Beatles tribute 
bands in the courtyard was sponsored 
by Time magazine, C^anon U.S.A., Inc., 
and the 1 lenley Park Hotel. 



NATIONAL POSTAL MUSEUM 

James H. Bruns, Director 

July 30 marked the fifth anniver- 
sary of the opening of the National 
Postal Museum. Founded to pre- 
serve, study, and present postal 
history and philately through its 
collection and library, the museum 
uses research, exhibits, education, 
and public programs to make this 
rich history available to a wide and 
diverse audience. Using the library 
and collections as the basis for 
their work, the museum's research 
staff has ventured into new arenas 
of postal history. Many of these 
avenues of study, such as the evo- 
lution of City Free Delivery Service 
and the introduction of the curb- 
side mailbox, were previously un- 
documented. Now, such voids are 
being gradually filled through the 
use of the collections, contempo- 
rary accounts, commercial jour- 
nals, and available government 
documents. 

■ Research by the museum's curatorial 
staff resulted in four new scholarly 
publications: Great American Post 
Offices, an architectural guide to post 
office buildings since 1760; Motorized 
Mail, an illustrated history of the devel- 
opment of postal vehicles since 1899; 
Turk Bird, the life of airmail pilot Ed- 
ward Van Buren Gardner; and Reaching 
Rural America, the history of Rural Free 
Delivery. The staff continues to study 
an array of postal history and philatelic 
topics, and two more books are slated 
for release in 1999. 

■ Members of the museum's Council of 
Philatelists, a group of renowned stamp 
experts from around the world who ad- 
vise the museum on philatelic matters, 
began researching and writing on the 
manuscript for a three-volume history 
of the production of United States 
postage stamps. The first of the vol- 
umes will be published next year. 

■ A new, full-color Illustrated Guide to the 
National Postiil Museum helps \'isitors to 
explore tlie museum's six |iriniar\' gal- 
leries. Text ami photographs introduce 



43 



the most popular artifacts on display. 

■ The museum established an annual 
fellowship award program to encourage 
and advance the study of postal his- 
tory. The fellowship will be awarded to 
one graduate or predoctoral student 
each year. 

■ The museum's Education Department 
introduced a new series of "Classroom 
in a Can" activity kits for youngsters in 
grades four through six. The first kit 
focuses on the development of written 
communication and highlights the use 
of cuneiform characters. Presented in 
containers that look like paint cans, the 
instructional packages allow students to 
work individually or as part of a group 
to explore the past. Future themes in- 
clude colonial letter writing, calligraphy, 
and papermaking. The production and 
distribution of these kits were made 
possible through grants from the U.S. 
Postal Service and the Envelope Manu- 
facturers Association Foundation. 

■ In April, the museum launched its 
new Web site, www.si.edu/postal, which 
offers information on exhibits, public 
programs, and publications. In the first 
six months, 39,803 people visited the 
site. Also featured in the Web presenta- 




Celebrating the National Postal 
Museum's fifth birthday on July 30 
was serious work, especially for this 
youngster, who created a 
personalized bookmark using 
stamps. (Photograph by Richard 
Strauss) 



tion are the 75 winners of the 1998 
"Graceful Envelope" contest, out- 
standing examples of hand-illustrated 
envelopes mailed to the museum by 
calligraphers from around the world. 



NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

Michael H. Robinson, Director 

The Smithsonian's National Zoo 
was established in 1889 by an act 
of Congress "for the advancement 
of science and the instruction and 
recreation of the people." Even as 
the Zoo undergoes a metamorpho- 
sis into a biopark, encompassing a 
holistic view of all life, its mission 
is unchanged. Research and educa- 
tion continue to be central to its 
existence. 

■ At the invitation of Chinese col- 
leagues, David Wildt, JoGayle Howard, 
and other Conservation and Research 
Center scientists are participating in 
the development of a genetic manage- 
ment plan for 100 pandas living in 
Chinese zoos, China's first such pro- 
gram for any species of animal. As the 
initial step, Wildt and Howard helped 
conduct the first biomedical survey of 
Chinese giant pandas. Using this 
information, the Chinese will be able 
to identify animals most likely to con- 
tribute to successful breeding programs. 

■ As a result of their basic research on 
foraging and habitat needs of New 
World migratory birds, Russ Greenberg 
and researchers at the Migratory Bird 
Center (MBC) in the Zoo's Department 
of Zoological Research developed a 
strategy to encourage Central American 
farmers to use traditional coffee-growing 
methods that help preserve migratory 
bird habitats. As a result of this effort, 
the MBC, the National Audubon Soci- 
ety, and the Eco Organic Coffee Com- 
pany have joined to market bird- 
friendly coffee. In November 1997, 
Cafe Audubon, certified by indepen- 
dent inspectors as "shade-grown or- 
ganic coffee," went on sale at the Na- 
tional Zoo, Fresh Fields, and other 
stores throughout the Washington, 



D.C., area. Profits will be used to |J 

advance conservation education, 

■ Since 1991, Zoo researchers headed 
by animal nutritionists Olav Oftedal 
and Mary Allen have collaborated witi 
the Bureau of Land Management to 
study the feeding behavior of endan 
gered desert tortoises in Nevada. Be- 
tween 1991 and 1997, the tortoises fee 
on 127 species of plants. But in 1998, 
an El Niflo year, the tortoises grazed on 
an additional 103 plant species, some , 
of which might contain rare but essen 
tial nutrients. For desert tortoises, 
which live from 50 to 100 years, plant 
that appear only during unusually wel 
years might be critical for normal 
development and reproduction. Only 
long-term studies can reveal such 
relationships. 

■ Shortly after World War II, the browi 
tree snake {Boiga irregularis) was acci- 
dentally introduced on the previously 
snake-free island of Guam. The lack oi 
predators and other factors that woulc 
normally constrain population explo- 
sions allowed the brown tree snake to 
achieve densities as high as 20,000 
per square mile. As a result, many of 
Guam's native bird species became 
extinct. Accidental transportation of 
the snakes from Guam poses a constant 
threat to other snake-free islands such! 
as Hawaii, with its fragile and endan- 
gered bird population. In his research. 
Zoo pathologist Don Nichols has found 
an especially promising strain of a 
snake-specific virus that could be used 
as a biological control to reduce or 
eradicate Guam's brown tree snake 
population. 

■ In the new exhibit "Great Cats," visi- 
tors experience the endangered lions 
and tigers in an exciting learning ad- 
venture and gain an appreciation for 
the tenuous future of these animals in 
their wild habitat. "Tiger Tracks," an 
interactive learning area, invites com- 
parisons between young tigers and 
young humans. Graphics throughout 
the exhibit feature Smithsonian scien- 
tists who are working to understand 
and help great cats survive. 

■ Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ) 
supported the Zoo with more than $1.6 
million from its concessions, $600,000 
from fund-raising efforts such as Na- 



44 




A Micronesian kingfisher chick 

hatched at the National Zoo on July 

3, 1998. The wild population of this 

species, found on Guam, has been 

eliminated by the brown tree snake. 

Zoo pathologist Don Nichols is 

studying viruses that could be used 

as biological control agents to 

'reduce the snake's population and 

help Guam's endangered birds 

regain a foothold. (Photograph by 

Jessie Cohen) 
1 



tional ZooFari and the Wildlife Arts 
Festival, and nearly 81,000 hours of 
volunteer service. This support helped 
the Zoo to complete "Great Cats" and 
funded diverse research and conserva- 
tion projects. FONZ continued its focus 
on conservation education programs, 
adding six new curriculum guides for 
teachers and a new exhibit interpreta- 
tion program for Zoo visitors. FONZ 
also prepared for a capital campaign to 
expand the Zoo's ability to offer con- 
servation education to audiences lo- 
cally and around the world. 



SMITHSONIAN 

ASTROPHYSICAL 

OBSERVATORY 

Irwin I. Shapiro, Director 

Headquartered in Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, the Smithsonian 
Astrophyslcal Observatory (SAO) 
is joined in a partnership with 
the Harvard College Observatory 
to form the Harvard-Smithsonian 
Center for Astrophysics, where 
more than 300 scientists are 
engaged in a broad program of 
research in astronomy, astro- 
physics. Earth and space sciences, 
and science education. 

■ Peering halfway across the universe 
to analyze light from exploded stars 
that died long ago, a team including 
SAO and Harvard astronomers has in- 
ferred that the cosmos will expand for- 
ever. Using the Hubble Space Telescope, 
these scientists found that there is too 
little matter in the universe to halt its 
expansion, and thus the universe 
should continue to balloon outward. 
Even more dramatic, the data suggest 
that expansion is actually accelerating. 
If confirmed by further observations, 
this result would revolutionize cos- 
mology and even fundamental physics. 

■ The prototype antenna for the sub- 
millimeter array (SMA) of telescopes 
made its first astronomical observa- 
tion — of the waning moon — on Janu- 
ary 23, 1998, from its test and assembly 
site in Westford, Massachusetts. The ar- 
ray's eight 6-meter-diameter (236-inch) 
antennas will be installed at a site near 
the summit of Mauna Kea, Hawaii, 
where they will be used to observe 
celestial objects emitting submillimeter 
radiation, a band of the electromag- 
netic spectrum now relatively unex- 
plored from Earth. The SMA is a joint 
project of SAO and Taiwan's Institute 
of Astronomy and Astrophysics. 

■ Astronomers have long suspected 
that a black hole lurks at the center of 
our Milky Way galaxy. Now, using the 
high-resolution capability of the very 
long baseline array (VLBA) of radio 
telescopes to track the movements of 
matter around the galactic center, sci- 
entists at SAO and tlieir colleagues else- 
where have inferred that a black hole, 



An Au^ard for Amateur Comet Hunters * 

A new annual award, designed to encourage and 
promote cometary astronomy, will honor amateur 
astronomers who discover new comets. The Edgar J 
Wilson Award, named for a late Kentucky business- " 
man with a love for the heavens, will provide as 
much as $20,000 annually to be distributed among 
eligible discoverers. The award will be administered 
by the Smithsonian Astrophyslcal Observatory 
(SAO) through the Central Bureau of Astronomical 
Telegrams, which has served for 75 years as the 
clearinghouse for the announcement and naming of I 
all new comets and which is operated by SAO for I 
the International Astronomical Union. 

An observer who finds a new comet must make 
sure that the discovery report reaches the Central 
Bureau of Astronomical Telegrams according to 
established procedures. The discovery must be ^ 
made by an amateur astronomer using only ama- 
teur, privately owned equipment. Every discoverer 
whose name Is officially assigned to a comet quali- 
fies for a portion of the prize money. The more 
comets that a person finds during any year, the 
greater the share of the prize money that he or 
she receives. 

Discovering a comet is a thrilling and relatively 
unusual accomplishment. For every real discovery, 
there may be five unconfirmed or erroneous reports. 
Through Edgar Wilson's generosity, SAO can en- 
courage greater understanding of this fascinating 
pursuit. 



with a mass of 3 million suns, anchors 
the heart of the Milky Way. 
■ High-resolution images of the Sun's 
inner atmosphere returned by the 
National Aeronautics and Space Admin- 
istration's Transition Region and Coro- 
nal Explorer (TRACE) spacecraft are 
dramatically changing theories about 
the "transition region" of the Sun's at- 
mosphere. This narrow zone exists be- 
tween the relatively cool surface, where 
temperatures are about 6,000 degrees 
Celsius, and the extremely hot outer at- 
mosphere, or corona, where tempera- 
tures may reach 3 million degrees Cel- 
sius. With special mirrors designed by 
SAO scientists and instruments sensitive 
to extreme-ultraviolet wavelengths of 
light, TRACE is studying the previously 
unseen connections between surface 
features of the Sun and the overlying 



45 




Thin threads of broiling plasma can be seen shooting out of magnetic hot 
spots on the face of the Sun and looping through the lower atmosphere 
before crashing back onto Its surface. This high-resolution extreme- 
ultraviolet Image Is typical of the fine-scale features seen in the Sun's inner 
corona by Smithsonian scientists observing with NASA's TRACE spacecraft. 
(NASA/TRACE photograph) 



and constantly changing atmospheric 
layers of hot, ionized gas, called plasma. 

■ A team of astronomers including 
scientists at SAO discovered a disk of 
gas and dust around a nearby star that 
may be forming — or may have already 
formed — planets. This proto-planetary 
disk, about three times the diameter of 
Pluto's orbit around the Sun, surrounds 
a star roughly 220 light-years from 
Earth. The discovery was made with a 
telescope in Chile at about the same 
time as an independent discovery was 
made by another team using a tele- 
scope in Hawaii. 

■ In July, staff from the Multiple Mirror 
Telescope (MMT) Observatory, jointly 
operated by the Smithsonian Institution 
and the University of Arizona, moved 
the new MMT 6.5-meter-diameter (256- 
inch) primary mirror from the univer- 
sity's Mirror Lab to the Smithsonian's 



Whipple Observatory base camp. Then, 
in a separate operation in early August, 
the cell that will support the 10-ton 
borosilicate honeycomb mirror in the 
telescope was successfully transported 
and installed in the telescope building. 
The MMT, which had an array of six 
1.8-meter (72-inch) mirrors until last 
February, is being converted to a single 
6.5-meter telescope. 



SMITHSONIAN CENTER FOR 
LATINO INITIATIVES 

Refugio I. Rochi'n, Director 

The Latino/Hispanic tradition in 
what is now the United States is 
almost 500 years old. Latinos are 
10 percent of the U.S. population 
and will soon become the nation's 
largest minority. They have been 



protagonists of American history 
and active contributors to Ameri- 
can culture for many generations.! 
In 1997, the Smithsonian Board or 
Regents created a Center for Latino 
Initiatives to advance knowledge 
and understanding of Latino con^ 
tributions to U.S. science, history, 
culture, and society. Refugio I. 
Rochin, a leading scholar who wa 
director of the Julian Samora Re- 
search Institute at Michigan State 
University, became the founding 
director of the Smithsonian Center 
for Latino Initiatives in August 
1998. Miguel A. Bretos, formerly 
counselor to the Secretary for co 
munity affairs and special project: 
was appointed a senior scholar at 
the center. The center will build on 
the achievements in Latino-related 
acquisitions, research, and pro- 
grams made by the Smithsonian 
since 1994 and will manage the 
Latino Initiatives Fund. 



■ The new center's vision was shaped 
by extensive dialogue, conferences, and 
collaboration among educators, schol- 
ars, and community leaders, as well as 
museums, universities, cultural organi 
zations, and public institutions. The 
center will work with Smithsonian 
museums, research institutes, and 
offices to identify Latino-related re- 
sources, provide training and research 
opportunities, develop exhibitions ana 
public programs, and create an inno- ^ 
vative online capability that reaches 
schools, communities, and the public. 

■ In September 1998, the center 
opened the first of a series of planned 
exhibitions. "Beyond the Maine: Imag- 
ing the New Empire" was created in 
collaboration with the National 
Anthropological Archives, National 
Museum of Natural History, and cu- 
rated by Miguel A. Bretos, Jake Homiak, 
and Laura Larco of the Smithsonian 
and Milagros Flores Roman of the Na- 
tional Park Service. The exhibition was 
shown at the Smithsonian's S. Dillon 
Ripley Center in Washington, D.C.; 
Miami and Key West, Florida; San Juan, 
Puerto Rico; and Madison, Wisconsin. 



46 



SMITHSONIAN CENTER FOR 
MATERIALS RESEARCH AND 
EDUCATION 

: Lambertus van Zelst, Director 

Research at the Smithsonian Cen- 
ter for Materials Research and Edu- 
cation (SCMRE) spans an interdis- 
ciplinary area that unites the 
natural and physical sciences with 
the arts and humanities. Studying 
objects from artistic, historic, and 
scientific collections, as well as re- 
lated materials, scientists at the 

1 center use a wide variety of analyti- 
cal and examination techniques to 
add to the contextual information 

• for these objects or to improve the 
preservation and conservation of 
Smithsonian collections. 

I ■ Characterization of archaeological 
ceramics through chemical elemental 
analysis is used to study where these 
objects were made, enabling conclu- 
sions to be drawn about trade and ex- 
change relationships. Using instrumen- 
tal neutron activation analysis, SCMRE 

: researchers study pottery from the im- 
portant Maya site of Calakmul and 
from the northern Mexican center of 
Paquime (Casa Grandes). Their goal is 
to better understand the social and po- 
litical organization of these dominant 
centers, their relationship to other sites 
in the region, and changes in these re- 
lationships over time. Similar studies 

: are performed on materials from the 
royal city of Gordion in Turkey to in- 
vestigate changes in pottery produc- 
tion between 11 50 and 700 B.C. 

IB To examine the usefulness of natural 
history collections as sources of genetic 
information, SCMRE researchers have 
studied the DNA recovered from sam- 
ples of fishes stored in liquid preserva- 
tives at a number of museums in the 
United States and abroad. Samples 

, from collections dating to before 1900, 
which have been maintained in alco- 
hol solutions, were found to be suitable 
for DNA analysis, thus enabling genetic 
studies of many endangered or extinct 
organisms from museum collections. 

, Specimens preserved in the fixative 
formaldehyde, introduced around 



1900, are less valuable for molecular 
genetic studies. SCMRE's research has 
yielded suggestions for changes in this 
preservation technique that would im- 
prove the viability of newly collected 
specimens for such studies. 

■ SCMRE staff study the physical chem- 
istry of Chinese celadon glazes to in- 
vestigate how crystal growth during 
the firing and cooling of high-tempera- 
ture kilns affects the jadelike visual 
effects of these highly prized objects. 
The composition and microstructure 
of similar pottery from Korea, Japan, 
Thailand, Vietnam, and Burma are also 
studied to understand how craftspeople 
from those countries were able to cre- 
ate their own distinctive celadon wares. 

■ The search for disease exposure and 
spread in the archaeological record has 
generally relied on the study of struc- 
tural changes in skeletal remains. Mo- 
lecular techniques involving DNA 
analyses have only recently been used 
in this type of research. Using a com- 
bination of protein and DNA analyses, 
SCMRE researchers positively identified 
T. pallidum, the causative agent for 
venereal syphilis, in an archaeological 
skeleton from Easter Island. 

■ The importance of maintaining ap- 
propriate levels of temperature and 
relative humidity for the optimal 
preservation of museum collections 
has long been recognized, but museum 
scientists have had a mostly qualitative 
understanding of this relationship. Fol- 
lowing a variety of approaches, includ- 
ing the study of mechanical properties 
and chemical characteristics of many 
materials, SCMRE researchers are de- 
veloping a better quantitative under- 
standing of the influence of these en- 
vironmental factors on the long-term 
stability of collections. These continu- 
ing studies have already resulted in 
several concrete recommendations for 
the storage of specific materials. 

■ SCMRE's ongoing efforts to establish 
a center of excellence for optical mi- 
croscopy not only enrich the center's 
educational programs but also allow 
this expertise to be brought to bear on 
a variety of research projects. Scientists 
have used optical microscopy to iden- 
tify fragmentary materials retrieved at 
the current excavations of the tomb of 




Using an electric rotary burr, senior 
research archaeologist Ronald 
Bishop removes a small sample 
from the base of a classic Maya 
polychrome vessel for elemental 
analysis as part of a ceramic 
provenance study by the 
Smithsonian Center for Materials 
Research and Education. 
(Photograph by Dorie Reents-Budet) 



ruler 10 in Copan, Honduras, including 
a species of marine organism. This 
technology is also being applied to the 
ongoing work on an atlas of wood spe- 
cies used by Puerto Rican artists for the 
carving of santos, polychrome wooden 
objects of veneration art produced for 
household use. 



47 



SERC's Efforts Control 
Invading Organisms 

The broad-scale biological invasion of our ecosys- 
tems by non-native species Is having serious eco- 
logical and economic impacts. At the Smithsonian 
Environmental Research Center (SERC), scientists 
In the Invasion Biology Program lead national and 
international research on biological invasions of 
coastal ecosystems. The program, headed by 
Gregory Ruiz and Anson Hines, is the largest group 
in the United States to study patterns and Impacts 
of marine and estuarine invasions while seeking 
strategies to limit them. 

Ballast water of commercial ships is currently the 
greatest source of coastal species introductions, 
releasing larval stages and other planktonic organ- 
isms from distant ports that are able to colonize new 
bays and estuaries. SERC researchers measure the 
transfer of planktonic organisms in ships' ballast 
water and their ability to colonize the Chesapeake 
Bay, as well as sites in Alaska, Florida, and else- 
where around the world. SERC scientists have also 
been conducting experiments aboard oil tankers on 
oceanic voyages from California to Alaska to test 
the effectiveness of ballast water management in 
reducing unwanted transfer of organisms. SERC's 
research in the Chesapeake Bay now provides the 
most comprehensive assessment of coastal inva- 
sions for any region of the nation, including an inten- 
sive analysis of the 400-year history of species 
introductions, delivery patterns and biological char- 
acteristics of ballast water, and ecological impacts 
of alien species. 

The Invasion Biology Program involves extensive 
collaboration, most recently with the U.S. Coast 
Guard to establish the National Ballast Water Infor- 
mation Clearinghouse at SERC. As an integral part 
of the national effort to prevent and control coastal 
invasions, the clearinghouse will measure the 
changing patterns of ballast water delivery and man- 
agement by ships arriving in all U.S. ports from over- 
seas. SERC scientists synthesize the national data 
on delivery patterns and determine their changes on 
invasions by alien species in coastal ecosystems. 



SMITHSONIAN 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
RESEARCH CENTER 

Ross Simons, Director 

The Smithsonian Environmental 
Research Center (SERC) advances 
stewardship of the biosphere 
through interdisciplinary research 
and education. SERC's home 
research site on the shore of 
Chesapeake Bay provides unique 
opportunities to study a variety of 
interconnected ecosystems, but 
SERC research also extends to 
places around the globe. SERC's 
educational programs reach 
schoolchildren, teachers, the 
general public, and environmental 
scientists-in-training. 

■ A 20-year study of an old-growth for- 
est at SERC is providing a unique per- 
spective on the effects of air pollution 
that threaten forests throughout the 
world. Air pollution has saturated some 
forests in Europe and North America 
with nitrogen, causing forest damage 
and increased nitrogen in stream water. 
In contrast, the SERC forest has not yet 



become saturated and still retains 85 
percent of the total nitrogen and. 97 
percent of the inorganic nitrogen it 
receives from the atmosphere. 

■ One of the biggest environmental 
problems of Chesapeake Bay is overen^ 
richment with nutrients, especially ni 
trogen and phosphorus. SERC research 
has shown that nitrogen discharge 
from the bay watershed strongly relates 
to agricultural land use, while phos- 
phorus discharge relates to sediment 
transport. Agriculture has a stronger 
effect in the Piedmont area than in the 
Coastal Plain because of differences in 
the dominant pathways of water flow. 

■ SERC scientists have demonstrated 
that streamside forests and restored 
wetlands can reduce nutrient runoff 
into Chesapeake Bay. Mathematical 
models developed at SERC have quant 
tied the importance of the spatial dis- 
tribution of streamside forests within 
landscapes. Measurements of nutrient 
flow through restored wetlands show 
that wetlands can retain nutrients in 
runoff from agricultural fields while 
providing wildlife habitats. 

■ Nutrient enrichment of coastal 
waters causes population explosions 
(blooms) of phytoplankton, sometime 
with harmful effects on fisheries and 



Smithsonian Environmental 
Research Center technician Jay 
O'Neill samples decomposing 
leaves in a study of nutrient cycling 
in a dwarf mangrove forest in Belize. 
(Photograph by Dennis Whigham) 




48 



human health. SERC research has 
shown that some bloom-forming or- 
ganisms undergo population crashes 
when infected with specific micropara- 
sites. These parasites may someday pro- 
vide a means of controlling blooms. 
SERC is also collaborating with other 
institutions to find ways to detect and 
quantify the toxic plankton organism 
Pfiesteria, which can kill fish and poi- 
son humans who come in contact with 
infested waters. 

■ Excess nutrients in tropical waters 
may be absorbed by mangrove forests, 
the dominant coastal wetlands of the 
tropics. A SERC study recently found 
that lack of phosphorus often limits 
mangrove production and contributes 
to the widespread occurrence of dwarf 
mangrove forests in the neotropics. 
The study also showed that wood- 
boring insects are an important part 
of the mangrove food web and that 
increasing nutrient availability can 
increase specialized herbivory. 

■ One aspect of SERC's global change 
research focuses on polar ecosystems 
threatened by ultraviolet light (UV-B) 
passing through holes in the strato- 
spheric ozone layer. In Antarctica, a 
SERC-developed instrument measured 
increases in UV-B while an ozone hole 
passed overhead, and SERC scientists 
tracked the changing sensitivity of 
Antarctic phytoplankton to the spring- 
time increase in UV-B. Another SERC 
study found changes in the light re- 
flectance of Antarctic moss, possibly 
due to production of UV-B protective 
pigments. To study the UV-B sensitivity 
of Arctic kelps, SERC scientists have 
developed a new method of measuring 
photosynthesis using a stable isotope 
of carbon. 

■ SERC is running two long-term field 
experiments to discover the effects of 
projected increases in atmospheric 
carbon dioxide. In a Florida scrub-oak 
forest, increased carbon dioxide has in- 
c reased water-use efficiency, nitrogen 
fixation, and carbon assimilation. In a 
Maryland salt marsh, a decade of expo- 
sure to increased carbon dioxide has 
laused persistent increases in carbon 
issimilation. A new study is now inves- 
tisaling the fate of the extra carbon 

^ iissiinilated. 



SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL 
RESEARCH INSTITUTE 

Ira Rubinoff, Director 

The tropics are home to the 
greatest diversity of organisms on 
Earth, many of which developed 
very complex interactions over 
millions of years. Research on the 
ecology, evolution, and behavior 
of tropical organisms is the pri- 
mary mission of the Smithsonian 
Tropical Research Institute (STRI), 
based in the Republic of Panama. 
STRI supports 35 permanent scien- 
tists and hundreds of visiting sci- 
entists and students from around 
the world who each year work at 
its terrestrial and marine research 
facilities. This year brought several 
important changes, opportunities, 
and accomplishments for STRl's 
research program. 

■ On April 23, Barro Colorado Island, 
the Smithsonian's oldest field station in 
the New World tropics dedicated to 
biological research, celebrated its 75th 
anniversary. There are now more than 
1,500 publications resulting from re- 
search on the island. 



■ STRI acquired a new site for a field 
station in Bocas del Toro on the 
Caribbean coast of Panama and initi- 
ated plans to construct a research and 
educational outreach center. This site 
will replace the one in the San Bias Is- 
lands, whose contract ended this year. 

■ The Center for Tropical Forest Science 
(CTFS), a collaborative research project 
among STRI, Princeton and Harvard 
Universities, and numerous interna- 
tional partners, held a meeting in Wash- 
ington, D.C., from July 30 to August 2. 
Researchers from 1 1 countries working 
at the 13 forest dynamics sites presented 
their results to other network members 
and developed collaborative projects. 

■ In collaboration with the Brookhaven 
National Institute, McGill University, 
Princeton University, and the Universi- 
dad Santa Maria La Antigua, STRI 
started construction of the first Free Air 

Led by Smithsonian Tropical 
Research Institute staff scientist 
Eldredge Birmingham, Ascanio 
Castillo from Panama, Guy Reeves 
from the United Kingdom, and Ana 
Isabel Perdices from Spain collect 
fish in the Chame River as part of a 
study of freshwater fishes and the 
historical biogeography of Panama. 
(Photograph by Marcos A. Guerra) 




Carbon Dioxide Enrichment Project 
(FACE) in the tropics. This project, 
funded by the U.S. Department of En- 
ergy, aims to establish the scientific 
foundation for understanding the con- 
sequences of increasing emissions of at- 
mospheric carbon dioxide on the 
growth of tropical forests. 
■ Two important compendiums that 
included numerous publications based 
on research by STRI scientists were 
published this year: Proceedings of the 



8th International Coral Reef Congress, 
edited by Harilaos A. Lessios of STRI 
and Ian G. Macintyre of the National 
Museum of Natural History, and Marine- 
Terrestrial Flora and Fauna ofCayos 
Cochinos Archipelago, edited by Hector 
M. Guzman of STRI. 
■ Books by STRI authors published this 
year dealt with a broad range of sub- 
jects, including the social regulation of 
competition and aggression in animals 
(by the late Martin H. Moynihan); the 



EDUCATION, MUSEUM, AND SCHOLARLY SERVICES 



CENTER FOR MUSEUM 
STUDIES 

Using the extensive cultural, 
archival, historical, and profes- 
sional resources of the Smith- 
sonian, the Center for Museum 
Studies facilitates research and 
learning about museum theory and 
practice. Major collaborative efforts 
were among the year's highlights. 
In collaboration with the Inter- 
University Program for Latino Re- 
search, the center developed a 
three-year Rockefeller Humanities 
Fellowship Program for scholars 
and museum professionals. 



"Latino Cultural Research in a 
National Museum Context: Issues 
of Representation and Interpreta- 
tion." The interdisciplinary fellow- 
ships will support Latino- and 
Latina-focused scholarship using 
Smithsonian resources. Projects 
will link art and the politics of 
public display, encompass ad- 
vanced research, and contribute 
much-needed Latino perspectives 
and interpretations to Smith- 
sonian collections. 

Another collaborative effort is 
designed as a model for using mu- 
seum resources to strengthen com- 




A seminar cosponsored by the Center for Museum Studies and the Program 
for Asian Pacific American Studies focused on "Diversity, Leadership and 
Museums: The Representation of Asian Pacific American Communities." 
(Photograph by Magdalena Mieri and Stacey Suyat) 



natural and cultural history of Central 
America (edited by Anthony G. Coates 
of STRI); the origins of agriculture in the 
lowland neotropics (by Dolores Piperno 
of STRI and Deborah Pearsal); the his- 
tory, economy, and land use of the Pe- 
ruvian Amazonia (by Fernando Santos 
Granero of STRI and Federica Barclay); 
naturalists of Panama (by Stanley 
Heckadon-Moreno of STRI); and meth- 
ods and results from tropical forest cen 
sus plots (by Richard Condit of STRI) 



1 

i 



I 



munity college-level teaching in I 
the humanities. With Montgomei^ 
College, Rockville, Maryland, the 
center is developing a range of 
scholarly and community-focuse^ 
activities, including an annual fac- 
ulty seminar led by a Smithsonian 
scholar-in-residence; museum- J 
based faculty research fellowships;' 
student internships at the Smith- 
sonian; public lectures and sym- 
posia; and an enhanced Humani- 
ties Honors Program. The National 
Endowment for the Humanities | 
awarded Montgomery College a 
$500,000 challenge grant for the i 
program. 

An example of the center's pro- 
grams for museum professionals 
was "Diversity, Leadership, and 
Museums: The Representation of 
Asian Pacific American Communi 
ties," cosponsored with the Pro- 
gram for Asian Pacific American 
Studies and held at the Japanese 
American National Museum. The 
seminar explored diversity issues 
in museums, examined current is- 
sues affecting Asian Pacific Ameri- 
cans in the museum profession, 
and emphasized problem-solving 
strategies, team-building tech- 
niques, and communication skills. 
Faculty included director Irene Hi- 
rano and curator Akemi Kikumura 
from the museum and Marshall 
Wong, art initiative director at the 



50 



Los Angeles County Museum of 
Art. Participants represented mu- 
seums and cultural institutions in 
California, the District of Colum- 
bia, Hawaii, New York, and 
Washington. 

Other professional training pro- 
grams included three conservation 
and exhibition development work- 
shops held in Argentina in collabo- 
ration with the Fundacion Antor- 
chas and the University of Buenos 
Aires. Smithsonian specialists and 
local conservators served as faculty. 

NATIONAL SCIENCE 
RESOURCES CENTER 

The National Science Resources 
Center (NSRC), operated jointly by 
the Smithsonian Institution and 
the National Academy of Sciences, 
works to improve the teaching of 
science in the nation's elementary 
and secondary schools. The NSRC 




Seventh-graders at Tllden Middle 
School In Rockvllle, Maryland, 
simulate the double-pump action of 
the heart during the trial teaching of 
the National Science Resources 
Center's Science and Technology 
Concepts for Middle Schools 
module Human Body Systems. 
photograph by Henry U. Milne) 



collects and publishes information 
about current teaching resources, 
develops innovative, inquiry- 
based curriculum materials, and 
sponsors activities to help teachers 
and administrators develop and 
sustain effective hands-on science 
programs. 

During fiscal year 1998, the 
NSRC initiated four modules in its 
new Science and Technology Con- 
cepts for Middle Schools (STC/MS) 
program. This curriculum comple- 
ments the recently completed ele- 
mentary science program. Science 
and Technology for Children, 
which is used in thousands of 
classrooms. The NSRC also 
launched the Leadership and Assis- 
tance for Science Education Re- 
form (LASER) initiative to improve 
science education in school dis- 
tricts across the country. In each 
of eight regions, the NSRC has 
established partnerships with cor- 
porations, foundations, academic 
institutions, museums, and state 
education departments to work 
with local school districts. Both 
STC/MS and LASER have received 
significant support from the 
National Science Foundation, 
major corporations, and private 
foundations. 

Other important achievements 
include the publication of Re- 
sources for Teaching Middle School 
Science, which describes more than 
400 middle school science cur- 
ricula and provides information 
on supplementary resources for ed- 
ucators and students. A compan- 
ion volume. Resources for Teaching 
Elementary School Science, was pub- 
lished by the NSRC in 1996. Also 
during this fiscal year, the NSRC 
and the National Academy of Sci- 
ences negotiated an agreement 
with the Royal Swedish Academy 
of Sciences to translate and adapt 
STC curriculum materials for use 
in elementary schools in Sweden. 



Cross-Cultural Collaboration 

In an exciting collaboration between cultures, 
Masahiro Nomoto, an Ainu sculptor and exhibits 
specialist from the Ainu Museum in Shiraoi, Japan, 
worked with staff in the Office of Exhibits Central 
this year as they prepared for the National Museum 
of Natural History's exhibition "Ainu: Spirit of a North- 
ern People," which opens in 1999. Known for their 
maritime trading and reliance on hunting, fishing, and 
gathering, the Ainu are the Indigenous people of 
Japan. 

During his six-month stay in the United States, | 
Nomoto was responsible for, among other things, 
carving a 10-foot, 1 to 5 scale model of a traditional 
Ainu ocean canoe (as measured by Smithsonian 
anthropologist Roman Hitchcock in 1888) from a 
two-ton yellow cedar log. The original diorama 
design had only half of the boat emerging from an 
ocean backdrop. When the idea was presented to 
Ainu elders, they objected, saying kamuy {god) 
would not be happy occupying only part of the boat. 
The design was then changed to Incorporate the 
entire canoe. At various stages during the canoe 
project, Nomoto, assisted by co-curator Chisato 
(Kitty) Dubreuil of the museum's Arctic Studies 
Center, performed ceremonies involving traditional 
costumes, objects, fire and wood smoke, and sake. 

Other aspects of the Office of Exhibits Central's 
work on the exhibition are the re-creation of a life- 
size version of an Ainu traditional house (chlse) and 
a diorama consisting of four mannequins of Ainu 
elders performing the Ainu bear ceremony 
(lyomate), the most sacred ceremony in the Ainu 
pantheon. The entire project has been a rare oppor- 
tunity to share traditional and modern methods of 
exhibit production. 



OFFICE OF EXHIBITS 
CENTRAL 

As one of the Smithsonian's largest 
and most comprehensive exhibit 
producers, the Office of Exhibits 
Central (OEC) provides high-quality 
products and services to nearly 
every museum, office, and research 
program. This year, OEC per- 
formed consulting, design, editing, 
graphics, modelmaking, fabrica- 
tion, crating, and installation ser- 
vices for about two dozen Smith- 
sonian clients and affiliates. 



51 




The Office of Exhibits Central's IVlodel Shop team poses with a rendering 
and components of the tiger habitat diorama at the National Museum of 
Natural History's Mammal Hall. Clockwise from top nght: taxidermist John 
Matthews and modelmakers Carol Reuter, CarolAnne Otto, Danny Fielding, 
and Carolyn Thome. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley) 



Among the year's highlights were 
"Between a Rock and a Hard Place: 
A History of American Sweatshops, 
1820-Present" for the National 
Museum of American History; "The 
Jewels of Lalique" for the Interna- 
tional Gallery; "The Art of Jack 



Delano/El Arte de Jack Delano" for 
the International Gallery and the 
Smithsonian Institution Traveling 
Exhibition Service (SITES); "We 
Shall Overcome: Photographs from 
America's Civil Rights Era" and 
"Going Strong: Older Americans on 



ini 



the Job" for SITES; a small-format 
version of "The Jazz Age in Paris, 
1914-1940" for circulation by SITES 
and the American Library Associa 
tion; and "Porno Indian Basket 
Weavers" for the National Museu: 
of Natural History. 

Consulting services are a growing 
and important component of 
OEC's work with Smithsonian 
clients, affiliates, and outside orga 
nizations. This year, for example, 
OEC provided conceptual design 
services for small-scale traveling 
components related to the renova- 
tion of the National Museum of 
Natural History's Mammal Hall and 
consulted on the design of an exhi- 
bition on the Bisbee copper mines 
and mineralogy with Arizona's 
Bisbee Mining and Historical 
Museum, a Smithsonian affiliate. 

Among the most visible projects 
for OEC's Model Shop this year 
were Jabba the Hutt's cave palace, 
the centerpiece of "Star Wars: The 
Magic of Myth" at the National Air 
and Space Museum; mannequins, 
trees, artificial food, and the taxi- 
dermy of a life-size buffalo for the 
National Museum of American His- 
tory's "Communities in a Chang- 
ing Nation," opening in 1999; and 
various projects for "Ainu: Spirit of 
a Northern People," opening at the 
National Museum of Natural His- 
tory in 1999. 

By offering an expanded range 
of services, OEC's fabrication shop 
has enabled organizations within 
and outside the Smithsonian to 
mount exhibitions that might oth- 
erwise not be economically feasible. 
Examples include a temporary 
exhibition on Filipino Americans 
organized by Honolulu's Bishop 
Museum and on view at the U.S. 
Department of State, and "Beyond 
the Maine: Imaging the New Em- 
pire," a National Anthropological 
Archives exhibition at the S. Dillon 
Ripley Center. 



52 



OFFICE OF FELLOWSHIPS 
AND GRANTS 

« 

Support from the Office of Fellow- 
ships and Grants (OFG) enhances 
the quality, quantity, and diversity 
of research conducted at the 
Smithsonian. Each year, nearly 800 
students and scholars come from 
universities, museums, and re- 
search institutes throughout the 
United States and abroad to use 
the Institution's collections and fa- 
cilities. OFG manages centralized 
competitive internship and fellow- 
ship programs, as well as programs 
that support Smithsonian staff re- 
search. This office also administers 
all fellowship awards offered by 
the Institution. 

This year, for example, Clara E. 
Rodriguez of Fordham University 
did research on Latino images in 
the media, working at the National 
Museum of American History with 
Fath Davis Ruffins, historian in the 
_ Archives Center. Rodriguez was a 
senior fellow in the Latino Studies 
Fellowship Program, which broad- 
ens and increases the body of 
Latino-related research. 

Under the Scholarly Studies Pro- 
gram, Richard Potts, director of the 
Human Origins Program at the Na- 
tional Museum of Natural History, 
is leading a project to study fossil 
records of early ancestors of hu- 
mans in the African Rift using stable 
isotope analysis. This research will 
increase the understanding of how 
vegetation and climatic changes in 
the environment affected the evo- 
lution of early humans. 

Kathleen Ash-Milby of the 
National Museum of the American 
Indian received a grant from the 
Collections-Based Research Pro- 
gram, which supports research 
on significant Smithsonian collec- 
tions. Ash-Milby studied the life 
and the paintings of Bonita Wa Wa 
Calachaw Nunez (1888-1972) in 
the museum's collection. Referred 



to by her pen name "Wa Wa 
Chaw," Nufiez was a self-taught 
painter, poet, and Indian rights 
activist raised in New York City. 

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL 
RELATIONS 

As the Smithsonian's liaison with 
individuals and institutions 
abroad, as well as with interna- 
tional organizations and with gov- 
ernment foreign affairs agencies, 
the Office of International Rela- 
tions fosters the Institution's po- 
sition as a leading international 
center for research and education. 

Among its activities this year 
was an international conference 
presenting recent research on 
desertification — the degradation 
of land resulting from climatic 
variations, human activities, and 
other factors. The conference was 
cosponsored by the office and the 
National Air and Space Museum's 
Center for Earth and Planetary 
Studies, in cooperation with other 
federal government agencies that 
support implementation of the 
Convention to Combat Desertifica- 
tion. The office also cosponsored a 
symposium on earthquakes, orga- 
nized with the Embassy of Italy 
and the International Council on 
Monuments and Sites. 

During the year, the office made 
arrangements for a number of im- 
portant international visitors, in- 
cluding the president of the Repub- 
lic of Mali, Alpha Oumar Konare, a 
longtime Smithsonian colleague 
who was an archaeologist and 
president of the International 
Council of Museums. In January, 
Japan's minister of science, culture, 
education, and sports, Nobutaka 
Machimura, paid a visit to Secretary 
I. Michael Heyman and toured the 
exhibition "Twelve Centuries of 
Japanese Art from the Imperial Col- 
lections" at the Arthur M. Sackler 
Gallery. Secretary Heyman also met 



with the ministers of culture from 
the three Baltic nations, Jaak Allik 
of Estonia, Ramona Umblija of 
Latvia, and Saulius Saltenis of 
Lithuania, on the occasion of the 
opening of the Smithsonian Folk- 
life Festival. 

OFFICE OF SPONSORED 
PROJECTS 

The Office of Sponsored Projects 
supports Smithsonian researchers' 
continuing quest for new knowl- 
edge with administrative and fi- 
nancial services that enable exter- 
nally funded research activities to 
thrive. This year, the office man- 
aged 1,058 active grant and spon- 
sored project contracts valued at 
$69.9 million. This base of re- 
search funding was maintained by 
supporting 147 researchers, who 
submitted 23 1 proposals valued at 
$62.8 million and by negotiating 
and accepting for the Institution 
190 grants and contracts with a 
value of $26.8 million. These 
awards provide critical resources, 
primarily for research activities, 
but also for educational programs 
and exhibitions. 

Among the Smithsonian organi- 
zations that received external 
funding were the National Mu- 
seum of Natural History from Shell 
Prospecting and Development for 
biodiversity research in Peru; the 
National Science Resources Center 
from the National Science Founda- 
tion for the Leadership and Assis- 
tance for Science Education Re- 
form initiative; the Smithsonian 
Environmental Research Center 
from the county commissioners of 
Charles County, Maryland, to 
study watershed nutrient and sedi- 
ment dynamics in Mattawoman 
Creek; and the Smithsonian tropi- 
cal Research Institute from the 
Department of Energy for research 
on the effects of carbon dioxide 
enrichment on carbon storage and 



53 



species growth in a mixed-species 
plantation ecosystem. 

PROGRAM FOR ASIAN 
PACIFIC AMERICAN STUDIES 

The Smithsonian Asian Pacific 
American Advisory Group issued 
its final report and recommenda- 
tions this year, providing a guide 
for integrating Asian Pacific Ameri- 
can history and culture into 
Smithsonian programs, collections, 
and research. Copies were distrib- 
uted within the Smithsonian, as 
well as to Asian Pacific American 
civic leaders, cultural organiza- 
tions, and scholars throughout the 
country. 

In conjunction with the Center 
for Museum Studies, the program 
organized a professional develop- 
ment seminar for Asian Pacific 
American museum professionals, 
the first of its kind. With support 
from Anheuser-Busch Companies, 
the Hawaii Community Founda- 
tion, and the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Educational Outreach Fund, 
the seminar attracted 13 partici- 
pants from museums in Honolulu, 
Los Angeles, Seattle, New York, and 
Washington, D.C. They took part in 
leadership exercises and explored 
current issues such as museum- 
community partnerships and serv- 
ing new immigrant communities. 

SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL 

The 1998 Smithsonian Council 
meeting focused on the Smith- 
sonian's relations with and pro- 
grams for communities across the 
nation. Four panel discussions 
dealt with new program directions; 
opportunities and risks in commu- 
nity relationships; ways in which 
Smithsonian units define the com- 
munities they serve; and the im- 
pact of programs on communities. 
A panel of outside leaders dis- 
cussed the needs of their commu- 



nities and relationships they want 
to form with the Institution. 

At the Council dinner, the 
Joseph Henry Medal was awarded 
to Tomas Ybarra-Frausto, former 
chairperson of the Smithsonian 
Council and the Latino Oversight 
Committee. He is associate director 
for arts and humanities at the 
Rockefeller Foundation. 

Council members participating 
in the meeting were: Robert McC. 
Adams, Smithsonian Secretary 
Emeritus, University of California, 
San Diego; Joyce O. Appleby, Uni- 
versity of California, Los Angeles; 
George R. Carruthers, Naval Re- 
search Laboratory; Kinshasha Hol- 
man ConwlU, Studio Museum in 
Harlem; Linda S. Cordell, Univer- 
sity of Colorado Museum; Ruth 
Schwartz Cowan, State University 
of New York, Stony Brook; Diane B. 
Frankel, Institute of Museum and 
Library Services; David R. Gergen, 
U.S. News and World Report; Cheryl 
McClenney-Brooker, Philadelphia 
Museum of Art; Clifton A. Poodry, 




National Institutes of Health; 
Richard J. Powell, Duke University; 
Mimi Quintanilla, Witte Museum 
of History and Science; Lauren B. 
Resnick, University of Pittsburgh; 
Jeremy A. Sabloff, University of 
Pennsylvania Museum; Igor I. 
Sikorsky Jr., attorney; Beryl B. Simp- 
son, University of Texas, Austin; 
Susan M. Vogel, Museum for 
African Art, New York; Elisabeth S. 
Vrba, Yale University; John Walsh, 
J. Paul Getty Museum; Akemi Kiku 
mura Yano, Japanese American 
National Museum; Tomas Ybarra- 
Frausto, Rockefeller Foundation. 

At the 1999 Smithsonian Coun- 
cil meeting, participants will re- 
view research activities and their 
relationship to public programs. 

SMITHSONIAN EARLY 
ENRICHMENT CENTER 

The Smithsonian Early Enrichment 
Center (SEEC), which celebrated its 
10th anniversary this year, is an 
innovative museum-based model 
child development center, pre- 




Smithsonlan Secretary I. Michael Heyman reads Boss for a Week to 
preschoolers at the Smithsonian Early Enrichment Center. (Photograph by 
Jeff Tinsley) 



54 



I 



school, and kindergarten that takes 
advantage of the invaluable re- 
sources of the Smithsonian and 
the nation's capital to teach chil- 
dren ages three months through 
six years. The program, accredited 
by the National Association for the 
Education of Young Children, 
serves 120 children at three Smith- 
sonian sites. SEEC also provides a 
national model for museum-based 
early childhood education, offer- 
ing twice-yearly seminars for 
teachers and museum profession- 
als from around the country and 
forming partnerships with mu- 
seums and educational institu- 
tions. For instance, SEEC licensed 
its curriculum to a cluster of five 
preschools and seven cultural insti- 
tutions in Cleveland, Ohio, and 
has shared its program with several 
schools in the Washington area. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 
AFFILIATIONS PROGRAM 

The Smithsonian Institution Affilia- 
tions Program is an innovative, col- 
lections-based outreach initiative 
that shares Smithsonian collec- 

: tions, staff expertise, and program- 
matic resources with communities 
throughout the nation. Affiliations 
offer museums an opportunity for 
long-term loans of objects and 
stimulate strong collaborations that 
can sustain other programs. Cur- 
rently, 21 organizations participate 
in the Affiliations Program. 
Smithsonian museums have be- 

i gun to think creatively about the 
program's potential. Objects that 

I cannot be displayed in Washington 
because of space constraints may 
appear on view elsewhere, and the 

f Smithsonian staff's research and 
documentation of the collections 
can be shared with other museums 
and researchers. Several Smith- 
sonian museums are discussing af- 
filiations that would include collab- 
orative research projects. 



Centro Alameda, a national cen- 
ter for Latino arts and culture in 
San Antonio, Texas, was the first 
organization to implement its 
affiliation fully. In May, an inter- 
national conference held in San 
Antonio built a foundation for 
long-term loans, future exhibi- 
tions, and programming. Centro 
Alameda has also enlisted the in- 
volvement of various Smithsonian 
offices in San Antonio's Tejano Mu- 
sic Festival and in the creation of a 
museum studies program at the 
University of Texas-San Antonio. 

During this fiscal year, the Affili- 
ations Program developed a Web 
site at www.si.edu/affil^wgram. 
This site contains information 
about the program and its current 
participants. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 
ARCHIVES 

The collections of the Smithsonian 
Institution Archives — including the 
historical records of the Institution, 
oral interviews and manuscript col- 
lections from selected staff, video 
histories, and the records of related 
organizations — form a significant 
research resource for both scholars 
and the interested public. Approxi- 
mately 2,600 researchers consulted 
the Archives staff this year, nearly 
20 percent of them by electronic 
mail. Researchers also make fre- 
quent use of the Archives' online 
databases or arrange to visit the 
Archives facility in the Arts and 
Industries Building. 

Online access to a series of 
linked Web sites provides virtual 
researchers a wide range of infor- 
mation about Smithsonian history, 
as well as collections management 
policy. Among the many new fea- 
tures created in 1998 is an online 
collection of historical photo- 
graphs {www.si.edu/archives/ 
historic/index.htm); information 
about the Institution's first Secretary, 



Joseph Henry {www.si.edu/archives/ 
jhp/index.htm); and management 
information related to the policies 
and procedures governing the na- 
tional collections {wv^^w.si.edu/ 
archives/NCP/ncphome.htm) . These 
and other electronic tools make 
the knowledge held by Archives 
staff and the information held in 
the collections accessible to all 
with Internet access. 

Continuing its effort to improve 
the environment in which archival 
collections are maintained, and 
solving an acute space problem for 
several Smithsonian units, the 
Archives coordinated the move of 
more than 5,000 cubic feet of 
records from 10 different Smith- 
sonian repositories to a newly cre- 
ated records center within National 
Underground Storage in Boyers, 
Pennsylvania. This cooperative 
venture met the short-term storage 
needs of such diverse units as the 
Center for Folklife Programs and 
Cultural Studies, the Hirshhorn 
Museum Library, the National An- 
thropological Archives, the Air and 
Space Archives, and the National 
Museum of American History. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 
LIBRARIES 

The Smithsonian Institution Li- 
braries is a major research facility 
that is integral to the pursuit of 
knowledge at the Smithsonian. 
With 19 branches in Washington, 
New York, and the Republic of 
Panama, more than 1.2 million vol- 
umes, and growing Internet access, 
the Libraries serves both the schol- 
arly community and the public. 

This year, the Wineland Re- 
search Library Endowment was 
established with a private contri- 
bution in conjunction with tlie 
Charlotte and Lloyd Wineland 
Collection of Native American and 
Exploration Literature. Income 
from the endowment will support 



55 




Dibner Library Resident Scholars 

The Smithsonian Institution Libraries brought three 
researchers to work in the Dibner Library of the His- 
tory of Science and Technology this year as Dibner 
Library Resident Scholars. Their topics were as var- 
ied as this rare book library's abundant resources: 
changing practices in the 18th-century color indus- 
try, the effects of the spread of steam engines on 
the British Industrial Revolution, and the impact of 
electricity usage in shaping the modern military. 

Sarah Lowengard, a New York textile conservator 
who is completing her doctoral requirements at the 
State University of New York, Stony Brook, worked 
with an extensive number of Dibner Library materi- 
als in her studies. Looking at the relationship be- 
tween 18th-century color production techniques and 
scientific theories held during that period about the 
nature of color, she consulted contemporary manu- 
als of practice, published lectures, and notices 
about color in learned journals and popular periodi- 
cals of the time. 

A great asset of the Dibner Library is ease of 
access, Lowengard says. "It was wonderful to be 
able to call up such a wide range of materials that 
deal with my subject and then to have a table full of 
resources to work with." After a month as a Dibner 
Resident Scholar, she says she made significant 
progress on her dissertation research. 

The two other resident scholars also capitalized 
on the Dibner Library's holdings of more than 17,000 
rare books and 1 ,800 manuscript units. Harry Kit- 
sikopoulos of New York University and the New 
York Institute of Technology used primary sources 
with information on steam engines of the period 
1770-1870, and Shannon Allen Brown of the Univer- 
sity of California at Santa Cruz consulted the distin- 
guished collection in the history of electricity. 

Sixteen researchers have been supported since 
The Dibner Fund began providing resources for the 
Smithsonian Institution Libraries Dibner Library Resi- 
dent Scholar Program in 1992. 



Sarah Lowengard, Smithsonian 
Libraries Dibner Library Resident 
Scholar, works in the Dibner Library 
of the History of Science and 
Technology. (Photograph by Jeff 
Tinsley) 



study, research, and other activities 
focused on the Smithsonian 
Native American collections. The 
Wineland collection of 48 titles 
contains such treasures as the first 
edition of Prince Maximilian's 
beautifully illustrated Reise in das 
Innere Nord-America in den Jahren 
1832 bis 1834 (1839-41) and 
Theodor de Bry's seminal 16th- 
century work that formed the basis 
for identification of North Ameri- 
can Indians for centuries. 

Expanding online access contin- 
ues to be a focus of the Libraries' 
activities. This year, the Libraries 
began to establish a Digital Imaging 
Center with the goal of publishing 
digital facsimiles of rare research 
materials. Initial funding was pro- 
vided by the Smithsonian's Ather- 
ton Seidell Endowment Fund. 

To facilitate research in pub- 
lished literature about African art, 
the Libraries has entered infor- 
mation about more than 18,000 
books, articles, reviews, and cata- 
logues in its online catalogue, 
www.siris.si.edu/. This successful 
effort has generated a growing 
number of interlibrary loan re- 
quests to the National Museum of 
African Art branch library. The 
online index, funded by the Getty 
Grant Program, will eventually 
include more than 28,000 records. 

To promote the preservation and 
accessibility of research materials, 
the Libraries and the Research Li- 
braries Group presented a three-day 
workshop for library and informa- 
tion professionals and specialists, 
archivists, curators, and preserva- 
tion administrators on "Managing 






Digital Imaging Projects." This 
workshop was the first of three on 
the topic, including one to be held 
in the United Kingdom. 

Other highlights of the LibrarieL 
year included the launch of an onl 
line version of the 150th anniver-i 
sary exhibition "From Smithson to 
Smithsonian: The Birth of an Insti- 
tution," with history lesson plans 
for grades 9 through 12 prepared 
by the Smithsonian Office of Edu 
cation, and two public lectures b 
scholars in the history of science 
and technology supported by Thei 
Dibner Fund. 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 
TRAVELING EXHIBITION 
SERVICE 

Since 1952, the Smithsonian Instl 
tution Traveling Exhibition Service 
(SITES) has been sharing the 
wealth of Smithsonian collections 
exhibitions, and research with 
people in communities through- 
out the nation. This year, SITES 
exhibitions helped communicate 
research in the sciences, arts, and 
humanities to a broad and enthu- 
siastic audience. 

At an education workshop for 
"Earth 2U, Exploring Geography," 
for example, museum educators 
discussed ways of explaining the 
research presented in the exhibi- 
tion to young audiences. Hosted in 
collaboration with the National 
Geographic Society, SITES' exhibi 
tion partner, and the California 
Science Center, an exhibiting insti 
tution, the workshop introduced 
the Discovery Trunks filled with 
hands-on geography activities that 
are given to each host museum 
and explored ways to use the 
"Earth 2U" Web site and CD-ROM. 
Midway through its tour, "Earth 
2U" continues to receive positive 
reviews and draw crowds. The 
exhibition and its educational 



56 




This dramatic image of the Selma-to- 
IVlontgomery march for voting rights 
in March 1965 is included in "We 
Shall Overcome: Photographs from 
the Civil Rights Era," organized by 
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling 
Exhibition Service. (Photograph © 
IVlatt Herron) 



programs are made possible 
through the generous support of 
Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A. 
SITES exhibitions often inspire 
host institutions to investigate 
further. When presenting "We 
Shall Overcome: Photographs from 
America's Civil Rights Era," the 
San Jose Museum of Art in Califor- 
) nia created extensive curriculum 
guides for visiting school groups 
that provided more social and his- 
toric context for the presentation 
of civil rights-era photographs. 
Host institutions for "Women and 
Flight" have involved women 
pilots and integrated resources 
from their communities to develop 
informative educational programs. 
The exhibition is supported by 
United Technologies Corporation. 
Additional support is provided by 
Ilford Corporation and the Smith- 
sonian Women's Committee. 



Research documenting the rich 
history of jazz in America contin- 
ued this year, as the Smithsonian's 
Jazz Oral History Program con- 
ducted 1 1 new interviews with 
prominent figures in jazz. The pro- 
gram is funded by the SITES initia- 
tive, America's Jazz Heritage, A Part- 
nership of the Lila Wallace-Reader's 
Digest Fund and the Smithsonian 
Institution. The archival holdings 
now include 120 oral history inter- 
views, mastered on compact discs 
and accessible to scholars, re- 
searchers, and jazz enthusiasts. 

During the year, SITES put the 
finishing touches on several exhibi- 
tions that reflect Smithsonian schol- 
arship. One example, organized by 
SITES and based on research by the 
Center for Folklife Programs and 
Cultural Studies, is "Creativity and 
Resistance: Maroon Cultures of the 
Americas." Designed in an accessible, 
easy-to-assemble format, this exhi- 
bition examines the cultural vitality 
of the Maroon people, whose ances- 
tors escaped from slavery between 
the early 16th and late 19th cen- 
turies, challenged colonial powers, 
and formed communities that 
thrive today. It begins a national 
tour in 1999. 



SMITHSONIAN OFFICE OF 
EDUCATION 

The Smithsonian Office of Edu- 
cation (SOE) promotes learning 
through the power of objects, en- 
couraging educators to explore the 
Institution's multifaceted resources 
and incorporate them in their 
classrooms. This year's programs 
for teachers, museum profession- 
als, and students extended the 
Smithsonian's educational impact. 

SOE created two Web sites this 
year for young researchers: Migra- 
tions in History and Impacto, Influ- 
encia, Cambio: Science, Technology, 
and Invention in Latin America and 
the Southwestern United States. Both 
sites contain primary source mate- 
rials from Smithsonian museums 
and archives, including oral histo- 
ries, patent drawings, documents, 
and photographs of objects. The 
sites, which are part of the Smith- 
sonian Education Web site, 
ediicate.si.edu, are aimed at the 
half million students in grades 6 
through 12 who create projects for 
National History Day each year. 

With the Institute of Museum 
and Library Services, SOE spon- 
sored a conference on the evalua- 
tion of museum-based schools. 



57 



Participants looked at the impact of 
these schools' curricula on student 
performance and shared examples 
of methods for measuring students' 
learning. The conference proceed- 
ings will be published in 1999. 

To promote classroom use of 
museum-based methodologies, SOE 
conducted a seminar on exhibition 
development for Washington, 
D.C.-area teachers. They met with 
museum curators, visited the Office 
of Exhibits Central, and toured the 
Smithsonian Center for Materials 
Research and Education. Then they 
used primary sources to build pro- 
totype exhibitions for their class- 
rooms. Based on the seminar and 
other research, SOE will publish 
guidelines on classroom exhibition 
development in 1999. 

Audience research shows that 
SOE's quarterly teaching guide for 
elementary schools, Smithsonian in 
Your Classroom, is an effective tool 
for educators. SOE joined forces 
with the Smithsonian's Institu- 
tional Studies Office to survey sub- 
scribers, finding that teachers are 
satisfied with the publication and 
use it regularly. 

ACCESSIBILITY PROGRAM 

The Accessibility Program coordi- 
nates actions by Smithsonian muse- 
ums, research institutes, and offices 
to invite and accommodate diverse 
audiences that include people with 
disabilities. The program's activities 
this year show the range of infor- 
mation and services it provides. 

Five seminars involving Smith- 
sonian staff and advisers with 
disabilities furthered ongoing re- 
search that resulted in accessible 
exhibition and publication design 
guidelines, as well as Smithsonian 
policies on service animals. Topics 
of discussion were appropriate 
treatment of service-animal own- 
ers at the National Zoo and in the 
museums, critiques of two exhibi- 



tions, accessibility issues for par- 
ents of children with disabilities, 
and accessible Web sites. 

The accessibility coordinator 
collaborated with the Office of 
Physical Plant to ensure that the 
design and construction of new 
and renovated facilities are fully 
accessible to people with disabili- 
ties. Projects under review this year 
included the National Air and 
Space Museum's Dulles Center, the 
National Museum of the American 
Indian's Cultural Resources Center, 
a number of exhibitions, and 
many renovation projects. 

The Accessibility Program also 
provided visitors to Smithsonian 
facilities and programs with more 
than 500 hours of accessibility 
services, including sign-language 
interpretation, audio description, 
and Realtime captioning. Other 
activities included reviewing revi- 
sions to the five-year accessibility 
plans prepared by every museum, 
research institute, and office and 
providing technical assistance to 
organizations within and outside 
the Smithsonian on issues related 
to museum accessibility. The pro- 
gram continues to find innovative 
solutions to design and accommo- 
dation challenges. 

INSTITUTE FOR 
CONSERVATION BIOLOGY 

In the Institute for Conservation 
Biology's (ICB) first full year, it 
established a leadership team, 
convened biologists and educators 
from throughout the Smithsonian 
to discuss future projects, and be- 
gan to promote interesting joint 
ventures with non-Smithsonian 
agencies and the private sector. 
With the departure of Thomas E. 
Lovejoy, ICB's first director, for the 
World Bank, Chris Wemmer, direc- 
tor of the National Zoological 
Park's Conservation and Research 
Center, was named acting director. 



ICB focused this year on building 
internal coalitions and external 
partnerships. More than 50 Smith- 
sonian scientists and administrator 
attended a two-day workshop to 
discuss ICB's potential for address- 
ing issues of biodiversity, conserva- 
tion, and research and to assess its 
progress and potential in fostering 
multidisciplinary projects across the 
Institution. ICB also forged strongei 
relations with non-Smithsonian 
agencies, universities, and non- 
governmental organizations. Majo: 
achievements include an agreement 
with the U.S. Department of State 
that makes the Smithsonian an offi- 
cial briefing point on environmen^ 
tal issues for ambassadors on their 
way to new assignments. 

With funding from Honda 
North America, Inc., ICB estab- 
lished a joint venture of the Na- 
tional Air and Space Museum, the 
National Zoo, and Honda that will 
help Smithsonian scientists estab- 
lish a national teacher training f 
program in satellite remote sensing 
of the environment and ground- 
based ecosystem studies. 

Another joint venture involving 
ICB, the Smithsonian Tropical Re- 
search Institute, the National Zoo's 
Migratory Bird Center, and Mars, 
Inc. brought together experts from 
industry and the environmental 
community for a conference on 
cocoa production in the tropics. 
These meetings and a subsequent 
article on the front page of the New 
York Times catalyzed new ways of 
thinking about "sustainable cocoa" 
and about promoting environmen- 
tally sensitive agricultural practices. 

The National Museum of Natural 
History and ICB, with Shell 
Prospecting and Development Peru 
and its partner Mobil Exploration 
and Production Peru, Inc., 
launched a project to gather and 
interpret biological data at the 
companies' natural gas reservoir 



58 



; sites and along proposed flow and 
pipeline routes in a vast, unspoiled 
rainforest in Peru's Ucayali Basin. 

• In addition to its focus on environ- 
mentally sensitive resource devel- 
opment, the project will train a 
new generation of scientists to en- 
sure the continuity of conserva- 
tion management in Peru. 

INSTITUTIONAL STUDIES 
OFFICE 

As an Institution-wide resource 
dedicated to the scientific study of 
Smithsonian constituencies, the 
Institutional Studies Office (ISO) 
conducts applied research and 
studies within Smithsonian mu- 
seums and offices. This year, ISO's 
research included a range of proj- 
ects aimed at understanding and 
assessing visitor perceptions, pref- 
erences, and responses. 

At the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, 
ISO investigated the preferences 
and experiences of visitors to the 
gallery and to the exhibitions 
"Puja: Expressions of Hindu Devo- 
tion" and "Twelve Centuries of 
Japanese Art from the Imperial 
Collections." The research aim was 
to understand the types of experi- 
ences that visitors find most satis- 
fying when encountering Asian art 
and establish how these prefer- 
ences are distributed among visi- 
tors. To help the National Museum 
of the American Indian prepare 
exhibition and program plans for 
its new museum on the National 
' Mall, ISO studied the perceptions 
of Native Americans held by visi- 
tors to the Mall. At the National 
Museum of American History, ISO 
researched visitors' attitudes to- 
ward the Star-Spangled Banner to 
provide information that will help 



the museum staff plan for the 
renovation of the gallery and 
the future display of the flag. 

Other ISO research focused on 
visitor responses to existing exhi- 
bitions and programs. For the 
Contributing Membership pro- 
gram, for example, ISO repeated 
a study done 10 years earlier and 
identified the continuities in this 
important constituent group. 

SCIENTIFIC DIVING PROGRAM 

As an Institution-wide research 
support program dedicated to the 
safe conduct of underwater science 
activities by Smithsonian staff and 
affiliated researchers, the Scientific 
Diving Program facilitated projects 
and diving expeditions by the 
Smithsonian Tropical Research 
Institute, the Smithsonian Envi- 
ronmental Research Center, the 
National Museum of American 
History, the Smithsonian Marine 
Station at Link Port, and the 
National Museum of Natural 
History. These projects involved 
more than 200 scientific divers and 
approximately 4,000 incident-free 
dives. In conjunction with its re- 
sponsibility for policy making and 
implementation of diving regula- 
tions, the Institution's Scientific 
Diving Control Board performed a 
thorough revision of the Scientific 
Diving Safety Manual. 

Program staff were involved in 
seven research diving expeditions 
in the Pacific and the Caribbean, 
an IMAX film project in the Gala- 
pagos Islands for the National 
Museum of Natural History, and 
diver training and diving first aid 
courses in the United States and 
abroad. 



59 



A COLLABORATIVE FRAMEWORK OF SUPPORT 



REPORT OF THE UNDER SECRETARY 



CONSTANCE BERRY NEWMAN 




Under Secretary Constance Berry 
Newman (Photograph by Richard 
Strauss) 



A great strength of the Smithsonian is its emphasis on collaboration. Many collaborative 
relationships join its diverse museums, research institutes, and offices in their efforts to 
fulfill a common mission. Through these relationships, each organization preserves its 
distinctive qualities, while our shared purpose becomes the driving force. Sometimes 
these linkages happen with great ease, and sometimes they are hard won. Each of them, 
however, enriches the Institution's contributions to exploring new frontiers of knowledge 
and sharing what is learned with scholarly communities and the public. 

Since the time of Joseph Henry, the Smithsonian's first Secretary, the Institution has 
been a world-renowned center of research, dedicated to pursuing new discoveries and ex- 
panded knowledge, first in the sciences and later in the humanities. The work of Smith- 
sonian scientists and scholars is immensely important to their colleagues throughout the 
world. This annual report reviews some of their accomplishments in wide-ranging fields 
of study — the revelation that Indian forest owlets are not extinct, new knowledge about a 
painting by Willem de Kooning, the recovery of a piece of the Star-Spangled Banner, and 
new evidence that a black hole the size of 3 million Suns anchors the heart of the Milky 
Way. The reports on the following pages review the efforts of Smithsonian organizations 
to share some of this intriguing work with the public and to provide essential operational 
support to their colleagues who are pursuing research in other parts of the Institution. 

Another important initiative underscores the sense of unity that is so essential to the 
Smithsonian's mission. Over the past fiscal year, staff members from across the Smith- 
sonian, under the leadership of the director of communications, were involved in an 
interesting and challenging undertaking: the creation of a cohesive visual identity for 
the Institution. As the Smithsonian, like so many other institutions, faces the challenging 
reality of competition for funding and for public recognition, our success will depend 
in part on presenting a unified public image. As Secretary Heyman explained, "The 
Smithsonian needs to encourage greater understanding of the totality of its activities 
and its mission. And this requires the use of a uniform graphic presentation." 

On the surface, this was a design and communication project — creating a new logo, 
developing guidelines for its use, and then implementing the complete program in every 
unit. But the project really had a larger symbolic meaning. Today's Smithsonian — a re- 
markably varied group of organizations with substantial reputations of their own — is 
quite different from the Smithsonian of Joseph Henry's time. The visual identity that 
emerged reminds us all that we have important common pursuits, and that the linkages 
we form among ourselves are vital to the Smithsonian's future. 



The Smithsonian's vibrant new 
logo, shown here on a Museum 
Shops bag, gives the Institution a 
unified visual Identity. (Photograph 
l)y Eric Long) 



THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES 

On the National Mall, across the nation, and around the world, The Smithsonian Associ- 
ates (TSA) offers stimulating educational opportunities for Smithsonian members and the 
larger public. This year, more than 250,000 people participated in nearly 1,800 programs 
and learned directly from experts about developments in most areas of scholarsliip, troni 



61 



Radio Theatre Live!— A Lively 
Partnership 

In what has become an annual event, the Smith- 
sonian's Resident Associate Program again joined in 
rich partnership with L.A. Theatre Works and Voice of 
America (VOA) to present Radio Theatre Live!— three 
classic American dramas that were taped live for 
later broadcast on VOA worldwide and on public ra- 
dio in the United States. Under the guidance of the 
artistic directors of three distinguished Washington 
theater companies, the plays were performed by 
some of the country's most talented actors. Smith- 
sonian audiences had the added thrill of observing 
live radio drama in production. 

The plays included Arthur Miller's All My Sons, 
starring the great Julie Harris and James Farantino 
and directed by Nick Olcott of Arena Stage. Henry 
James' The Heiress, starring Amy Irving, was 
directed by Michael Kahn of The Shakespeare 
Theatre. And the musical Working, based on a Studs 
Terkel book, starred Tyne Daly and was directed by 
Eric Schaeffer of Signature Theatre. 

Additional cosponsors of Radio Theatre Live! were 
the Capital Group Companies, Inc.; J. W. Marriott; 
Dr. Sidney Harman, chairman of Harman International 
Industries, Inc.; The Luxury Collection/ITT Sheraton; 
and La Colline. 



music history to astronomy, from 
genetics to the Civil War. 

TSA's Resident Associate Program 
offerings presented a rich variety 
of research and scholarship to au- 
diences in the greater Washington 
area. Among the highlights was an 
evening with historian John Hope 
Franklin, who spoke with the 
Smithsonian's Marc Pachter and 
Franklin's son John Whittington 
Franklin of the Center for Folklife 
Programs and Cultural Studies 
about his research into the remark- 
able life and times of his father, 



Without costumes or props, actress 
Julie Harris captured the heart of her 
audience In Arthur Miller's play All 
My Sons, one In a three-part series 
of radio dramas produced by L.A. 
Theatre Works and presented by the 
Smithsonian's Resident Associate 
Program and Voice of America, with 
several Washington theaters and 
other cosponsors. (Photograph by 
Hugh Talman) 



Buck Colbert Franklin. Cultural 
historian Tad Szulc drew on his 
study of rare correspondence and 
journals to provide new insights 
into Frederic Chopin's years in 
Paris as part of a vibrant intellec- 
tual community. The evening cul- 
minated in a performance of three 
of Chopin's shorter works by con- 
cert pianist Eugene Istomin. 

Two thought-provoking lectures 
reflected the public's growing in- 
terest in the work of geneticists: 
Ian Wilmut discussing the social 
implications of his sheep-cloning 
research and Dean Hamer explain 
ing his exploration of the links 
among genetics, personality, and 
behavior. Mario Livio of the Space 
Telescope Science Institute con- 
ducted two all-day seminars on the 
latest discoveries about the uni- 
verse made possible by the Hubbl( 
Space Telescope. A seminar on Ika 
textiles in Asia, held in conjunc- 
tion with an exhibition at the 
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, placed 




62 



these distinctive textiles in histori- 
cal context. 

In Resident Associate children's 
workshops, young participants 
learned from scientists about their 
work. Dave Bohaska of the Na- 
tional Museum of Natural History, 
for example, led young paleobiolo- 
gists on an expedition along the 
Chesapeake Bay to find and ana- 
lyze fossils, shark teeth, and other 
treasures. The popular Smith- 
sonian Summer Camp opened a 
world of possibilities for young ex- 
plorers. Sessions included Summer 
Splash!, in which campers exam- 
ined the properties of liquids and 
their various states, and A Shocking 

I Good Time!, which introduced 
youngsters to the concepts of 

t electricity. 

Associates expanded their study 
through more than 500 Smith- 
sonian Study Tours in the United 
States and abroad. This year's offer- 

j ings included a one-week seminar 
based at the Smithsonian Astro- 
physical Observatory's Whipple 
Observatory and the National Ob- 
servatories on Kitt Peak near Tuc- 
son, Arizona. Civil War historians 
Edwin C. Bearss and A. Wilson 
Greene led several tours illuminat- 
ing the strategies and campaigns 
that determined the war's outcome 
and shaped northern and southern 
political life into our own time. 
Associates on a 10-day study voy- 
age in Panama boarded a small 
vessel to visit indigenous peoples 
in island communities and explore 
the rainforest ecosystem with Stan- 
ley Heckadon of the Smithsonian 
Tropical Research Institute. 

TSA's National Outreach Pro- 
gram introduced the public to the 
research of Smithsonian scholars 
and taught graduate students new 
research techniques. A Smith- 
sonian Voices of Discovery Pro- 
gram in Scottsdale, Arizona, for 
example, featured the work of 



Gillian Moss, curator of textiles at 
the Cooper-Hewitt, National De- 
sign Museum; James Zimbelman, 
geologist at the Center for Earth 
and Planetary Studies, National 
Air and Space Museum; Jeremy 
Adamson, curator at the Renwick 
Gallery, National Museum of 
American Art; and Andrew Con- 
nors, curator of painting at the 
National Museum of American Art. 
Some 5,000 people attended these 
events, while thousands more 
watched a cablecast to classrooms 
and homes in the region. In addi- 
tion, TSA's master's degree program 
in the history of decorative arts, es- 
tablished in 1996 with the Cooper- 
Hewitt, National Design Museum 
and Parsons School of Design, 
graduated its first class this year. 

SMITHSONIAN PRESS/ 
SMITHSONIAN PRODUCTIONS 

Through books for general and 
academic audiences, exhibition 
films and videos, and broadcast 
projects, Smithsonian Press and 
Smithsonian Productions (SP/SP) 
build on the strengths of Smith- 
sonian research and collections. 

This year, Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Press (SIP), an SP/SP division, 
issued approximately 65 new 
books and sold about 330,000 
individual copies. Books from SIP 
received nine important editorial 
awards, many design awards, 
eleven reviews in the Washington 
Post Book World, and three reviews 
in the New York Times Book Review. 

Continuing the successful 
Smithsonian Answer Book series. 
Bats in Question was included 
on the New York Public Library's 
annual list of best books in the 
teenage category. Author Don 
Wilson is director of the National 
Museum of Natural History's Biodi- 
versity Programs Office. Other 
books for a general audience in- 
cluded Anthropology Explored: The 



Smithsonian Contributions and 
Studies Series Program 

In scholarly communities, it is firmly held that indi- 
vidual research has little benefit to society unless it 
is published. This fundamental principle was wisely 
reflected in the Institution's original mandate not only 
to increase knowledge but, equally important, to 
diffuse it. 

The Smithsonian's first Secretary emphasized 
publication as a means of diffusing knowledge. In 
his formal plan for the Institution, Joseph Henry pro- 
posed to "publish a series of reports, giving an 
account of the new discoveries in science, and of 
the changes made from year to year in all branches 
of knowledge." 

This commitment to publishing has been honored 
through the years in the publication of thousands of 
titles issued In various serial publications under the 
Smithsonian imprint, beginning with Smithsonian 
Contributions to Knowledge In 1848 and continuing 
today with the nine monograph series published by 
the Smithsonian Contributions and Studies Series 
Program. 

Highly regarded in this country and around the 
world, the nine series include reports on the results 
of scientific, technical, and historical research con- 
ducted by Smithsonian staff, as well as reports on 
the Institution's collections. This program is one of 
the few avenues In which Smithsonian researchers 
and their collaborating colleagues can publish large 
monographs and major revislonary works, which are 
often profusely Illustrated. Most of these works are 
too large to be considered by Journals, which typi- 
cally publish short articles. The nine series are An- 
thropology, Botany, Earth Sciences, Marine Sci- 
ences, Paleobiology, Zoology, Folklife Studies, Air 
and Space, and History and Technology. The publi- 
cations in each series are distributed by mailing lists 
to libraries, research Institutions, government agen- 
cies, and individual scholars throughout the world. 

In addition to providing high-quality editorial assis- 
tance, the program's staff editors typeset and de- 
sign the monographs and provide camera-ready 
pages to the printer This year, the program pub- 
lished 18 monographs, Including a Thesaurus of 
Sponge Morphology and a two-volume work on the 
Systematlcs and Blogeography of Cephatopods. 



I 



63 




Scientific illustration of Perca 
decipiens (Muel. Arg.) Muell. Arg 
from Central and South America. 
The species is a member of the 
spurge family, which includes poin- 
settia, crown of thorns, and casava 
(used to make tapioca and arrow 
root). This illustration was published 
in Smithsonian Contributions to 
Botany, number 86. (Cathy Pasquale, 
scientific illustrator) 



Best of Smithsonian AnthroNotes, a 
lively selection of essays from the 
Smithsonian's acclaimed serial 
publication edited by Ruth Selig 
and Marilyn London, in which 
the world's leading anthropologists 
explore fundamental questions 
humans ask themselves as indi- 
viduals, as societies, and as a spe- 
cies. The elegant exhibition cata- 
logue Twelve Centuries of Japanese 
Art from the Imperial Collections, 
copublished with the Freer Gallery 
of Art and the Arthur M. Sackler 
Gallery, elaborates on the curator- 
ial research behind the exhibition. 
In collaboration with the Bureau of 
Land Management, SIP published 



the first recreational guide to the 
bureau's enormous land holdings, 
Beyond the National Parks: A Recre 
ation Guide to the Public Lands in the 
West. 

Books for academic audiences in- 
cluded a posthumously published 
book by Martin H. Moynihan, 
founding director of the Smith- 
sonian Tropical Research Institute 
The Social Regulation ofCompetitiot 
and Aggression in Animals. Ecology 
and Management of the North Amer. 
can Moose received the annual bool 
award in the edited book category! 
from the Wildlife Society. The Soci- 
ety of American Archaeology gave 
its annual book award to volume 
2 of Monte Verde: A Late Pleistocene\ 
Settlement in Chile, by Tom Dille' 
hay, part of the Smithsonian Series 
in Archaeological Inquiry. Contin-| 
uing its tradition of excellence as a" 
publisher in museum studies, SIP • 
issued an extensively revised and " 
expanded edition of Marie Malaro's 
classic Legal Primer on Managing 
Museum Collections. 

Many of the exhibition programs 
that Smithsonian Productions de- i 
veloped during 1998 grew out of 
the research efforts of Smithsonian 
museums. Highlights include a 
video of Ella Fitzgerald's best per- 
formances for "Ella Fitzgerald: First 
Lady of Song" at the National Mu- 
seum of American History; Poetics 
of Line: Seven Artists of the Nsukka 
Group, a profile of contemporary 
African artists produced for the 
National Museum of African Art; 
and three videos for "Speak to My 
Heart: Communities of Faith and 1 
Contemporary African American 
Life," organized by the Anacostia 
Museum and Center for African 
American History and Culture. 

Several broadcast projects also 
drew on solid research, fazz Smith- 
sonian, the nationally broadcast ra- 
dio series that features the Smith- 
sonian Jazz Masterworks Orchestra 



)S 

I 



64 



and host Lena Home, celebrated 
its sixth season by expanding to 
13 programs. Guitar: Electrified, 
Amplified, and Deified, produced for 
the National Museum of American 
History's Jerome and Dorothy 
Lemelson Center for the Study of 
Invention and Innovation and 
aired nationwide on public radio, 
traced the musical impact of the 
electric guitar. 

SMITHSONIAN MAGAZINE 

For 2 million readers, Smithsonian 
magazine is a respected link to the 
multifaceted world of the Smith- 
sonian. Articles about research in 
the sciences, the arts, and the hu- 
manities, both inside and outside 
the Institution, are regular features 
' in the magazine. This year, readers 
learned about the Smithsonian As- 
trophysical Observatory's creation 
of an x-ray sensor for the new space 
telescope known as the Advanced 
. X-ray Astrophysics Facility (later re- 
named the Chandra X-ray Observa- 
tory) and curator Wendy Wick 
: Reaves' work on the National Por- 
trait Gallery exhibition "Celebrity 
Caricature in America." Other ar- 
ticles focused on subjects as varied 
as freshwater mussels, the history of 
fountains, the causes of back pain. 



coral reefs, and objects from the 
California gold rush. Michael Ker- 
nan, who explores the Smithsonian 
in his column "Around the Mall 
and Beyond," took readers behind 
the scenes for, among other things, 
a look at collection storage and lab- 
oratories at the Museum Support 
Center; a visit to the archives of the 
National Museum of American His- 
tory's Engineering and Industry 
Collection; a conversation with 
Richard Fiske, director of the Global 
Volcanism Program at the National 
Museum of Natural History; and a 
visit to the archives of the National 
Museum of American History's En- 
gineering and Industry Collection. 

SMITHSONIAN BUSINESSES 

A Smithsonian Frog Lab, a piece of 
Art Nouveau glass, a CD-ROM on 
American art — each says something 
to the consumer about the Smith- 
sonian's mission as a leading re- 
search and educational institution. 
In turn, merchandise like this — sold 
in museum shops, through The 
Smithsonian Catalogue, or in retail 
stores through licensing agree- 
ments — generates revenue that is 
critical to the Institution's financial 
base and benefits its many pro- 
grams, including research. 



This year, Smithsonian Museum 
Shop sales exceeded $36 million, a 
9 percent increase over fiscal year 
1997. Exhibition-related shops re- 
mained popular, especially at the 
National Air and Space Museum, 
where "Star Wars: The Magic of 
Myth" inspired the most successful 
temporary shop ever. The "Jewels 
of Lalique" shop in the Interna- 
tional Gallery featured glass jew- 
elry and giftware from Lalique and 
an assortment of products that re- 
flected Rene Lalique's influence in 
art and nature. 

The Smithsonian Catalogue 
enjoyed record sales of nearly $35 
million, a 10 percent increase over 
last fiscal year. In April, the Cata- 
logue opened its new 125,000- 
square-foot fulfillment center near 
Dulles Airport in Chantilly, Vir- 
ginia. Sales resulting from the 
mailing of 18 million catalogues 
last year overwhelmed the capacity 
of the previous, much smaller, lo- 
cation. With the move, the Cata- 
logue plans to increase the number 
of packages shipped annually from 
442,000 to 740,000. 

The new facility is home to the 
Catalogue's call center, as well as 
purchasing, accounting, human 
resources, information systems, 



Young people explore the world of 
science with the Smithsonian Frog 
Lab and the Smithsonian Anatomy 
Lab, created by Product 
Development and Licensing and 
Natural Science Industries with the 
National Museum of Natural History. 
(Photograph by Joan McKenny) 




65 



shipping, receiving, and inventory 
control operations. The large in- 
ventory of holiday ornaments, 
neckties, furniture, and other items 
inspired by Smithsonian collec- 
tions is received and processed 
there and then shipped to cus- 
tomers around the world. 

Licensing agreements also help 
fund research initiatives. In 1998, 
more than 65 percent of the avail- 
able royalties revenue went to col- 
lection or programmatic endeav- 
ors, including research. As a result 
of the revenue-sharing system, for 



The Smithsonian Catalogue opened 
a new 1 25, 000-square-foot fulfillment 
center in Virginia this year In the 
"ship loop," shown here, orders are 
prepared for shipping. (Photograph 
by David Giovarelli) 



example, the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Libraries supplemented its 
General Support Endowment, 
which addresses the Libraries' 
needs and strengthen its capacity 
as an accessible research resource. 

Some of the children's retail 
products developed by licensees 
reflect the Smithsonian's position 
as a leading research institution. 
With the Smithsonian Anatomy 
Lab and the Smithsonian Frog 
Lab, for example, young scientists 
explore anatomical systems and 
their interaction with their envi- 
ronments. The labs, sold in stores 
throughout North America, were 
created by Product Development 
and Licensing and Natural Science 
Industries in conjunction with 
the National Museum of Natural 
History's Department of Anthro- 
pology and the National Zoologi- 
cal Park's Department of Pathology. 



OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS 

This year, director of communica- ii 
tions David J. Umansky and staff 
in the Office of Public Affairs (OPA) 
began implementing the Secretary's 
new visual identity program, 
designed by Ivan Chermayeff of 
Chermayeff & Geismar in New York 
City. The foundation of the program 
is a new logo, used with a sunburst 
symbol, that links the Smithsonian 
name with each museum, research 
institute, and office. 

A major effort in implementing 
the visual identity was the prepare 
tion, printing, and distribution of 
the Smithsonian Design Guidelines, 
which govern use of the logo by 
staff and outside designers and 
printers. By the end of the fiscal 
year, the new identity was in plact 
on many Smithsonian products, 
including stationery, Web sites, 
brochures, and reports. 




66 



A public service ad campaign put 
the Smithsonian in the public eye 
this year. The ad featured Larry 
Fuente's colorful Game Fish, from 
the Renwick Gallery's collection, 
with the line "Ever wonder who 
decides what the Smithsonian 
keeps?" It ran in TV Guide, Latina, 
I the New Yorker, Elle Decor, and 
other magazines in free space pro- 
vided to nonprofit organizations 
such as the Smithsonian. The ad 
received the Addy 98 Citation of 
Excellence from the Advertising 
Club of Washington, D.C. 

Extensive media coverage fol- 
lowed the announcement of a 
three-year conservation project for 
the Star-Spangled Banner. The 
project is part of the White House 
Millennium Council's Save Ameri- 
ca's Treasures initiative, launched 
at the National Museum of Ameri- 
can History on July 13 by Presi- 
dent Bill Clinton and First Lady 
Hillary Rodham Clinton. OPA 
handled all media for the event 
and videotaped the ceremony. 
OPA produced a 16-minute 
video for television news pro- 
ducers with exterior views of the 
museums and the National Mall, 
as well as shots of famous artifacts, 
including the Star-Spangled Ban- 
ner. The staff also developed and 
produced a seven-minute film 
about education at the Smith- 
► sonian to be used by the Office of 
; Membership and Development 
and other offices. 

Two brochures in OPA's Re- 
sources series were updated this 
year: Native American Resources at 
the Smithsonian and African and 
African American Resources at the 
Smithsonian. The brochures are in- 
tended for teachers, students, and 
researchers interested in exploring 
Smithsonian collections, data- 
bases, publications, and other 
resources. 



OPA also re-established a full- 
time staff position this year to 
publicize and promote research at 
the Institution. 

VISITOR INFORMATION AND 
ASSOCIATES' RECEPTION 
CENTER 

The Visitor Information and Asso- 
ciates' Reception Center (VIARC) 
supports both public access to 
Smithsonian research and the work 
of the Institution's scholars and sci- 
entists. This year, 5,684 volunteers 
contributed 495,541 hours of ser- 
vice as docents, volunteer informa- 
tion specialists, and staff assistants 
behind the scenes, as well as in 
other volunteer activities that help 
the Smithsonian fulfill its mission. 

An important example of 
VIARC's contributions is the 
Behind-the-Scenes Volunteer Pro- 
gram, which places volunteers as 
research assistants to staff on sub- 
jects as varied as the Smithsonian 
itself. VIARC also administers the 
Public Inquiry Mail and Telephone 
Information Service, which pro- 
vides a central point for public 
contact about the Institution's 
work. Collectively, mail and phone 
inquiries number 400,000 annu- 
ally, many of which are specific to 
the Institution's research activities. 

Hundreds of thousands of 
visitors are exploring the Institu- 
tion's research resources online 
through the electronic Encyclopedia 
Smithsonian {www.si.edu/resource/ 
faq/start.htm), developed and 
maintained by VIARC on the 
Smithsonian Web site. Encyclope- 
dia Smithsonian also presents fact 
sheets and recommended reading 
lists prepared by the Public In- 
quiry Mail Service in cooperation 
with curatorial and research 
divisions. 




Smithsonian 
Institution 



A Unified Visual Identity for the 
Smithsonian 



1 



The Smithsonian's first logo, in 1847, was James 
Smithson's profile. Symbols of enlightenment fol- 
lowed: a globe and torches of knowledge in the late 
19th century and then, in 1966, the sunburst. Over 
the years, the museums, research Institutes, and 
offices developed their own visual identities. 

After the 150th anniversary celebration and look 
ing toward the new century. Secretary 1. Michael 
Heyman felt the time was right to create a unified 
visual identity for the Institution. It was clear, he ] 
wrote in Smithsonian magazine, that "knowing who 
we are and being able to communicate that Identity 
clearly and confidently to the public Is best achieved 
in a single graphic representing both our sum and 
our parts." 

The choice was the sunburst, linking the Smith- 
sonian's history with Its future. Chermayeff & Gels- 
mar, Inc., of New York designed the updated sun- 
burst and logotype and created design guidelines to 
help implement the new visual identity program 
throughout the Institution. 

Building a strong corporate Identity Is standard 
practice In the business world. For the Smithsonian, 
the challenges are similar "If we are to be success- 
ful in attracting the support we need, now and Into 
the next century, to sustain our multiple depart- 
ments, activities, and service to our audiences," the 
Secretary wrote, "the Smithsonian must express 
those needs with one voice, with one Image." 

As the sunburst logo continues to appear on sta- 
tionery, Web sites, publications, and product pack- 
aging, a stronger public image of a multifaceted 
Institution dedicated to knowledge is emerging. 



1 



67 




Volunteer information specialists Arnold Palley (left) and Carmel Jordan get 
acquainted with Minerva, an intelligent, nnobile robot that gave tours of the 
National Museum of American History exhibition "A Material World." 
(Photograph by Hugh Talman) 



OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT 
RELATIONS 

The Office of Government Rela- 
tions, with Donald L. Hardy as its 
new director, oversaw a successful 
legislative agenda to enact person- 
nel protections for Smithsonian 
employees and secure funding 
to update and expand the Insti- 
tution's transportation collections, 
exhibitions, and public program- 
ming. Supporting the Smith- 
sonian's priority to make its 
collections and programs more 
accessible to the public. Govern- 
ment Relations staff coordinated 
discussions, demonstrations, and 
tours for members of Congress 
and their staffs. The goal was to 
enlist their support for making thf 
Smithsonian the nation's virtual 
museum and research complex. 
In collaboration with educators 
and with Smithsonian museums, 
research institutes, and offices, the 
Office of Government Relations 
placed special emphasis on bring- 
ing Smithsonian resources to the 
classroom. 



OPERATIONS 

Those involved in the Smith- 
sonian's research activities on the I 
National Mall and around the 
world depend on the centralized 
services provided by Washington- 
based finance, administration, facili 
ties, and information technology 
staff. This year was no exception, a 
offices in the administrative area 
continued to provide a reliable, ef- 
fective support system for their col 
leagues throughout the Institution. 
A number of activities recognizee 
the Smithsonian's dedicated staff. 
The annual Unsung Heroes awards 
coordinated by the Ombudsman, 
honored employees nominated by 
their colleagues for their exemplar) 
service. The Office of Equal Em- 
ployment and Minority Affairs 
presented the fourth annual Excel- 



68 



lence in Equal Opportunity awards 
to four employees for their accom- 
plishments in making equal oppor- 
tunity a reality. The Office of Hu- 
man Resources introduced open 
houses for Smithsonian employees 
who work outside Washington, 
beginning with an event in New 
York City at the National Museum 
of the American Indian. 

Two major construction projects 
were completed this year: the Na- 
tional Museum of the American 
Indian's (NMAI) new Cultural 
Resources Center in Suitland, 
Maryland, and the renovation and 
expansion of the Cooper-Hewitt, 
National Design Museum. The 
145,000-square-foot NMAI facility 
is a support center for the museum 
and its collection. It features a re- 
source center, conservation labora- 
tories, repatriation offices, indoor 
and outdoor ceremonial areas, and 
collection storage. Objects now 
stored in the museum's Research 
Branch in the Bronx, New York, 
will be moved to the center over 
the next five years. At the Cooper- 
Hewitt, a multiphase project to 
transform the museum's landmark 
structures into an accessible mu- 
seum facility involved renovating 
three historic buildings, installing 
an upgraded climate control sys- 
tem, and creating the new Design 
Resource Center linked to the mu- 
seum's historic Andrew Carnegie 
Mansion by the new Agnes Bourne 
Bridge Gallery. 

Other renovation and expansion 
projects moved ahead this year 
throughout the Institution, co- 
ordinated by the Facilities division. 
They included the East and West 
Court projects at the National 
Museum of Natural History; plans 
for renovation of the historic U.S. 
Patent Office Building, home of 
the National Museum of American 
Art and the National Portrait 
Gallery; the renovation of the 



National Air and Space Museum 
and planning for the museum's 
Dulles Center; and the design of 
the National Museum of the 
American Indian's Mall museum. 
Ground was broken for a major 
research laboratory for the Smith- 
sonian Marine Station in Fort 
Pierce, Florida. 

Several offices analyzed and im- 
proved the efficiency of systems 
that serve the entire Smithsonian. 
The Finance division, for example, 
led an Institution-wide team to 
study indirect cost issues, resulting 
in a 50 percent reduction in the 
indirect cost rate used in financial 
planning and management. The di- 
vision also initiated several projects 
to improve financial systems, in- 
cluding a new time and attendance 
data entry system and more flexible 
software for developing and issuing 
financial reports. The Office of 
Planning, Management, and 
Budget continues to develop and 
refine its automated system for 
improving resource planning and 
management. The office has also 
developed an integrated electronic 
budget management database. 

Technical assistance from the 
Office of Information Technology 
(OIT) helps the Smithsonian keep 
pace with rapid developments in 
information and communication 
technology. This year, for example, 
OIT advised Smithsonian art 
museums in the selection and 
installation of a new collections 
information system known as The 
Museum System^^"^. With the Office 
of the Provost, OIT is designing a 
system to provide searchable pub- 
lic access to collections informa- 
tion from the museums, the 
Smithsonian Institution Libraries, 
and the Smithsonian Institution 
Archives. 



Research Volunteers 



^ 



i 



1 



Working with museum and research institute staff 
on everything from aviation history to threatened 
plants of Latin America, volunteers In the Visitor 
Information and Associates' Reception Center's 
Behind-the-Scenes Volunteer Program actively 
contribute to the Smithsonian's research efforts. At 
the National Portrait Gallery, the range of volunteer 
research projects illustrates just how valuable volun-^ 
teer participation can be. 

In the Painting and Sculpture Department, Philippe 
Newton, a retired engineering executive and a 
painter, has spent the past four years doing 
research for assistant curator Brandon Fortune in 
preparation for the exhibition "Franklin and His 
Friends: Portraying the Man of Science in 18th- 
century America," which opens In April 1999. "He 
has researched everything from the transits of 
Venus to bee keeping," Fortune says, even taking 
time during a personal trip to London to study some 
18th-century manuscripts at the Natural History 
Museum. 

For an exhibition of portraits by photographer 
Hans Namuth, also opening In April, volunteer 
Christopher Saks searched the National Archives, 
locating information that other researchers had not 
found. "He deserves a lot of credit for his diligence 
and perseverance, and especially for his skill at 
using the Archives," says Carolyn Carn exhibition 
curator and the gallery's deputy director 

Elsewhere In the Portrait Gallery, Mary Skew and 
Joseph Phillips volunteer with the Charles Wlllson 
Peale Papers project. Their research runs the gamut 
from tracking down basic biographical information 
to more complex activities. They summarize and 
transcribe manuscript letters of Peale family mem- 
bers, for example, and then research specific 
aspects of the letters' contents. For the Catalog of 
American Portraits, Sylvia Lee Is involved In a variety 
of tasks, from verifying information about portraits 
In public and private collections, to data entry, to 
answering research requests. 

Volunteers working on research-related projects 
are among the 1 ,240 Behind-the-Scenes volunteers 
who contributed 176,128 hours of their time to the 
Smithsonian during fiscal year 1998. 



69 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO EXCELLENCE 



DEVELOPMENT AND MEMBERSHIP 

ROBERT V. HANLE, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FOR DEVELOPMENT 




Executive Director for Development 
Robert V. Hanle 



Kenneth E. Behring and his wife, 
Patricia, center, along with Secretary 
I. Michael Heyman, right, and Robert 
Fri, National Museum of Natural 
History director, examine a model 
of the Natural History Museum 
Rotunda, which will be renovated 
through a generous $20 million gift 
from the Kenneth E. Behring Family. 
Renovation of the museum's Hall of 
Mammals and new permanent 
traveling programs will also be 
funded by the gift. (Photograph by 
Glenn Levy) 



Research is integral to everything we do at the Smithsonian. It uncovers new knowledge, 
enriches our exhibitions, and provides the foundation for our education programs. It 
keeps the Smithsonian vital, and it inspires millions to retxirn year after year seeking fresh 
insights and stimulating challenges. The many facets of research at the Smithsonian pro- 
vide ways for our supporters to share their love for the Institution and their commitment 
to the spirit of inquiry in which it was founded. 

This was an excellent year for private giving at the Smithsonian. We focused on helping 
our supporters build their relationships with the Institution by exploring their interests 
in different ways and by finding the right match for them in the Smithsonian mosaic. 
Research was a guiding presence, and throughout the Smithsonian development commu- 
nity, our perspectives are constantly evolving as the excitement of discovery sparks new 
opportunities for giving. 

The Institution received more than $92 million in fiscal year 1998 through the generos- 
ity of individuals, corporations, foundations, and other friends, or 187 percent of private 
gifts raised in 1997. Donations from individuals constituted $25.7 million, or 27.7 per- 
cent of the total, including planned gifts from individuals, such as charitable gift annu- 
ities, charitable remainder trusts, and bequests. Corporations and foundations, including 
those established by individuals, contributed $60.9 million (65.5 percent). Of the total 
funds raised, $75.3 million was restricted to specific programs. 

This major increase in support is evidence of the growing recognition by a wide variety 
of audiences that the Smithsonian is a national treasure that needs philanthropic invest- 
ment to continue meeting the standards of excellence for which it is known. The hard 
work of many volunteers and staff was responsible for this success, and the momentum 
is building as we enter our first national capital campaign. The Smithsonian is indeed 
fortunate to have so many friends and supporters. 

One thing remains constant: Our friends want the Smithsonian to keep pushing the 
envelope of knowledge and experimenting with ways to share it worldwide. Many are 
exploring their interests through deepening relationships with our research centers. Gifts 
this year included a large anonymous unrestricted gift to the Smithsonian Tropical 
Research Institute, a gift to help the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center fund an 
internship program, foundation support for the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory's 
Multiple Mirror Telescope project, a generous gift that helped us reconstruct and plant 
new public gardens, and many unrestricted gifts to help the Archives of American Art 
build, preserve, and catalogue its collections. 

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the many individuals, corporations, foun- 
dations, and organizations that have supported the Institution over the years, as well as 
those whose generous contributions during fiscal year 1998 helped us achieve the suc- 
cesses described in this annual report. Donors of $2,000 or more are listed at the end of 
this section. 



71 



Funds Raised by Source 


Uses of Funds Raised 




Fiscal Year 1998 


Fiscal Year 1998 














Construction 




Foundations 

$41,280,030 


Designated to 
Museums & 




$11,502,013 
(12.38%) 




(44.42%) 


Research Institutes 

$34,935,218 A 




^\ Acquisitions & 
\. /Collections 

-''^y $8,448,827 (9.09%) 




/ \ 


(37.59%) J 




Individuals 

$25,721,468 


K 


\ 


\ 




\~7_ Education & Public 
J/ Programs 


\ ] r- 


(27.68%) 


\ 


\ / Corporations 






^\ $5,434,792 (5.85%) 




V / 


\ / $19,633,263 


Unrestricted 


\ 




N^ 


J^ (21.12%) 


$15,652,715 


Other 


\ Research 




Bequests Other 


(1 6.84%) 


$2,033,880 
(2.19%) 


\ $7,036,831 (7.57%) 




$2,482,984 $3,823,077 






Exhibitions 




(2.670/0) (4TTo/„) 






$7,896,546 
(8.49%) 



Smithsonian National Board 

The Smithsonian National Board's 
generous gifts and unselfish dona- 
tion of its time and expertise are 
among the Institution's greatest 
assets. Led in 1998 by Chair Jean 
Mahoney and Vice-Chair Frank A. 
Weil, the board's 51 current, 116 
alumni, and 14 honorary members 
worked tirelessly as goodwill am- 
bassadors across the country and 
often laid the groundwork to help 
bring the Smithsonian to their 
communities. 



The Board Annual Giving Com- 
mittee, chaired by Mrs. John M. 
Bradley, this year focused on Secre- 
tary I. Michael Heyman's priorities 
of expanding the Smithsonian's 
electronic presence and increasing 
opportunities for access to our un- 
paralleled resources. The National 
Board gave generously to shape 
education programs that experi- 
ment with new ways of engaging 
people in learning. The Board An- 
nual Giving Fund raised more than 
$1.6 million for these purposes 




and for other programs for which 
board members have a special 
affinity. 

We extend our deepest thank; 
to Jean Mahoney, who completed 
seven years of board service this 
year, the last three as board chair. 
Under her guidance, the board, 
working through the Office of 
Membership and Development, 
played a key role in organizing ac- 
tivities for the 150th anniversary 
celebration. Mahoney was a driv- 
ing force in recruiting leaders for 
board committees and engaging 
volunteers in productive, work. 
During Mahoney's tenure as chair, 
regional constituency develop- 
ment work advanced significantly, 
as teams of current, alumni, and 
honorary board members orga- 
nized working groups to discuss 
ways of bringing local friends into 
a closer involvement with the 
Smithsonian. Mahoney also dra- 



As part of their October 1997 
meeting, Smithsonian National Board 
members visited the National Air and 
Space Museum's Paul E. Garber 
Preservation, Restoration, and 
Storage Facility and learned more 
about the museum's Dulles Center I 
project. (Photograph by Margo | 

Knight) 



72 



matically increased the board's 
commitment to annual giving. 
This change was due in part to 
strengthened ties between the 
board and Smithsonian museums, 
research institutes, and offices, 
which allowed members to pursue 



personal interests and understand 
how the many parts of the Institu- 
tion relate to the greater whole. 

In April, the New York Commit- 
tee of the board organized a special 
event at the Cooper-Hewitt, Na- 
tional Design Museum in coopera- 




tion with the National Museum 
of the American Indian and the 
New York regional center of the 
Archives of American Art. A cock- 
tail reception brought together 
new and old friends of the Smith- 
sonian, including supporters of the 
New York "America's Smithsonian" 
gala, for a concert by the Smith- 
sonian Jazz Masterworks Orchestra. 
New York is one of our strongest 
bases beyond the National Mall, 
and we were happy to showcase 
for our supporters the many ways 
the Smithsonian is active in their 
region. With the National Board's 
assistance, we continue to build on 
the strong relationships we estab- 
lished around the nation during 
our historic anniversary year. 



Contributing Membership 

The Contributing Membership is 
the Smithsonian's annual fund, an 
important source of unrestricted 
contributions that provides sup- 
port for research and other initia- 
tives where it is needed most. This 



More than 70 Contributing IVlembers 
enjoyed behind-the-scenes tours 
and presentations in the 
"Smithsonian Treasures" series this 
year. (Photograph by Seva Raskin) 

Sir Christopher Meyer, KCMG, 
British ambassador In Washington, 
and Lady Meyer were welcomed as 
honorary members of the James 
Smithson Society at the society's 
annual dinner (Photograph by Jeff 
Tinsley) 




73 



year, the Contributing Member- 
ship raised nearly $9 million. 

The program also presents 
Smithsonian research to large na- 
tional audiences through its publi- 
cations and events and helps en- 
gage people across the country 
more closely with the Institution. 
"Smithsonian Treasures," the popu- 
lar annual series of behind-the- 
scenes tours, this year welcomed 
70 Contributing Members for an 
insider's look at exhibition devel- 
opment at the Office of Exhibits 
Central, a curator's perspective on 
the Janet Annenberg Hooker Hall 
of Geology, Gems, and Minerals at 
the National Museum of Natural 
History, a concert on a classic pi- 
ano in the National Museum of 
American History's Hall of Musical 
Instruments, and an opportunity 
to explore the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Libraries' rare book collection. 

In September, the Contributing 
Membership introduced a second 
behind-the-scenes tour series, 
"Smithsonian Focus," concentrat- 
ing on a specific aspect of the Insti- 
tution. This year's program, 
"Smithsonian Architecture: Pre- 



serving Our Buildings for Today 
and Tomorrow," brought 20 par- 
ticipants to Washington for an in- 
depth look at our buildings: their 
preservation, their role in housing 
our collections, and their stature as 
works of art. 

In addition to their dues. Con- 
tributing Members gave generously 
to special needs. This year was one 
of the strongest ever for generating 
unrestricted support for research 
and education initiatives. Many 
Contributing Members also 
strengthened their support by 
upgrading their memberships to 
higher levels, such as the James 
Smithson Society. 

James Smithson Society 

Research at the Institution requires 
a commitment for the long haul, so 
that Smithsonian scholars can put 
emerging knowledge into perspec- 
tive over many years. The unre- 
stricted gifts of the James Smithson 
Society are one important means of 
sustaining this commitment. This 
year, the society's 450 members 
gave nearly $600,000 through 
membership dues and special gifts. 





f 






/^^ 


ii 


iii" 




BBM^I 


H 1 


B.^.H 






<=s^ 1 


.-.-.*f 


i^^l' 






^\ 


^ 


m 


iff ^ 


1^ 


-J^ 




\ 


^h^:^i^iL 


\ ' 




^1 


i 


^ijmimMrm 


(*/ 


r'-.^c ■; V • 


?^k^ 


'Vh5.v/|j 


1" -^ 




1 





Six new members joined the 
James Smithson Society Endowed 
Life Program. Mrs. Alton Grimes, 
William Hopkins, Richard and 
Elaine Kaufman, Shirley P. Sichel, 
and an anonymous donor made 
this generous commitment to the 
long-range work of the Smith- 
sonian. Endowed Life Members 
make a one-time gift, and part of 
the proceeds is used for the mem- 
ber's annual dues over his or her 
lifetime. This growing program 
helps provide essential support for 
our efforts to focus on the big pic- ' 
ture and plan ahead. 

Shirley Sichel was also recog- 
nized with the James Smithson So 
ciety Founder Medal for her long- 
standing support of the National 
Zoological Park, its Conservation 
and Research Center, and its New 
Opportunities in Animal Health 
Sciences Program. She has founded 
the Sichel Family Endowment for 
Research to advance the vital work 
of these units. At the Smithson So- 
ciety's annual dinner. Sir Christo- 
pher Meyer, KCMG, British Ambas- 
sador in Washington, and Lady 
Meyer joined Secretary Heyman in 
presenting the medal to Sichel. 
The Meyers were also granted hon-j 
orary membership in the society. 



Highlights of Corporate 
Philanthropy 

The business community is a 
growing segment of support for 
a wide range of Smithsonian 
activities. This year, corporate 
support opened new avenues of 
exploration for millions of people 
through research, education, and 
exhibition initiatives. 

Shirley P. Sichel, recipient of this 
year's James Smithson Society | 
Founder Medal, is congratulated by 
David Wildt of the National Zoo's 
Conservation and Research Center 
and his wife, Susie Ellis. (Photograph 
by Jeff Tinsley) 



i 



I 



Secretary I. Michael Heyman 
presents the second annual 
Corporate Leadership Award to 
NOVUS Services, Inc. (now 
Discover® Financial Services, Inc.), 
represented by Thomas Butler, then 
president of NOVUS. (Photograph 
by Hugh Talman) 



As planning for the upcoming 
capital campaign proceeded, we 
drafted a policy for corporate asso- 
ciations that will help us maximize 
corporate support while finding 
the best match between Smith- 
sonian programs and the interests 
of our corporate supporters. A Di- 
rector for Corporate and Founda- 
tion Relations was named earlier 
this fall, who will work with 
Smithsonian administrators, direc- 
tors, and development officers to 
coordinate a strategy for engaging 
more corporations in the Institu- 
tion and maximizing their philan- 
thropic support. 

The Smithsonian Corporate 
Membership Program welcomed 
17 new members and raised $1,027 
million in unrestricted funds. The 
program's annual luncheon in 
May featured Marie Knowles, 
executive vice-president and chief 
financial officer of ARCO and a 
member of the Smithsonian 
National Board, as the keynote 
speaker. Education at the Smith- 
sonian was highlighted in a new 
. video produced by the program. 
The Smithsonian: America's Class- 
room demonstrates the wide-rang- 
ing educational impact of Smith- 
. sonian research in the classroom, 
' exhibitions, public programs, and 
behind-the-scenes activities. 

The Corporate Membership Pro- 
gram awarded the second annual 
Corporate Leadership Award to 
NOVUS Services, Inc. (now Dis- 
cover® Financial Services, Inc.). 
Thomas Butler, then president of 
NOVUS, accepted the award and 



AAA \ 

\AAA 

AAAA 



described how the partnership 
between the Smithsonian and 
Discover® Card has benefited the 
company while improving educa- 
tion nationwide. 

The generosity of the business 
community makes a positive dif- 
ference in the number and quality 
of programs that the Smithsonian 
is able to undertake. We especially 
want to recognize the contribution 
this year of Polo Ralph Lauren Cor- 
poration, whose pledge to the Star- 
Spangled Banner Preservation Proj- 
ect will enable the Smithsonian to 
preserve one of our country's most 
important icons and later rehang it 
in a redesigned exhibition space 
with fresh educational and inter- 
pretive materials. Polo Ralph Lau- 
ren's partnership with the Institu- 
tion is an outstanding example of 
how corporations are making a 
difference in the lives of all Ameri- 
cans through our national mu- 
seum and education center. 

The National Air and Space 
Museum's Dulles Center campaign 



w 

\/\A/ 



. >/>AA 
\A/VW 
/WW 
WW\ 
^AAAA/. 
VWNA* 



»mi» 



also benefited from the generosity 
of the business community this 
year. The Boeing Company made 
a leadership pledge to the center. 
Lockheed Martin Corporation 
pledged major support in addition 
to its support for a Smithsonian 
Institution Traveling Exhibition 
Service show on the Hubble Tele- 
scope. Federal Express Corp. also 
pledged its support for the center. 

Discover® Card gave a significant 
unrestricted gift to the Smith- 
sonian this year. The gift was part 
of the company's five-year com- 
mitment to fund specific programs 
and provide unrestricted support. 
Discover® Card also continues its 
association with the Institution 
through an affinity card program, 
which generates donations to the 
Smithsonian with every purchase 
made using the card and makes a 
contribution with every card is- 
sued or renewed. 

NAMM/lnternational Music 
Products Association gave a gener- 
ous gift to support the National 



75 



A Neiv Rose Garden and Fountain 

Outside the east door of the Smithsonian Institution 
Building, a beautiful rose garden flourishes through 
the generosity of Individual donors. The renovated 
Kathrine Dulln Folger Rose Garden Is the gift of Lee 
and Juliet Folger and the Folger Fund in memory of 
Lee Folger's mother At the center of the garden Is 
the Gur-Karma-Rana Keith Fountain, restored and 
Installed as a gift of the Keith family: Gurdit Singh 
Keith, Karam Kaur Keith, Mahinder Singh Keith, 
Rajinder K. Keith, and Narinder K. Keith. 

Juliet and Lee Folger are Contributing Members, 
and Mr. Folger Is the former chair of the Smithsonian 
Luncheon Group and a supporter of the Smith- 
sonian Luncheon Group Endowment Fund. The 
Folgers and the Folger Fund are generous contribu- 
tors to many philanthropic causes In the Washington 
area. Narinder K. Keith, a member of the Smith- 
sonian Legacy Society and a Smithsonian volunteer, 
has supported the Fund for the Future, as well as 
the Freer and Sackler Galleries. . jn 

A tree planted in the garden honors the memory 
of Joseph Goudon VII, special assistant to the Sec- 
retary from 1980 to 1988. His mother Katherlne H. 
Goudon Murphy established the Joseph Coudon VII 
Fund for Acquisitions for the Archives of American 
Art after his death In 1988 and has been a generous 
contributor to the fund. 

The Folger Rose Garden space has had a number 
of uses over the years — a curved gravel entrance, a 
lawn, shrubbery, and eventually a rose garden, cre- 
ated in 1978 and redesigned In 1998. The three- 
tiered Victorian fountain was made In the late 19th 
century by the J. W. Fiske Iron Works of New York 
City. The Smithsonian acquired it In 1977 from the 
estate of Nanette F. Dunlop. A new fountain in the 
courtyard of Blair House, the President's guest 
quarters, was cast from a mold of the Smithsonian 
fountain. 

The new Folger Garden Is a tangible reminder of 
how valuable Individual support Is to the Smith- 
sonian. The generous gifts of Lee and Juliet Folger, 
the Keith family, and Katherlne H. Coudon Murphy 
have helped to create a restful spot that thousands 
of visitors will enjoy In the years to come. 



Museum of American History's 
"Piano 300" project, which will 
explore the history and life of this 
influential instrument on the oc- 
casion of the 300th anniversary 
of its invention. 

Foundations 

Foundation support was strongly 
felt this year with programs as var- 
ied as the historically significant 
Star-Spangled Banner Preservation 
Project (through a leadership gift 
from the Pew Charitable Trusts), 
the inventive Web hit "Revealing 
Things" (supported by the Rocke- 
feller Foundation), and the exhibi- 
tion "Speak To My Heart: Commu- 
nities of Faith and Contemporary 
African American Life" (underwrit- 
ten by the Lilly Endowment and 
the Henry Luce Foundation). 

Foundations value the Smith- 
sonian as a partner for leveraging 
change in people's lives, both on 
the community and the national 
levels. Through their investments 
in scholarly and popular education 
programs, research endeavors, pro- 
fessional development and train- 
ing, collection sharing, and access 
to unparalleled expertise, founda- 
tions help the Smithsonian apply 
its considerable resources to en- 
hance the quality of life for people 
around the world. 

Smithsonian Benefactors 
Circle 

The Smithsonian Benefactors Cir- 
cle this year honored two longtime 
friends who continue to have a 
strong impact on research. Dr. and 
Mrs. Herbert Axelrod received the 
circle's annual award in recogni- 
tion of their gift this year to estab- 
lish the first endowed chair at the 
Smithsonian. The Herbert and Eve- 
lyn Axelrod Revolving Chair of 
Systematic Ichthyology at the Na- 
tional Museum of Natural History 
will have a three-year occupancy 



and rotate among curators in the 
Department of Vertebrate Zoology's 
Division of Fishes. Dr. Axelrod's 
gift ensures the vitality of research 
in the field to which he has de- 
voted his professional life. 

The Axelrods also established 
two chamber music endowments 
in the Division of Cultural History 
at the National Museum of Ameri- 
can History to support care for 
their other major gifts — four 
Stradivarius instruments and four 
1 7th-century instruments by Jacob 
Stainer — and to enable wider au- 
diences to hear these priceless 
instruments in live performance. 

The Benefactors Circle continues! 
as a way to honor friends who 
have made significant commit- 
ments to the Institution. 

Smithsonian Women's 
Committee 

The Smithsonian Women's Com- 
mittee, a volunteer group chaired 
in 1998 by Paula Jeffries, contin- 
ued outstanding service through 
its coordination of the 16th an- 
nual Smithsonian Craft Show. 
One hundred twenty artists were 
chosen from 1,600 applicants to 
exhibit at the prestigious show, 
chaired by Eleanor Carter and 
held again at the National Building 
Museum. Nearly 17,000 people 
attended the four-day event in 
April. 

The Women's Committee raised 
more than $320,000, which it will 
distribute in a competitive grants 
program. Proceeds from the 1997 
show, distributed in the spring of 
1998, funded 27 projects in 12 
museums and offices across the 
Smithsonian. Research was a 
strong component, with such 
projects as an exhibition on the 
famous and mysterious "Iceman" 
mummy and a program of biology 
and wildlife management courses 
in Uganda, Brazil, and China. 



I 



76 



Smithsonian Washington 
" Council 

The Smithsonian Washington 
Council, established last year by 
the Secretary and regional leaders, 
remained dedicated to expanding 
the Smithsonian's relationship 
with the Washington region. 
Chaired by Washington attorney 
and civic leader R. Robert Linowes, 
the council gave unrestricted gifts 
that will benefit research and edu- 
cation projects. Members' gifts also 
supported the Institution's partner- 
ship with the D.C. Public Schools, 
the Museum Magnet School pro- 
gram; helped ensure that the 
Smithsonian Office of Education's 
Web site reaches teachers locally 
and nationally with lesson plans 
and other resources; made possible 
Teachers' Night, an annual event 
showcasing ways educators can use 
the Smithsonian in their teaching; 
and helped advance a planned 
Education Resource Center on the 
National Mall. 

Smithsonian Legacy Society 

The Smithsonian Legacy Society, 
founded in 1996 to honor our 
! friends who carry on James Smith- 
son's tradition by making legacy 
gifts to the Smithsonian, gained 
i momentum this year. Supporters 
continue to explore bequests, 
charitable gift annuities, charitable 
I remainder trusts, pooled income 
i fund gifts, gifts of retirement and 
life insurance plans, and other 
f giving vehicles. Legacy gifts are a 
I growing and important source of 
1 future support at the Smithsonian. 
I Those whose planned gifts are 
made known in future years will 
be welcomed into the society. 

I Smithsonian Luncheon Group 

Chaired by C. Benjamin Crisman 
Jr., the Smithsonian Luncheon 
Group is a circle of supporters 
from the Washington area who 



meet regularly to learn about 
Smithsonian programs, from art to 
zoology. The group met five times 
this year and visited the National 
Museum of American History's 
Hall of Musical Instruments; ex- 
plored Japanese art at the Arthur 
M. Sackler Gallery; attended a 
showing of Ansel Adams photo- 
graphs at the National Museum of 
American Art; delved into research 
at the National Zoological Park's 
"Think Tank" exhibition; and at- 
tended a lecture about Mars by 
scientists from the Center for 
Earth and Planetary Studies at 
the National Air and Space Mu- 
seum. The endowment that the 
group established two years ago 
for education programs to benefit 
Washington, D.C. -area youth 
continues to grow. 

Capital Campaign 

This year, we began planning in 
greater detail for a capital cam- 
paign in which we will ask the 
American people for their support 
to ensure that their Smithsonian 
remains a vital national resource. 
The campaign received a signifi- 
cant boost from philanthropist 
Kenneth E. Behring, whose gift to 
the National Museum of Natural 
History will enable the renovation 
of the popular Mammal Hall and 
the development of outreach 
activities that teach budding sci- 
entists across the country about 
biology and conservation. The 
Smithsonian Board of Regents rec- 
ognized Behring for his generosity, 
and he was inducted into the Or- 
der of James Smithson, a distinc- 
tion given to only four people in 
the Institution's history. 

Another project benefiting from 
the early stages of the campaign is 
the National Museum of American 
History's Star-Spangled Banner 
Preservation Project. Through re- 
search, education, and exhibitions. 



the project illustrates the wide- 
ranging support the Smithsonian 
must seek during its capital cam- 
paign. Gifts this year ranged from 
$10 million from Polo Ralph 
Lauren Corporation and a $5 
million pledge from the Pew 
Charitable Trusts to $5 donations 
from individual supporters. In 
between, foundations, individuals, 
and many other friends made gifts 
and shared their expertise so that 
the Smithsonian can undertake 
the research necessary to conserve 
the flag, better understand its his- 
tory and context, and provide 
fresh educational and interpretive 
materials. 

The Smithsonian Fund for the 
Future, an important vehicle for 
the campaign and the foundation 
for a solid base of long-term sup- 
port, continued to grow this year. 
The fund is a living endowment 
established through the generosity 
of the Smithsonian National 
Board. 

We also developed a strategic 
plan for implementing the capital 
campaign and a case statement 
detailing the Smithsonian's needs 
and its benefits to the nation. In 
mid-September, the Smithsonian 
Regents gave the campaign their 
official endorsement and commit- 
ted resources to support its imple- 
mentation. 

This momentum and the early 
gifts to the campaign point to a 
strong national interest from 
people in all regions and all walks 
of life. We will also deepen our re- 
lationship with the friends whose 
generosity and active involvement 
with the Smithsonian are de- 
scribed in this report. 



77 



SMITHSONIAN 
BENEFACTORS CIRCLE 

The Smithsonian Benefactors Circle 
recognizes and honors those whose 
generous gifts of $100,000 or more 
have preserved the traditions of the 
Smithsonian and furthered its vision. 

Honorary Founder 

Enid A. Haupt 

Founders 

Russell B. Aitkent 

Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton 

Arthur G. Altschul 

William S. Anderson 

Mary Griggs Burke 

Joan K. Davidson 

Gaylordt and Dorothy Donnelley 

Thomas M. Evansf 

Katharine Graham 

Robert C. and Julie Graham Jr. 

Herbert Waide Hemphill Jr.f 

William A.f and Patricia W. Hewittf 

Ikuo Hirayama 

Olga Hirshhorn 

Ruth S. Holmberg 

Samuel C. Johnson 

Marvin Breckinridge Patterson 

Laura E. Phillipst 

S. Dillon and Mary L. Ripleyt 

Arthur Ross 

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler 

Else Sackler 

W. Mason and Jean D. Shehan 

T. T. Tsui 

Glenn O. Tupper 



Patrons 

Ronald D. and Anne Abramson 

Ann Simmons Alspaugh 

Peter C. and Joan Andrews 

Marjorie Arundel 

Herbert and Evelyn Axelrod 

Edward P. Bass 

Patricia and Kenneth E. Behring 

Randy and Nancy Best 

Peter and Helen Bing 

James and Barbara Block 

Winton and Carolyn Blount 

Agnes C. Bourne and James Luebbers 

Michael J. Brophy 

Hildegard Bruck 

Joan Bull 

George E. Burch III 

Vivian G. Burch 

Michael W. Cassidy 

Scott Chinery 

Marcus Cohn 

Barber B. Conable Jr. and Charlotte 

Conable 
Guido Craveri 
Joseph R Cullman III 
Peggy and Richard M. Danziger 
David L. Davies 
Evelyn Y. Davis 
David and Frances Dibner 
Charles M. and Valerie T. Diker 
Joseph Di Palma 
Anne G. Earhart 
Barney A. Ebsworth 
Robert H. Ellsworth 
John L. and Margot P. Ernst 
Kitty Fassett 
Nancy Fessenden 
Kathrine, Juliet and Lee Folger 



Rita Fraad 

John A. Friede 

Phillip and Patricia Frost 

Tito Giamporcaro 

Daniel D. and Alice P Gilbert 

George J. and Eileen D. Gillespie 

F. Warrington Gillet Jr. and Elesabeth 

I. Gillet 
Alfred C.Glassell Jr. 
AMn L. Gray 
Jerome L. Greene 
Barrick W. Groom 
Agnes S. Gund 
George Gund III 
Karl H. Hagen 
Joan D. Haig 
Evelyn A. J. Hall 
Gloria Shaw Hamilton 
Marguerite J. Harbert 
Martha A. Healy 
Drue M. Heinz 
John Hendricks 
Lloyd Herman 

Henry L. and Elsie H. Hillman 
Frank W. and Lisina M. Hoch 
Janet Annenberg Hookerf 
Sir Joseph Hotung 
John R. Huggard 
Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume 
Gilbert S. Kahn 
Jacob and Ruth C. Kainen 
Victor and Loretta Kaufman 
Gene A. and Freita F. Keluche 
James M. Kemper Jr. 
R. Crosby Kemper Jr. 
James W. and Mary T. Kinnear 
Ann and Gilbert Kinney 
Ethel Niki Kominikf 




1 



William K. and Alice S. Konze 

Karl V. Krombein 

Harvey M. and Connie Krueger 

Robert E. and Elizabeth Krueger 

Robert and Helen Kuhn 

Rogerio S. Lam 

Ru Lennox Langt 

Robert and Carrie Lehrman 

Jeromet and Dorothy Lemelson 

Barbara and Gerald Levin 

Sydney and Frances Lewis 

John Livermore 

Putnam Livermore 

Henry Luce III 

Frank J. Lukowski 

Barbara A. Mandel 

Harry and Beverly Mandil 

Edwin S. and Nancy A. Marks 

John F. and Adrienne B. Mars 

Brooks and Hope B.f McCormick 

Nan Tucker McEvoy 

Katherine Medlinger and Ervin 

Himmelfarb 
Antony M. Merck 
Eugene and Sue Mercy Jr. 
Jeffery W. and Janet Meyer 
James and Lolly Mitchell 
Lester S. Morse Jr. and Enid W. Morse 
The Hon. Daniel Patrick Moynihan 

and Elizabeth Moynihan 
Charles T. and Nancy Munger 
Eleanor Smallwood Niebell 
Jean Niemeier 

Robert H. and Nancy Nooter 
Marta G. Norman * 

Carroll and Nancy Fields O'Connor 
Charles Rand Penney 
AI and Cecilia Podell 
Winifred and Norman Portenoy 
Lewis and Margaret Ranieri 
Philip D. Reed Jr. and Elizabeth Reed 
Douglas F. and Sanae I. Reeves 
Frank K. Ribelin 
Carlyn Ring 
David Rockefeller Sr. 
Elihu Rose and Susan Rose 
Anton H. Rosenthal and Ruth E. 

Canister 
Milton F and Frieda Rosenthal 
Wilbur L.Ross Jr. 
Jeanette Cantrell Rudy 
Cecile Salomon 
Joseph H. Samuel Jr. 
Mrs. Stanley P. Sax 



Herbert and Evelyn Axelrod, 
right, shown here with Gary 
Sturm of the National Museum 
of American History, accepted 
the Smithsonian Benefactors 
Circle annual award. 
(Photograph by Glenn Levy) 



78 



Lloyd G. and Betty L. Schermer 
Margaret Knowles Schink 
Richard J. and Sheila Schwartz 
Catherine F. Scott 
Ivan and Nina Selin 
Shirley P. Sichel 
Emma M. Sims 
James C. Slaughter 
George L. Small 
Kathy Daubert Smith 
Bernie E. Stadiem 
Mrs. Sydney Stein Jr. 
E. Hadley Stuart Jr. and Marion Stuart 
A. Alfred Taubman 
Vernon F. Taylor Jr. 
Eugene V. and Clare E. Thaw 
Jeffrey and Diane Tobin 
R. E. Turner and Jane Fonda 
Ladislaus and Beatrix von Hoffmann 
John Weeden 
Daniel Weinstein 
Nancy Brown Wellin 
Anthony and Beatrice W. Welters 
Jerry R.f and Carolyn L. White 
Julius Wile 

Warren and Barbara Winiarski 
Ronald H. Winston and Heidi Jensen- 
Winston 
Elizabeth B. Wood 
Gay F. Wray 
Nancy B. Zirkle 

tDeceased 



DONORS OF FINANCIAL 
SUPPORT 

'Denotes a gift to the Fund for the 
Future, a citizens' initiative to raise 
endowment funds, both unrestricted 
and special purpose. 

$1,000,000 or more 

Anonymous 

Herbert and Evelyn Axelrod 

The Kenneth E. Behring Family 

The Boeing Company 

The Emil Buehler Trust 

Discover Card Services, Inc. 

FDX Corporation 

Mrs. Katherine M. Graham 

The Conrad N. Hilton Foundation 

Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation 

Lemelson Family Foundation* 

Mashantucket Pequot Tribal 

Nation of Connecticut 
1 Lockheed Martin Corporation 
National Association of Music 

Merchants 
Nippon Foundation 
Nordic Council of Ministers 
The Pew Clharitable Trusts 
Scottsdale Cultural Council 



$500,000 or more 

Anonymous 

The Art Research Foundation 

Morris & Gwendolyn Cafritz 

Foundation 
E. Rhodes & Leona B. Carpenter 

Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Danziger 
Discovery Communications, Inc. 
Friends of the National Zoo 
Hewlett-Packard Company 
The Robert Wood Johnson 

Foundation 
The Kresge Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald M. Levin 
The John D. & Catherine T. 

MacArthur Foundation 
Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A. 
Susan and Elihu Rose Foundation 
Dr. and Mrs. Ivan Selin 
Shell Prospecting & Development 

(Peru) B.V. 



$100,000 or more 

Anonymous 

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton 

(Allbritton Foundation) 
Alumax, Inc. 

American Express Company 
ASARCO Incorporated 
AT&T Corporation 
Avery Dennison Corporation 
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Block 
Agnes Bourne 
BP America Inc. 
Centro Alameda, Inc. 
Cessna Aircraft Company 
The Chase Manhattan Bank 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Diker (Valerie 

and Charles Diker Fund) 
Dow Chemical Company 
DuPont 
Earthwatch 

Enron/Enron Oil & Gas International 
Fieldstead & Company 
The Ford Foundation 
The Freed Foundation 
The Philip L. Graham Fund 
Mr. Alvin Gray (Alvin, Lottie & Rachel 

Gray Fund) 
Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary 

Griggs Burke Foundation 
Mr. George Gund 111 
Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton* 
Mr. and Mrs. John S. Hendricks 
Frank and Lisina Hoch* 
Mr. and Mrs. A. William Holmbcrg* 
Honda of North America 
Intel Corporation 
Jewelers of America 
John S. and James L. Knight 

Foundation 
Laliquc North America, Inc. 
Carrie and Robert l.ehriiian 
I'he Henry 1 uci' louiul.itioii, hic. 
Maharam 



Mr. and Mrs. John F. Mars (Mars 

Incorporated) 
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation 
Merck Company Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Mercy Jr. 
Monsanto Fund 
Enid and Lester Morse (Morse Family 

Foundation) 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles T. Munger 

(Alfred C. Munger Foundation) 
National Business Aviation 

Association 
Pfizer Inc 
Philippine Centennial Foundation 

USA 
Regional Citizens Advisory Council, 

Inc. 
James Renwick Alliance 
Rockefeller Foundation 
Shaw Contract Group 
Shell Oil Company 
Mrs. Warren H. Sichel 
Smithsonian Women's Committee 
Ms. Elizabeth H. Solomon (Sweet 

Meadow Fund) 
The Starr Foundation 
The Sulzberger Foundation, Inc. 
Time Warner Inc. 
Timex Corporation 
Trimble Navigation Limited 
Mr. Robert E. Turner III (Turner 

Foundation, Inc.) 
VWR Scientific Products 
Nancy Brown Wellin (The Brown 

Foundation) 
Warren and Barbara Winiarski 
Mr. John R. Young (Florence J. Gould 

Foundation) 
Zoologische Gesellschaft 

$50,000 or more 

Anonymous 

Altman Foundation 

Anheuser-Busch Companies 

AT&T Foundation 

Banco Popular de Puerto Rico 

Mrs. Christine Allen and Ms. Anne 

Zetterberg (The Bedminster Fund, 

Inc.) 
Dr. and Mrs. Peter S. Bing 
Booth Ferris Foundation 
Brother International Corporation 
Carolina Biological Supply Company 
Case Corporation 

Champion International Corporation 
The C'hasc Manhattan Corporation 
Choice Hotels International, Inc. 
Computcrworld Information 

Technology Awards Foundation, 

Inc. 
Conoco Inc. 

Consolidated Natural Cias ('ompaiu- 
Council for Advancement J< Support 

of Education 
Ms. Allison Stacey C^owles ami Mr. 

Arthur Ochs Sulzberger (The 

Sul/.bergor Fouiulation)* 



Crate & Barrel 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Cullman III* 

Dayton Hudson Corporation 

Delta Education 

Clarence & Anne Dunwalke Trust 

Fannie Mae Foundation 

Mr. and Mrs. Hart Fessenden 

Fidelity Foundation 

George Mason University 

Goldman, Sachs and Company 

Mrs. Ruth C. Greenberg 

The Greenwich Workshop, Inc. 

Henry Foundation 

Herman Miller, Inc. 

Hughes Network Systems 

IBM Corporation 

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson 

Mr. and Mrs. Victor Kaufman 

Mr. Harvey M. Krueger 

Mr. Rogerio S. Lam 

Metropolitan Life Foundation 

Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer 

Foundation 
Mr. Jeffery W. Meyer 
Mobil Corporation 
The New York Community Trust — 

The Island Fund 
Mr. Peter Norton (Peter Norton 

Foundation) 
Mr. and Mrs. Carroll O'Connor 

(Carroll and Nancy O'Connor 

Foundation) 
Pacific Life Foundation 
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson* 
Pennzoil Company 
Pratt and Whitney 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Mr. Arthur Ross (Arthur Ross 

Foundation) 
Victoria P. and Roger W. Sant (The 

Summit Charitable Foundation, 

Inc.) 
Mr, B. Francis Saul II (Che\'y Chase 

Bank) 
Margaret Knowles Schink 
Ms. Harriet L. Schwartz (Harriet 

Schwartz & Associates, Inc.) 
Seiko Epson Corporation 
Shell International Petroleum 

Company Ltd. 
The Gertrude E. Skelly Charitable 

Foundation 
Mr. Robert C. fang, Q.C. 
Target Stores, the Department Store 

Division and Merwn's by the 

Dayton Hudson Corporation 
Time Inc. 

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Welters* 
•Xerox ('orporation 

$10,000 or more 

.\iu)ii\nu)us 

•Abbott 1 aboratories Fund 

aik:, Inc. 

Sir Valentine .\Ih1\ 

Mr, Roger Abolson 

Tlu' .'\hingtoii Foundation 



79 



Academy of Model Aeronautics 

The Ahmanson Foundation 

Alascom 

Mrs. Kathleen B. Allaire 

Allen & Company Incorporated 

Ms. Charmay B. AUred 

Alyeska Pipeline Service Company 

American Business for Environmental 

Leadership 
The American Foundation for Textile 

Art, Inc. 
American Federation of Teachers 
American Petroleum Institute 
The American University 
American Zoo & Aquarium 

Association 
Mr. Harold V. Andersen 
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Anderson 111 
Applied Energy Services, Inc. 
Arthur Andersen and Company LLP 
ASE Americas, Inc. 
Ashton-Potter Ltd. 
Association of Pakistani Physicians of 

North America 
Autodesk Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Balzer 
Banco Popular 
Bankers Trust Company 
The Beinecke Foundation, Inc. 
Bell Atlantic Corporation 
The Hon. and Mrs. Max N. Berry 
Mr. and Mrs. Jack S. Blanton (Scurlock 

Foundation) 
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Bradley* 
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen F. Brauer 

(Stephen F. and Camilla T Brauer 

Charitable Trust) 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 
BROAN a division of NORTEK 
Mr. Gerald E. Buck (Buck Investments) 
Ms. Joan Bull 
Bunge Corporation 
Charles E. Burchfield Foundation 
Ms. Uschi Butler 
Capital Re 

Mr. and Mrs. James R. Cargill 
Mr. Oliver T. Carr 
Castle Rock Entertainment 
Mrs. Nancy Castle 
Caterpillar, Inc. 
The Hon. Henry E. Catto (Catto 

Foundation) 
Cisco Systems, Inc. 
Citibank N.A. 

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Claussen 
The Coca-Cola Company 
Harryette Cohn Fund 
The Colbert Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. Lester Colbert Jr. 
Dr. John P. Comstock (Abigail Van 

Vleck Charitable Trust) 
Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Coneway 

(Coneway Family Foundation) 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Congdon 
Conservation, Food & Health 

Foundation, Inc. 
Coopers & Lybrand, LLP 



80 



Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cousins 

(Cousins Foundation, Inc.) 
Drs. William H. and Isabella CM. 

Cunningham 
Cyprus Amax Minerals Company 
Dade Community Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Daniels Jr. 

(Julia and Frank Daniels Fund) 
Mr. David L. Davies (Davies/Weeden 

Fund) 
Mr. and Mrs. Carl B. Davis 
S. Sydney DeYoung Foundation 
Mr. Joseph A. Di Palma 
Mr. and Mrs. David Dibner (The 

Dibner Fund, Inc.) 
Mr. Barry Diller (USA Networks 

Foundation, Inc.) 
Discover Financial Services, Inc. 
The Walt Disney Company 
Mr. Donald J. Douglass (The Douglass 

Foundation) 
The Max and Victoria Dreyfus 

Foundation Inc. 
Duggal Color Projects, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Dutton* 
Mrs. Anne C. Earhart (The Homeland 

Foundation) 
The Eberly Foundation and The Eberly 

Family Trust 
Ebrahimi Family Foundation 
Mr. Barney A. Ebsworth (The 

Ebsworth Foundation) 
Mr. Dean S. Edmonds III (Dean S. 

Edmonds Foundation) 
Electric Power Research Institute 
Empire State Development 

Corporation 
Encad, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. John Ernst (Richard C. & 

Susan B. Ernst Foundation Inc.) 
Exxon Corporation 
The Feinberg Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. George M. Ferris Jr. 

(George M. Ferris Jr. Foundation) 
Elizabeth Firestone-Graham 

Foundation 
Ella Fitzgerald Charitable Foundation 
Reuben H. Fleet Foundation Fund 
Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc. 
Ms. Barbara G. Fleischman 
Mrs. Leslie S. Fogg III 
Mr. John Dulin Folger 
Juliet and Lee Folger (The Folger 

Fund)* 
Forstmann Little & Company 
Mrs. Joanne Foster 
Mrs. Daniel Fraad 
Mr. James S. Frank 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Fri 
Fundacion Smithsonian de Panama 
Ms. Caroline D. Gabel 
Mrs. Aileen Garrett 
Mr. William Gates III (William H. 

Gates Foundation) 
General Atlantic Partners, LLC 
General Electric Aircraft Engines 
Mr. David W. Gengler 



Georgia Tech Foundation, Inc. 

Mr. Bert A. Getz (Globe Foundation) 

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell Jr. 

The Gold Institute 

Government Development Bank for 

Puerto Rico 
The Ansley I. Graham Trust 
Greening America 
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick W. Gross 
Mr. and Mrs. Peter E. Haas Sr. (Miriam 

& Peter Haas Fund) 
Hair Research Society 
Ms. Emiko Hakuta 
Mr. Hugh Halff Jr. 
Florence P. Hamilton Foundation 

Agency 
The Phil Hardin Foundation 
Mr. Alan Hartman 
HBO & Company 
Mrs. Patrick Healy III (M.A. Healy 

Family Foundation, Inc.) 
Mr. J. Roderick Heller III 
Mr. Robert F. Hemphill Jr. 
Mr. Brian C. McK. Henderson 
Mr. Alan J. Hirschfleld 
Volker HoUmann-Schirrmacher 
Hong Kong Economic & Trade Office 
Mr. and Mrs. S. Roger Horchow 
Mr. Rampa R. Hormel 
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz 
Hughes Aircraft Company 
ILA Foundation, Chicago 
Imperial Wallcoverings, Inc. 
Interface Inc. 

International Paper Company 
Johnson Matthey 
J.M. Kaplan Fund, Inc. 
Mr. Gene A. Keluche (Communication 

Resources, Inc.) 
Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall 
Klein & Saks, Inc. 
Kmart Corporation 
Mrs. Marie L. Knowles 
KOLBUS America Inc. 
KPMG Peat Marwick 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Krissel 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Krueger (Peter 

Krueger-Christie's Foundation) 
Ms. Elaine La Roche 
Mrs. Emily Fisher Landau 
Lannan Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Philip A. Lathrap 
Lee Enterprises, Inc. 
Mr. Thomas H. Lee 
Mr. Robert B. Lehrman (Jacob & 

Charlotte Lehrman Foundation, 

Inc.) 
Lemberg Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Melvin Lenkin (Thelma 

& Melvin Lenkin Family Charitable 

Foundation Inc.) 
Levi Strauss & Company 
Mr. and Mrs. Aaron Levine (Law 

Offices — Aaron M. Levine) 
William & Nora Lichtenberg 

Foundation, Inc. 
Mrs. Gail K. Liebes 



The Link Foundation 

Mr. and Mrs. R. Robert Linowes (R. 

Robert Linowes and Ada H. Linowes 

Fund) 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Linton 
Lockheed Martin Missiles & Space 
Joe and Emily Lowe Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Lubin (The 

Barr Fund) 
Mr. & Mrs. Peter Lunder 
Mrs. Elizabeth S. MacMillan 
Ms. Holly Madigan (Madigan Family 

Foundation) 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank N. Magid (Frank . 

N. Magid Associates, Inc.) 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Malott 
Nancy and Edwin Marks (The Marks 

Family Foundation) 
Marpat Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. Frank Martucci 
Masco Corporation 
Mr. Richard Meier (The Richard Meier 

Foundation) 
Merck & Co., Inc. 

Merck Institute for Science Education 
Merrill Lynch & Co. Foundation, Inc. 
LuEsther T. Mertz Fund 
Metropolitan Center for Eastern Art 

Studies 
The Robert & Bethany Millard 

Charitable Foundation 
Min Chiu Society 
Missouri Botanical Garden 
Monsanto Company 
J. P. Morgan & Company, Inc. 
Mrs. Yoshiko Mori 
Mr. Mario M. Morino (Mario Morino 

Fund) 
Mr. John M. Morss 
Mr. Rupert Murdoch 
Museo de Arte 
Museum Loan Network 
NAMSB Foundation, Inc. 
National Association of Secondary 

School Principals 
National Education Association 
National Geographic Society 
National Postal Forum 
National Retail Federation 
NationsBank Fund, Charitable 

Foundation 
Natural Heritage Trust 
New York Power Authority 
New York Stock Exchange, Inc. 
Newmont Mining Corporation 
Mrs. Paul M. Niebell Sr. 
El Nuevo Dia 

Oasis Clinic, a division of CMAC, Inc 
Orbital Sciences Corporation 
Orkin Pest Control 
Ms. Virginia J. Ortega 
Mr. and Mrs. David M. Osnos 
Ostrolenk, Faber, Berb & Soffen, LLP 
PaineWebber Group Incorporated 
Peabody Holding Company, Inc. 
Mr. Gerald P. Peters (Gerald Peters 

Gallery Inc.) 



Il 



i 



I 



Mrs. Elizabeth H. Pfister 
Phillips Petroleum Company 
The Pinkerton Foundation 
Pioneer Hi-Bred International 
Mr. and Mrs. Abe Pollin 
Hazen Polsky Foundation, Inc. 
Dr. and Mrs. Meyer P. Potamkin 
Mr. and Mrs. William Potter (Wm. A. 

& Ronnie N. Potter Philanthropic 

Fund) 
Mr. and Mrs. Heinz C. Prechter (World 

Heritage Foundation) 
Prentice Hall Computer Publishing 
Mrs. Charles H. Price II 
Quantum Corporation 
Purina Mills 

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey W. Rambach 
RCPI Trust 

The Christopher Reynolds Foundation 
Mr. Edward Hart Rice (The Rice Family 

Foundation, Inc.) 
Ms. Ann R. Roberts 
Mr. John R. Robinson 
Sara Roby Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. William D. Rollnick 

(William D. and Nancy Ellison 

Rollnick Foundation) 
Mr. Samuel G. Rose 
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel J. Rosenfeld 
Mrs. Polly Rubin 
The May and Samuel Rudin Family 

Foundation 
Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler 
The Saint Paul Foundation 
Samsung America, Inc. 
SBC Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd G. Schermer 

(Philip and Henrietta Adler 

Foundation) 
Ms. Helen G. Schneider 
Mr. Richard J. Schwartz (David 

Schwartz Foundation, Inc.) 
Searle 

Securities Industry Association, Inc. 
Nina & Ivan Selin Family Foundation, 

Inc. 
Sequent Computer Systems, Inc. 
Mr. Harezo Shimizu 
Showtime The Movie Channel 
Siemens Hearing Instruments 
Mr. and Mrs. David M. Silfen (David & 

Lyn Silfen Foundation) 
Silver Dollar City Inc. 
Mr. Theodore J. Slavin 
Mr. and Mrs. Franchon M. Smithson 
Irene Sorrough 
Sprint 

Mr. and Mrs. Terry Stent 
Jennie Stoddard Charitable Trust Fund 
Ms. Helen D'Olier Stowell 
Mr. Kelso F. Sutton 
TAAPI 

Tamiya America, Inc. 
Dr. and Mrs. Paul Tarver (Tarver 

Family Fund) 
A. Alfred Taubman (Taubnian 

Eiulowinent lor the Arts) 



Teknion, Inc. 

Ms. Ann Tenenbaum 

Texaco 

Thacher Proffitt and Wood 

Thaw-Collection-Fenimore House 

Museum 
Time Warner, Inc. 
Ms. Rita Tishman (Norman-Rita 

Tishman Fund, Inc.) 
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. 
Troop Steuber Pasich Reddick & 

Tobey, LLP 
U.S. -Mexico Fund for Culture 
Unico Banking Group 
Unite! 

The Vantive Corporation 
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz 
Wallis Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. John T. Walton 
Mr. and Mrs. Milton H. Ward 
Warren Wilson College 
Washington Gas Light Co. 
The Washington Post Company 
Mr. John D. Weeden (Davies/Weeden 

Fund) 
Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation 
Mrs. Eileen A. Wells 
WEM Foundation 
Herbert B. West Fund 
The Wildlife Conservation Fund of 

The Walt Disney Company 
Wisconsin Sesquicentennial 

Commission 
Ms. Estelle R. Wolf 
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn 

(Wolfensohn Family Foundation) 
Woohak Cultural Foundation 
World Wide Fund for Nature Malaysia 
World Wildlife Fund-UK 
Mrs. Gay F. Wray (Roger S. Firestone 

Foundation) 
Mr. Robert Zapart 
Mrs. Nancy Behrend Zirkle 
Zurich Kemper Investments 

$5,000 or more 

Anonymous 

A&H Sportswear Co., Inc. 

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald D. Abramson 

Dr. and Mrs. Bruce M. Alberts 

Ms. Ann Simmons Alspaugh 

Mr. Arthur G. Altschul (Overbrook 

Foundation) 
American Investment Company 
Amtrend Corporation 
J. Aron Charitable Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. Arthur W. Arundel (AWA Family 

Foundation) 
Asian Cultural Council, Inc. 
Bajaj Family Foundation 
Mr. Michael Baly 111 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Barwick 
Mr. Riley P. Bechtel (Bechtel 

I'oundation) 
Mr. and Mrs. Willi. mi lU'iiTwaltes 
Bell Atlantic l-ouiulation 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Bloom 



Support for Online Innovation 



^ 



Can an electronic museum experience be just as 
enjoyable as the real thing? As online technology 
and content continue their explosive growth, a 
Smithsonian program called Smithsonian Without 
Walls is testing the possibilities. The challenge is to 
create engaging Internet presentations that capture 
the sense of wonder and discovery visitors feel 
when they come face-to-face with real objects in 
museum exhibitions. 

With generous support from the Rockefeller Foun- 
dation and the Merck Family Fund, the program has 
launched the prototype for "Revealing Things," an 
inventive online exhibition about the multiple mean- 
ings of everyday objects {www.si.edu/revealingthings). 
A pair of patched bellbottom jeans, a chemistry set, 
and a Victorian-era gas meter are Just a few of the wr 
objects presented in the prototype. Using Smith- 
sonian collections and scholarship along with mate- 
rial from other museums and collections, the exhibi- 
tion will combine text, graphics, narration, and music. 

Broad-based support is essential for innovative 
projects like "Revealing Things," which test the 
boundaries of public education and outreach. Smith- 
sonian Without Walls receives no federal funds and 
raises all program and operating expenses from 
outside sources. The Rockefeller Foundation and 
the Smithsonian National Board currently provide 
program support. 



Bloomberg Financial Markets, 

Commodities and News 
Laura Boulton Foundation Inc. 
Mrs. Fleur S. Bresler 
Mr. Eli Broad (The Eli Broad Family 

Foundation) 
Ms. Sheridan Brown (The Sheridan 

Brown Fund) 
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Bunker 
The Calvin Klein Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. David V. Capes 
Ms. Elizabeth Catto 
Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund 
The Chase Manhattan Foundation 
Chevron Corporation 
Mr. and Mrs. Willard G. t:iark 
The Hon. Barber B. Cxmablejr. 
Ms. Nancy I., ("oiinor 
The ('ouncil for F.xcellenco In 

Government 
Cousins Fouiul.itidii, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Roger E. Covey 
Mr. Eldon Oowell 



Mr. H. King Cummings (King and Jean 

Cummings Charitable Trust) 
Edward S. Curtis Foundation 
Deloitte & Touche LLP 
Denver Zoological Foundation, Inc. 
Dewey Ballantine LLP 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Dickey Jr. 
En Pointe Technologies 
J. Epstein Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. George J. Fan (Kathcrine 

and George Fan Foundation) 
Federal National Mortgage Association 
Alfred and Harriet I'oinman 

Foundation 
Mr. Bertram Fields and Ms. Barbara 

Ciiiggenheim 
Mrs. Dielle Fleischmaiin tlhe 

Monomoy Fund) 
Mr. Thomas G. Fhnn (Bechtel 

Foundation) 
Ms. Anne Forbes 
Mrs. Daniel I'raad (Rita {^ Daniel 1 raad 

Foundation, Inc.) 



81 



Mr. and Mrs. Morton Funger 
Ms. Nely Galan (gaLAn 

entertainment) 
General Re Corporation 
Geo-Etka, Inc. 
The Hon. Sumner Gerard (Sumner 

Gerard Foundation) 
The German Marshall Fund of the 

United States 
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty (Ann & 

Gordon Getty Foundation) 
Mrs. John T. Gibson 
Ms. Catherine S. Gidlow 
Mr. George J. Gillespie III 
Dr. Margaret Goodman 
Ms. Elizabeth Gordon 
Grey Advertising, Inc. 
Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin 
Ms. Agnes S. Gund (Agnes Gund 

Charitable Account) 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Haas (San 

Francisco Foundation) 
Mr. and Mrs. Ben Hammett 
Harnischfeger Industries Inc. 
Hawthorn Corp. 
Mrs. Drue M. Heinz 
Mr. Paul Hertelendy (Gramp 

Foundation) 
Dr. W. Ronald Heyer 
Mr. Samuel J. Heyman 
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Hill (Berry-Hill 

Galleries, Inc.) 
The Clarence and Jack Himmel 

Foundation 
Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn (Olga & 

Joseph H. Hirshhorn Foundation, 

Inc.) 
Mr. and Mrs. Noriyoshi Horiuchi 
Interchange Standards Corporation 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. James 
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Karatz 
The Katzenberger Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. Walter Keating 
Mr. and Mrs. William G. Kerr (The 

Robert S. & Grayce B. Kerr 

Foundation, Inc.) 
Mr. and Mrs. James W. Kinnear 
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney 
Mr. Werner H. Kramarsky (The Fifth 

Floor Foundation) 
Ladies Auxiliary to the VFW of U.S. 
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Lally 
Mr. and Mrs. Jon Landau 
Ms. Hilva Baillie Landsman (A.R. 

Landsman Foundation, Inc.) 
Alvin S. Lane, Esq. (The Alvin S. Lane 

Family Fund) 
The Lasa Foundation 
Dr. Thomas Lawton 
The Hon. and Mrs. Marc Leland (Marc 

E. Leland Foundation) 
Ms. Sandy Lerner 
Mrs. Howard W. Lipman (Howard & 

Jean Lipman Foundation, Inc.) 
Littleton Coin and Stamp Company 
Mrs. Jean Mahoney 
Maiden Mills Industries 



Barbara and Morton Mandel (Morton 

and Barbara Mandel Family 

Foundation) 
Margery and Edgar Masinter (Margery 

and Edgar Masinter Fund) 
Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy (Nan Tucker 

McEvoy Foundation, Inc.) 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. McGuigan 
MCJ Foundation 
Mr. Robert L. McNeil Jr. (The Barra 

Foundation, Inc.) 
Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Mennello 
Dr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Miller 
Dr. Allen M. Mondzac 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul S. Morgan 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas D. MuUins 
Mystic Stamp Company 
National Society of the Children of 

the American Revolution 
NationsBank, N.A. 
Neuberger & Berman 
Mr. and Mrs. Lucio A. Noto 
Ralph E. Ogden Foundation, Inc. 
Orange County Museum of Art 
Orimono Interiors 
Mr. James E. Pehta 
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald L. Pearson 

(Pearson Art Foundation, Inc.) 
J.C. Penney Company, Inc. 
PEPCO 

Phelps Dodge Corporation 
Philip Morris Companies, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank N. Piasecki 
Podesta Associates, Inc. 
Mrs. John Alexander Pope 
Ms. Kathleen A. Preciado 
Puerto Rico Federal Affairs 

Administration 
Mr. and Mrs. Morris S. Pynoos 
The Henry & Henrietta Quade 

Foundation 
The Reader's Digest Association, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Reed Jr. (Reed 

Foundation) 
Sanae I. and Douglas F. Reeves 
Mary Livingston Ripley Charitable 

Lead Trust* 
Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth X. Robbins 
Karol Kirberger Rodriguez 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob 
Theodore Roosevelt Association 
Mrs. Lucile Rosenbaum 
Mr. Robert Rosenkranz and Ms. 

Alexandra Munroe (The Rosenkranz 

Foundation) 
Benjamin J. Rosenthal Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Milton F. Rosenthal 
Helena Rubinstein Foundation 
Mary A. H. Rumsey Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Clive Runnells 
Dr. Elizabeth Sackler 
Mrs. Else Sackler 
Mr. and Mrs. James Sams (The James 

& Betty Sams Family Foundation) 
Mrs. Diane Schafer 
Shandwick 
Kathy Daubert Smith 



Mr. Ira Spanierman 

Mrs. Ann M. Stack 

Stag's Leap Wine Cellars 

Mr. and Mrs. Michael H. Steinhardt 

(The Judy & Michael Steinhardt 

Foundation) 
Mr. Leon Strauss (Strauss Charitable 

Fund) 
Mrs. H. William Tanaka (H. William 

Tanaka and Lily Y. Tanaka 

Foundation) 
Trizechahn Centers Management, Inc. 
U.S. Airways Group Inc. 
Van-American Insurance Company 
Mr. Lucien Van de Velde 
Veterans of Foreign Wars of the U.S. 
Mrs. Beatrice A. von Gontard 
The Hon. and Mrs. Frank A. Weil 

(Hickrill Foundation, Inc.) 
Wenner-Gren Foundation for 

Anthropological Research 
WGBH Educational Foundation 
Mr. Richard E. Whalen and Ms. Nancy 

Mattson 
Mr. William F. Whalen 
Mr. Eli Wilner and Ms. Barbara 

Brennan (Eli Wilner & Company, 

Inc.) 
Winn Feline Foundation 
Robert H. Winn Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. T. Evans Wyckoff (TEW 

Foundation) 

$2,000 or more 

Anonymous 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Abeles (Joseph 

and Sophia Abeles Foundation) 
Mr. Davey L. Adams, Jr. 
Mr. Warren J. Adelson 
Alabama Zoological Society 
The Aleut Corporation 
Aleutian Pribilof Islands Association, 

Inc. 
ALFA 

American Express Foundation 
American Hospital Association 
Anne Corporation 
Applied Electronics (OEM) Ltd. 
ARCO Foundation, Inc. 
Arquitectonica International Corp. 
BankAmerica Foundation 
Ms. Donna Barnett 
Harry Bass Foundation 
Bell & Howell Phillipsburg Co. 
Mr. and Mrs. Berry Bergman (BJNB 

Foundation, Inc.) 
Bishop Museum 
BMW of North America, Inc. 
Mrs. Esther S. Bondareff 
Book-of-the-Month Club, Inc. 
Mrs. Howard Booth 
Booz Allen & Hamilton 
Mrs. Ruth Bowman (Ruth Bowman 

Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish 

Communal Fund) 
Mrs. Teresa Bressler 
The British Embassy 



1 



II 



Broadcast Music, Inc. 

Dr. Irving F. Burton 

Central Pacific Bank 

Mrs. Hope S. Childs 

Dr. and Mrs. Timothy W. Childs 

Citicorp 

Mr. and Mrs. Brice M. Clagett 

Coat & Suit Industry Trust Fund 

Coeur d'Alene Mines Corporation 

Mrs. Joan Lebold Cohen 

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin I. Colodny 

Conservation Treaty Support Fund 

Corning Inc. 

Ms. Harriett M. Crosby 

Dr. Worth B. Daniels Jr. (The Jane i 

Worth B. Daniels Jr. Fund) 
Dart Industries, Inc. 
Dartmouth College 
Mrs. Dorothy S. Davidson 
Mr. and Mrs. George C. Dillon 
Docent Council of Freer Gallery 
Ms. Mary F. Dominiak 
Mr. and Mrs. Dale F. Dorn (Joseph H. 

Thompson Fund) 
Educational Broadcasting Corporation 
Mr. and Mrs. James G. Evans Jr. 
Mrs. Myron S. Falk Jr. 
Ms. Patricia H. Falk 
Mrs. Norman Farquhar 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Feder 
Dr. and Mrs. Horace Feldman 
Dr. Alan Fern and Mrs. Lois Fern 
First National Bank of Anchorage 
Mr. Paul C. Fisher 
Dr. James Marston Fitch 
Dr. Olivers. Flint Jr. 
Mary and Henry Flynt 
Folk Alliance 
Folklore Society of Greater 

Washington 
Ms. Rosemary L. Frankeberger 
Dr. and Mrs. Peter A. Freeman (The 

Hull Family Trust) 
Ms. Ellen L. Frost and Mr. William R 

Pedersen 
Fulbright & Jaworski 
General Electric Company 
Dr. Kurt A. Gitter and Ms. Alice Yelen 
Global Communications Network 
Mr. Leslie H. Goldberg (Leslie 

Goldberg Charity Fund) 
Mr. Robert C. Graham Jr. 
Mr. Victor Grahn 
Ms. Lumina Greenway 
Mrs. Heather Sturt Haaga 
Mr. John M. Haddow (Rita C. & John 

M. Haddow Family Foundation) 
Mr. and Mrs. George W. Haldeman 
Hannoch Weisman 
Mr. and Mrs. Erwin Harris 
The Hon. and Mrs. John W. 

Hechinger Sr. 
Mr. Norris Hekimian 
The Hon. and Mrs. Richard M. Helms 
Mr. and Mrs. William G. Herbster 
Mr. and Mrs. R W. Herlitz 
Mr. and Mrs. David Hess 



82 



Ms. Robyn Horn 

Sir Joseph E. Hotung 

Howard University Hospital 

Mr. John K. Howat 

Illinois Tool Works Foundation 

David and Pat Jernigan 

Mr. and Mrs. Philip C. Jessup Jr. 

Johnson & Johnson 

Mr. and Mrs. Stanton Jue 

Mr. David Woods Kemper 11, Mr. and 

Mrs. James M. Kemper Jr. (The 

David Woods Kemper Memorial 

Foundation) 
Ken Smith and Associates 
Ms. Marie-Louise Kennedy 
Kerr-McGee Corporation 
Mrs. Nighat A. Khan 
The Kiplinger Foundation 
Mr. Sam Kito Jr. (Kito Inc.) 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod 
Lt. Col. William K. and Mrs. Alice S. 

Konze (Alice Stockton Konze Fund) 
Embassy of Korea 

Ms. Elizabeth R Kosky (Skycraft, Inc.) 
Mr. and Mrs. James D. Krissel 
Mr. Jatinder Kumar, trustee of APCA 
Mr. Albert G. Lauber Jr. and Mr. Craig 

W. Hoffman 
Dr. Timothy Lehmann 
Leica, Inc. 

Drs. Edmund and Julie Lewis 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert V. Lindsay 
Lippincott & Margulies 
Long Bow Group, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Yo-yo Ma 
Mars Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Tom Marsh 
Dr. Wayne N. Mathis 
The Hon. James A. McClure (McClure 

for U.S. Senator Committee) 
Mr. and Mrs. William P. McClure 
Mrs. Priscilla M. McDougal 
Mr. Terence Mclnerney 
Mr. and Mrs. Arnold B. McKinnon 
Mr. Paul Mellon 
Mr. and Mrs. John R. Menke 
Metropolitan Center for Far Eastern 

Art Studies 
Mexican Government Tourism Office 
Dianne and Kenneth Miller 
Mr. George Miller 
Mrs. Madge R. Minton 
Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.) 
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Monrose 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Moore 
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. 
Ms. Justine Simon! Mullet 
Mysdyscs Inc. 
National Association of Postmasters of 

the United States 
NEC America, Inc. 
Dr. Dan H. Nicolson 
Dr. and Mrs. Stanton P Nolan 
Norfolk Southern Corporation 
Northwest Mining Association 
Mr. Aivin F, Oienjr. 
Ounalashka Corporation 



Ms. Machiko Oyama and Mr. 

Toshihiko Okoshi 
Pasadena Art Alliance 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank H. Pearl 
Mrs. Mary Pendleton 
Ms. Antoinette Peskoff 
Philip Morris 
Mr. Elliott 1. Pollock 
Mrs. Lewis T. Preston 
Mr. Gregory Primm 
Ms. Judy Lynn Prince 
Dr. William C. Ramsay (C.B. Ramsay 

Foundation, Inc.) 
Dr. and Mrs. David Raphling 
Mr. Elmer Rasmuson 
Mrs. Carol Ray 
Mr. and Mrs. John Richards 
Ms. Carol S. Rodricks 
Mrs. Yvonne Roth 
Dr. Marietta Lutze Sackler 
Mr. and Mrs. David Salty 
Mr. Robert Schaeffer 
Mr. Gary Schenk and Ms. Betty Anne 

Schreiber 
Dr. and Mrs. Rolf G. Scherman 
Mr. and Mrs. Iwao Setsu (Setsu Gatodo 

Co., Ltd.) 
M. Sigmund & Barbara K. Shapiro 

Family Fund 
Mr. And Mrs. Paul Shatz 
Dr. and Mrs. Robert L. Sherman 
Mrs. Richard E. Sherwood 
Mr. and Mrs. James Shinn 
Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey R. Short Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Dominic E Shortino 
Mr. and Mrs. Manuel Silberstein 
Mrs. John Farr Simmons 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter A. Simmons 
Mr. and Mrs. H. Robert Slusser 
Mr. and Mrs. E. Maynard Smith 
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth L. Smith 
Mr. Theodore R. Stanley (Theodore & 

Vada Stanley Foundation) 
Mr. Henry M. Strong 
Dr. J. Mark Sublette 
Riley K. Temple, Esq. 
Dr. and Mrs. F. Christian Thompson 
Mr. B. Ray Thompson Jr. 
Ms. Judith C. Thompson 
Lady Judith Ogden Thomson 
Mr. and Mrs. Clayton Timmons 
TRW, Inc. 
Tupperware 

Turner Broadcasting System Inc. 
Ms. Virginia Ullman 
Ms. Ellen Van Dernoot 
Mr. Jerry D. Vanier 
Beatrix and Ladislaus von Hoffmann 
C;ol. Harold Vorhies 
Mr. Steven C. Walske 
Walt Disney World Company 
Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey N. Watanabe 
Mr. and Mrs. (iuy Weill 
The Hon. C^aspar W. Weinberger 
Mr. Edward A. Weinstcin (Edward A. 

and Sandra R. Welnstein 

Philanthropic Fund) 




Secretary I. Michael Heyman 
greets Marie Knowles, 
executive vice-president and 
chief financial officer of ARCO 
and keynote speaker, during 
the Corporate Membership 
Program luncheon in May. 
(Photograph by Hugh Tnlmnn) 



83 



Preserving the Star-Spangled Banner 

The Star-Spangled Banner — an American icon and a 
great treasure of the national collections — is under- 
going what may be the largest single textile conser- 
vation effort ever undertaken by a museum. The 
three-year project, which is recognized by the White 
House Millennium Council's Save America's Trea- 
sures program, has attracted wide public attention, 
as well as generous support from corporations, 
foundations, and individuals. 

Polo Ralph Lauren pledged $10 million to the 
National Museum of American History, the single 
largest corporate gift ever received by the Smith- 
sonian Institution in its 152-year history. 

"The flag is an inspiration for all Americans," said 
Ralph Lauren, chairman and CEO of Polo Ralph Lau- 
ren Corporation. "It captures the dreams and Imagi- 
nation of men and women all over the world. I am a 
product of the American dream, and the flag is its 
symbol. We at Polo Ralph Lauren are incredibly 
honored to be able to make this possible." 

The flag preservation project is also supported by 
a $5 million grant from the Pew Charitable Trusts 
and a special $3 million appropriation from the 
Congress of the United States. 

Other organizations that had contributed to the 
flag by the close of fiscal year 1998 include the John 
S. and James L. Knight Foundation, the Brown Foun- 
dation, Ivan and Nina Selin Family Foundation, Susan 
and Elihu Rose Foundation, Warren Winiarski and 
family, Montgomery Watson Americas, Robert 
Hemphill, Abell-Hanger Foundation, Rockwell Fund, 
the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Ladies Auxiliary to 
the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the Society for 
the War of 1812. 

The complex preservation process involves first 
wrapping the Star-Spangled Banner in protective 
fabric and carefully removing it from the metal 
framework that has supported it since 1963. Then a 
team of conservators, led by Suzanne Thomassen- 
Krauss, will examine the flag and develop a compre- 
hensive treatment plan. Early in 1999 it will be 
moved to a custom-designed lab in the museum for 
conservation work. 

When the 185-year-old flag returns to public view 
in 2002, it will have been cleaned, restored, and 
installed in a four-story climate-controlled display 
case — all made possible through Smithsonian part- 
nerships that preserve America's treasures for the 
public to enjoy. 



Mr. Julius Wile 

Mr. and Mrs. Norman C. Willcox 
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson 
Mr. Paul Wolk 

Wright Machine Tool Company Inc. 
Zoo Atlanta 

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Zucker (Lotty 
Zucker Foundation) 

SMITHSONIAN 
CORPORATE 
MEMBERSHIP PROGRAM 

The Smithsonian Corporate 
Membership Program is a national 
initiative through which corporations 
provide unrestricted support to 
Smithsonian education, research, and 
exhibition initiatives. 

Proud Partners of the 150th 
Anniversary Celebration 

DISCOVER® CARD 

INTEL CORPORATION 

MCI COMMUNICATIONS 
CORPORATION 

TRANS WORLD AIRLINES, INC. 

Corporate Members 

ABC, Inc. 

American Investments Holding USA 

Anheuser-Busch Companies 

ARCO 

AT&T 

Bayer Corporation 

BellSouth Corporation 

Booz, Allen & Hamilton, Inc. 

BP America 

Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. 

The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 

CH2M Hill 

Christie's, Inc. 

The Coca-Cola Company 

Concert Management Services, Inc. 

Daimler-Benz A.G. 

DataWorks 

The Walt Disney Company 

DuPont 

EQUANT Network Services, Inc. 

Exxon Corporation 

Ford Motor Company 

The Freeman Companies 

General Electric Company 

Global One 

Goldman, Sachs & Co. 

Hitachi Limited 

Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc. 

Hunter Engineering Company 

The Jaques Admiralty Law Firm 

S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. 

Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc. 

The Kansai Electric Power Company, 

Inc. 
KPMG Peat Marwick LLP 
Lee Enterprises, Inc. 
Litton Industries 
Liz Claiborne, Inc. 



Mars Incorporated 

Marubeni Corporation 

Met Life 

Mitsubishi Public Affairs Committee 

Mobil Corporation 

NEC Corporation 

Nestle Food Services 

New York Lawyers for the Public 

Interest 
Novartis Corporation 
Pfizer Inc 

The Phillips Group 
PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Raytheon Company 
SBC Communications, Inc. 
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom 

LLP 
Sony Corporation of America 
Southern Company 
Sprint 

Riggs Bank N.A. 
Texas Instruments 
The Tokyo Electric Power Company 
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. 
U.S. Bank 
Xerox Corporation 

JAMES SMITHSON 
SOCIETY 

James Smithson Society members 
share a deep commitment to the 
dynamic unfolding of James 
Smithson's vision. The society's dues 
and special gifts provide unrestricted 
support for the Smithsonian's 
research, exhibitions, and educational 
programs. 

Endowed Life Members 

Anonymous 

Pearl Bell and Col. Billie G. Matheson, 

USAF Ret. 
Karen and Edward Burka 
Ms. Ruth Boyer Compton 
Mr. and Mrs. Dean S. Edmonds 
Mr. Daniel D. Gilbert 
Mrs. Alton B. Grimes 
William Logan Hopkins 
Richard and Elaine Kaufman 
Lt. Col. and Mrs. William K. Konze 
Gilbert and Jaylee Mead 
Anton H. Rosenthal and Ruth E. 

Canister 
Catherine F. Scott 
Shelby Shapiro 
Mr. J. Henry Sheffield 
Mrs. Virginia Sheffield 
Mrs. Shirley P. Sichel 

Annual Members 

$10,000 or more 

The Eberly Foundation 
Mr. Albert H. Gordon 
Ms. Lumina Greenway 
Mrs. Roy Johnson 



84 



Meriam McNiel 

C. Wesley and Jacqueline Peebles 

$5,000 or more 

Mrs. Robert Amory Jr. 

Ms. Nancy L. Connor 

Mr. and Mrs. James C. Day 

Therese and I. Michael Heyman 

Mr. Mark Miller 

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Moran 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Poor 

Philip and Elizabeth Reed 

Mr. and Mrs. John Watts Roberts 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Shatz 

Betty Rhoads Wright 

$2,000 or more 

Mrs. August Ackel 

Mr. Terry L. Albertson 

Miss Barbara Anne Ames 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Anderson 

Mr. Leonard Andrews 

Mr. and Mrs. Rudolph Arkin 

Mr. William Arndt 

Mrs. Jack R. Aron 

Ms. Barb Audiss 

Mr. Robert J. Barker 

Mr. E. William Harnett 

J. F. Barre 

Rhoda and Jordan Baruch 

Jonathan Baum 

Albert Beekhuis Foundation 

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Beeman 

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Beggs 

Mr. Michael E. Bershaw 

Mr. Michael D. Bielucki 

The Hon. and Mrs. Robert O. Blake 

Mr. John H. Blazek 

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Block 

Mr. and Mrs. William J. D. Bond 

J. A. Boorman 

Mrs. Howard M. Booth 

Mr. Bennett Boskey 

Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie 

Col. Donald S. Bowman 

Ms. Rebecca A. Bowman 

Charles and Fleur Bresler 

Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks 

Mrs. Keith S. Brown 

Mr. J. Kevin Buchi and Dr. Kathleen 

Buchi 
George E. and Clare M. Burch 
Dr. Edwin W. Burnes 
Ms. Alice Green Burnctte 
The Hon. George H. W. Bush and Mrs. 

Bush 
Mrs. Helen Cabell and c:hristine 

Cabell 
Mr. Kenneth S. Cameron 
Phyllis H. Carey 
Mr. Donald W. Carl 
Mr. William Carlebach 
Mae ( :asner 
Dr. Jonathan L. Chang 
Col. and Mrs. George E. Chapin Jr. 
Ms. l.i Chu 

Mr. and Mrs. llrnest II, < iockroll 
Dr. and Mrs. David A. Colrin 



Melvin and Ryna Cohen 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Cooley 

Ms. Florence Corder- Witter 

Ms. Jean Coyne 

Mrs. Carole D. Crocker 

Gretchen Smith Crow 

Mrs. Joseph H. Davenport Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Barry and Nora Davis 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Alfred Davis 

Anna M. Day 

Kathleen and Eugene De Faico 

Ms. Ann Demitruk 

Mrs. Deborah J. Denefrio 

Geert M. DePrest and Laura Travis- 

DePrest 
Mr. and Mrs. Desi DeSimone 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. DiBona 
Douglas Dillon 
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Dixon 
Mr. and Mrs. Wesley M. Dixon Jr. 
Norbert and La Verne Doligalski 
Dr. William H. L. Dornette 
Ms. Diane M. Dudley 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Duncan Jr. 
Barton D. and DebraJ. Eberwein 
Rear Adm. (Ret.) and Mrs. Edward H. 

Eckelmeyer 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Edson 
Miss Babs Eisman 
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Elkins Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard England 
Col. Charles O. Eshelman 
Dorothy D. Eweson 
Mr. and Mrs. Michael L. Fayad 
Dr. and Mrs. James J. Ferguson Jr. 
Mr. Adrian E. Flatt, M.D., ER.C.S. 
Mary and Henry Flynt 
Mr. Philip E. Forest 
Ms. B. J. French 

Mr. CaryJ. Frieze and Mrs. Rose Frieze 
David Morgan Frost 
Virginia Sugg Furrow 
Mrs. L. J. Futchik 
Mrs. J. Gardiner 
Mr. Phil Gardner 
Michael and Susie Gelman 
Mary O'Brien Gibson 
Bonnie Gillespie 
Mr. and Mrs. David Ginkel 
Dr. and Mrs. Clarence Glenn 
Mr. Devon Graham 
George C. and Erna M. Graham 
Ms. Judith Grass 
Ms. (Catharine CJraton 
Mrs. John B. Greene 
Ms. Marion E. Greene 
Mrs. Ann Y. Grim 
Calvin and Marilyn B. Gross 
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick W. Gross 
Bruce Guthrie 
Mr. C;orbin Gwaltney 
Leslee Hackenson and Roger Allers 
Adeleand Donald ll.ill 
Stephen andjocelin llamblctt 
Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton 
Robert V. and Rita S. Ilanle 
Mr. Niles Hanson 
Ms. Helen I.eale llaipor Jr. 



Mrs. Jane Hart 

Mr. and Mrs. Max E. Hartl 

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert A. Hartman Jr. 

Miss Nancy A. Haynes 

Philip and Maureen Heasley 

The Hon. and Mrs. John Hechinger Sr. 

Mr. and Mrs. David Heebner 

Robert M. and Gladys E Henry 

Dr. and Mrs. David C. Hess 

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen O. Hessler 

Mrs. Virginia L. Hickman 

Mrs. Gloria Hidalgo 

Clara Jane Hill 

Mr. James T. Hines Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen A. Hopkins 

Mr. and Mrs. John Hrncir 

Mr. Tommy D. Hughes 

Mrs. Peter D. Humleker Jr. 

R. Bruce Hunter 

Mrs. Jane Hunter-MacMillan 

Mr. L. R. Ingels 

John B. Ippolito, Diane M. Laird- 

Ippolito 
Drs. Jay and Mary Anne Jackson 
David A. Jacques 
David and Pat Jernigan 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Johnson 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard J.V.Johnson 
Mrs. Roy Johnson 
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson 
W Johnson 
Mr. Robert A. Jones 
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley B. Jones 
Mr. Sheldon T. Katz 
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Kay 
Mr. Stephen C. Keeble 
Mr. Neil E. Kelley 
Ms. Jettie Kelly 
Anne B. Kennedy 
Dr. Rebecca Kenyon 
Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering 
Mr. Don Kiest 

Mr. and Mrs. Clark H. Kilhefner 
Dr. William M. King 
Mr. and Mrs. Norman V. Kinsey 
Scott A. Kisting 
Mr. Edward J. Kirby 
Mr. James M. Kline 
Ms. Elizabeth Gelman Kossow 
Robert E. and Elizabeth W. Krueger 
Mr. Bruce LaBoon 
Mrs. James S. Lacock 
Judge Marion Ladwig 
Edward and Beverley Lammerding 
Dr. and Mrs. Emanuel Landau 
Mrs. Stephens J. Lange 
Mrs. Marge Langworthy 
Mrs. William Leonhart 
Mr. and Mrs. William B. 1 o\in jr. 
Mrs. Jean C. Lindsey 
Mr. Bud Lindstrand 
Mr. Carl A. Lohmer 
Charles I'.. Long, EVP and Secretary, 

Citicorp/c:itibank 
Mr. Frank J. Lukowski 
Dr. Sti'wn l.un/er 
I'iImhiikI C. I nihIi |r. 
Ml. anil Mrs. Ired \V. I vims Jr. 



Mr. and Mrs. A. Bryan MacMillan 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Mahfouz 

Mr. and Mrs. Forrest E. Mars Jr. 

Ms. Virginia C. Mars 

Mary Martell and Paul M. Johnson 

Mr. Frederick P. Mascioli 

Maj. Gen. Raymond E. Mason Jr. and 

Margaret E. Mason 
Dr. Wayne Mathews 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias 
Ms. Vivian McCrary 
Mr. Clayton McCuistion 
Mr. and Mrs. John D. McLean 
Mrs. G. Walter McReynolds 
Scott McVay 
Mr. Paul Mellon 
Sue B. and Eugene Mercy Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Merriman 
His Excellency Sir Christopher Meyer 
Mr. and Mrs. Randall Meyer 
Mr. Ewing H. Miller and 

Ms. Donna Ari 
Mr. George H. Miller 
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert S. Miller 
Jerry M. Miller and Dorothy T. Miller 
Mr. and Mrs. Olan Mills II 
Mr. Peter Monrose 
Mr. and Mrs. James Robert 

Montgomery 
Mr. Robert E. Mortensen 
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth F. Mountcastle 
Dr. J. Andrew MulhoUand 
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Munroe 
Mr. and Mrs. John Murphy 
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond E. Murray 
Mr. H. Duane Nelson 
Mrs. Frances Newman 
Mary L. Nucci and Abraham 

Abuchowski 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles O'Connell 
Dr. and Mrs. J. Dennis O'Connor 
James D. Oglevee and Susan Marie 

Halliday 
Beverly H. and William P O'Hara 
William and Jean O'Neill 
Mr. and Mrs. Steven R Paes 
Christine M. and Gregory J. 

Parseghian 
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry M. Paulson Jr. 
Peacock Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. Scott D. Pearson and Ms. Diani 

Parrel I 
Mrs. Mary V. Pendleton 
Mr. J. Liddon Pennockjr. 
John L. and Carolyn J. Peterson 
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony G. Petrello 
George and Sally Plllsbury 
Mr. John Pitts 
Jane V. Plakias 
Ms. Carol Pochanlt 
Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. PolskyH ho 

l'olsk\ I'oiinilatioii 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry I'osnei jr. 
The Rev. and Mrs. Charles Price 
Mr, and Mrs, \Vlia\iH' S, Quin 
tU.iire and John Kadway 
Mr. Elmer Rasiruisoii 



85 



Mr. Dan Rather 

Mrs. Carol H. Ray 

Mr. and Mrs. Michael F. Reagan 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward H. Rice 

Mr. Peter B. Ridder 

Mrs. Carlyn Ring 

Ms. Gay A. Roane 

Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts 

Ms. Nancy J. Robertson and Mr. Mark 

N. Cookingham 
Mr. Arthur Rock 
Senator and Mrs. John D. 

Rockefeller IV 
Mrs. I. Alfred Rosenbaum Jr. 
Mrs. Yvonne W. Roth 
Marya Rowan 
Ms. Marcia Rubenstein 
Mr. and Mrs. Marcos Russek 
Mr. William R. Salomon 
Vicki and Roger Sant 
Mr. Fayez Sarofim 
Albert and Thelma Sbar 
Ambassador James H. Scheuer and 

Emily Malino Scheuer 
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas R. Scheumann 
Roger R and Nancy L. Schlemmer 
Mr. and Mrs. Harold J. Schnitzer 
Elizabeth and Edwin Schreiber 
Frank and Emily Scott 
Mrs. Robert D. Scott 
Mr. and Mrs. S. Norman Seastedt 
Mr. and Mrs. David M. Shapiro 
Mr. and Mrs. Marc J. Shapiro 
Mr. Winslow T. Shearman 
Ms. Virginia B. Shimer 
Allan E. Shore 

Mr. and Mrs. Alan B. Showalter 
Mr. Frank Shrontz 
Mr. Charles Siegel 
Simpson FSB Fund 
Ms. Tammy Sisson 
Mrs. David E. Skinner 
Dr. and Mrs. Harvey C. Slocum Jr. 
Gretchen Smith Crow 
Dr. Frank O. Smith 
Gen. and Mrs, William Y. Smith 
Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Sonnenreich 
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Sparks 
Harriet and Edson Spencer 
Mr. and Mrs. John Stack 
Mr. Bernie Stadiem 
Mr. Sydney Staffin 
Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm T. Stamper 
Dr. Marjorie L. Stein 
Ann C. Stephens 

Mr. and Mrs. William C. SterhngJr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. J. Stewart 
Mr. and Mrs. Franz T. Stone 
Mr. Roy T. Strainge 
Mr. Ernest C. Swigert 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Tate 
Ms. Marjorie E. Thomas 
Mr. Randell C. Thomas 
Mr. Glenn F Tilton 
Mr. Stephen Tilton 
Mrs. Helen Brice Trenckmann 
Mrs. Alice Truland 
Mr. James F. Turner 



Mr. Mike Turner 

Ms. Evelyn Twigg-Smith 

Mr. M. S. Ursino 

Col. and Mrs. W. G. Van Allen 

Mr. and Mrs. L. Von Hoffmann 

Col. Harold W. Vorhies 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Waidner 

Mr. and Mrs. Steve Wasserman 

Mr. James R. Webb 

Craig and Catherine Weston 

Miss Winifred E. Weter 

Mr. Lawrence J. Whelan and Dr. 

Deborah Black 
Mr. and Mrs. Ben White 
Ms. Beverly White 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald W. White 
Mr. John C. Whitehead 
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Wilkerson 
Mr. Wesley S. Williams Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Michael T. Willis 
Mr. and Mrs. Herman T. Wilson Jr. 
Ms. Kirsten Wilson 
Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson 
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson 
Joseph G. and Michael M. Wirth 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Womble 
Mrs. Jane Ludwig Worley 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Wright 
Ms. Alice Wrobleski 
Mrs. Charlotte S. Wyman 
Ellen and Bernard Young 
Mary L. Zicarelli 
Mrs. Nancy Behrend Zirkle 
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick 

Life Members 

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton 

David K. Anderson 

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson 

Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo 

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo 

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert Axelrod 

Richard R. Bains 

Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow 

Mrs. Donald C. Beatty 

Mrs. Henry C. Beck Jr. 

Mrs. Ralph E. Becker 

Mrs. Clay V. Bedford 

Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin 

Mrs. John A. Benton 

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry 

Dr. and Mrs. B. N. Bhat 

Mr. Richard A. Bideaux 

Edwin W. Bitter 

Dr. and Mrs. William Beaty Boyd 

Lee Bronson 

Dr. Ruth D. Bruun 

Mrs. George E. Burch 

Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein 

Mrs. Hyman Burstein 

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein 

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin H. Caldwell Jr. 

Lawson J. Cantrell 

Mr. Allan Caplan 

Mrs. George H. Capps 

Carol Chiu 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland 

Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton 



Dr. and Mrs. Roger Cornell 

Dr. and Mrs. E. J. Cunningham 

Dr. Bruce E. Dahrling II M.D. 

Mr. Sam DeVincent 

Mrs. Peter N. Delanoy 

Mr. John R. Doss 

Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover 

Edward R. Downe Jr. 

Dr. Dale B. Dubin 

Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. Dupont 

Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac 

Thomas M. Evans 

Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi 

Mrs. Walter B. Ford II 

Dr. and Mrs. Phillip Frost 

Mrs. Edwin Fullinwider 

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt 

Mrs. George Garfield 

Dr. and Mrs. Lament W. Gaston 

Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson 

C. Paul and Pat S. Gilson 

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott 

Mrs. W. G. Gould 

Doris Stack Greene 

Jerome L. and Dawn Greene 

Mrs. Chaim Gross 

Mrs. Melville Hall 

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold 

Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen 

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen 

Edward L. Henning 

Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn 

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker 

Mr. Paul Horgan 

Dr. and Mrs. Howard Ihrig 

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus 

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner 

Dr. Annette Kaufman 

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk 

Peter Merrill Klein 

Blanche M. Koffler 

Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land 

Mrs. David Landau 

Dr. Maury P. Leibovitz 

Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger 

Harry E. and Jane F. Lennon 

Mrs. Sara L. Lepman and Mr. Joshua 

M. Lepman 
Mr. and Mrs. John Levey 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey 
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis 
Mrs. Jack Lord 
Adele Lozowick 
Mrs. Robert Magowan 
Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian 
John A. Masek 
Mrs. Vincent Melzac 
Mr. and Mrs. Jack L. Messman 
Mr. W. A. Moldermaker 
Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H. Mosmann 
Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins 
Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray 
Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken 
Dr. Melanie Newbill 
Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow 
Mrs. Rudolf Pabst 



The Hon. and Mrs. G. Burton Pearson 

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger 

Mrs. John Alexander Pope 

Mrs. Abraham Rattner 

Kate Rinzler 

The Hon. Thomas M. Roberts 

The Hon. Martin J. Roess 

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers Jr. 

Mrs. Helen Goodwin Rose 

Mr. Arthur Ross 

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs 

Mr. Harry I. Saul 

Mrs. Janos Scholz 

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery 

Mrs. Helen F. Sloan 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith 

Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood Smith 

Mrs. Otto Spaeth 

Earl and Trudy Spangler 

Mr. Stuart M. Speiser 

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack 

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack 

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky 

Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli 

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart Jr. 

Mrs. Hans Syz 

Mrs. Katherine S. Sznycer 

Drs. Yen and Julia Tan 

The Ruth and Vernon Taylor 

Foundation 
Mrs. David J. Tepper 
Mr. Richard W Thomssen 
Mr. Bardyl R. Tirana 
Mr. Glenn O. Tupper 
Lillian Scheffres Turner 
Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon 
Dr. and Mrs. Francis S. Walker 
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang 
Dr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Whiteley 
Mr. Leonard John Wilkinson 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams 
Mr. and Mrs. Laurence C. Witten 
Mr. Archibald M. Withers 
Mrs. David O. Woodbury 
Mr. Stanley Woodward 
Mr. and Mrs. James Wu 
Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol 



BEQUESTS 

We remember with appreciation the 
following generous donors whose gifts 
through bequests from their estates 
were received this year. 

Leo L. August 

Sidney Bates 

Franz H. & Luisita L. Denghausen 

Richard T. Evans 

Lydia Heiniger 

Janet W. Johnson 

Helen Katchmar 

John Benton Kennedy Jr. 

Sterling H. Kleiser 

Theodore A. Krieg 



86 



Ru Lennox Lang 
Dario A. Macchi 
Constance Loudon Mellen 
Henry Blackman Plumb 
Ellen Pulvermann 
Beatrice Rubenstein 
Merriam P. Sargent 
Miriam K. Schreiter 
Frances Schillinger Shaw 
George Sisley 
Albert Snyder 
Ellwood C. Stang 
Feme R. Warren 
Annie B. Wetmore 



SMITHSONIAN 
WASHINGTON COUNCIL 

The Smithsonian Washington 
Council, an initiative established last 
year by the Secretary and regional 
leaders, is dedicated to expanding the 
Smithsonian's relationship with the 
entire Washington region. 

Mr. R. Robert Linowes, Chairman 

Ms. Jin-Hyun Weatherly Ahn 
Mr. Oliver T. Carr 
The Hon. Elaine Chao 
Mr. Emilio Fernandez 
Mr. Donald E. Graham 
Mr. J. Roderick Heller 111 
Mrs. Kathleen Hough 
Mr. James V. Kimsey 
Mr. Mario M. Morino 
Mrs. Irene PoUin 
Mr. John R. Risher Jr. 
Mrs. Vicki Sant 
Mr. Ladislaus von Hoffmann 



SMITHSONIAN LEGACY 
SOCIETY 

The Smithsonian Legacy Society 
honors our friends who carry on 
James Smithson's tradition by making 
legacy gifts to the Smithsonian, such 
as bequests, charitable gift annuities, 
I charitable remainder trusts, pooled 
income fund gifts, gifts of retirement 
and life insurance plans, and other 
giving vehicles. 

I Founding Chairman 

Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton 

I Founders 

Anonymous (4) 

Mr. H. V. Andersen 

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson 

Mrs. J. Paul Austin 

George and Bonnie Bogumill 

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Boone 

Mrs. Agnes M. Brown 



Mr. Michael W. Cassidy 

Fenner A. Chace Jr. 

Mr. Harry R. Charles Jr. 

Miss Jean M. Chisholm 

Mr. Earl Clayton 

Mr. Lawrence G. Clayton 

The Hon. Barber B. Conable Jr. and 

Mrs. Conable 
Ms. Patricia Daniels 
Mr. Dennis O. Dixon 
Mr. and Mrs. Wilham C. Dutton 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner 
Mrs. Aileen Garrett 
Mr. Gilbert W. Glass 
Mr. Charles Goldsberry 
Mr. Lloyd E. Herman 
Dr. and Mrs. David C. Hess 
Frank and Lisina Hoch 
Miss K. T. Hoffacker 
Mr. and Mrs. A. William Holmberg 
Dr. and Mrs. Lee Houchins 
Mr. John R. Huggard 
Dr. and Mrs. James C. Hunt 
Mr. Joseph E. Johnson 
Miss Narinder K. Keith 
Miss Rajinder K. Keith 
Lt. Col. William K. and Mrs. Alice S. 

Konze 
Ms. Lee Kush 

Dr. Geraldine E. La Rocque 
Mrs. James Spencer Lacock 
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Leighty 
Ms. Eleanor L. Linkous 
Mr. and Mrs. Burton Lowe 
Mr. Frank J. Lukowski 
Mr. Ronald W McCain 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. McCrary 
Ms. Lowen McKay 
Mr. and Mrs. Carl Mikuletzky 
Mrs. Jane R. Moore 
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson 
Mr. and Mrs. David S. Purvis 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank K. Rabbitt 
Mr. and Mrs. Galen B. Rathbun 
Sanae I. and Douglas F Reeves 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert F Rick 
George W. and Margaret P. Riesz 
Mr. Stuart W. Rosenbaum 
Lloyd G. and Betty A. Schermer 
Allan E. and Carol T. Shore 
Mrs. Warren Sichel 
Mary F Simons 
Dr. Barbara J. Smith 
Kathy Daubert Smith 
Mrs. Margaret Sokol 
Irene Sorrough 
Mr. Charles W. Speck 
Bernie Stadiem 
Mr. Kevin B. Stone 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. N. Suarez 
George D. and Mary Augusta Thomas 
Dr. and Mrs. F. Christian Thompson 
John and Ellen Thompson 
Jeffrey and Diane Tobin 
Mr. David E. Todd 
Ms. Patty Wagstaff 
Miss Catherine M. Walsh 
Dr. and Mrs. Richard Ward 



Mr. and Mrs. Charles Watts 
Mrs. Harriet K. Westcott 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald W. White 
Mrs. Laurence I. Wood 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Zapart 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Zelenka 
Dr. P. Joseph Zharn 
Mrs. Michael N. Zirkle 



MEMORIAL AND 
COMMEMORATIVE GIFTS 

The following were so honored by 
their families and friends. 

Mr. and Mrs. Isaac Behrend 

Mr. and Mrs. William I. Behrend 

Jose Cuatrecasas 

Laurence E. Fleischman 

Michael Kalinoski 

Frederick Krieg 

Jerome H. Lemelson 

Richard Louie 

James F. Lynch 

John T. Lyons 

Enid Morse 

Charlotte K. Ramsay 

Philip Ravenhill 

Frances Schillinger and Joseph and 

Elsa Snyder 
J. T Vida 
William J. Woolfenden 



DONORS OF IN-KIND 
SUPPORT 

Adobe East Gallery 

Air Jamaica 

B. Smith's Restaurant 

Nathan Scott Begay 

British Airways 

British West Indies Airways (BWIA) 

Embassy of Canada 

Cartier, Inc. 

CBS Radio 

Continental-Anchor, Ltd. 

Coors Brewing Company 

Delta Air Lines, Inc. 

Joyce Growing Thunder Fogarty 

Juanita Growing Thunder Fogarty 

Gallery 10, Inc. 

Glenn Green Galleries 

Hewlett-Packard Co. 

Rhonda Holy Bear 

Delbridge Honanie 

Yazzie Johnson 

KInko's Corporate 

Jan Loco 

National Business Aviation 

Association 
Angle Reano Owen 
PIA (Pakistan International Airlines) 
Radio ONE 
The Recording Industries Music 

Performance Trust Funds 



The Scale People, Inc. 

Schieffelin & Somerset Co. 

Embassy of Spain 

Steelcase, Inc. 

Sunset Hills Foliage 

Tamiya America, Inc. 

The Embassy of Trinidad and Tobago 

Mark Tupper 

Twin Rocks Trading Post and Blue 

Mountain Trading Post 
United Airlines 
U.S. Airways Group Inc. 
Waddell Trading Company 



87 



I 



% 







AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS 



The John R Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the National Gallery of Art, and the 
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars were established by Congress within 
the Smithsonian Institution under their own boards of trustees. The Institution provides 
administrative services on contract to Reading Is Fundamental, Inc., an independent 
organization. 

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 

James A. Johnson, Chairman 
Lawrence J. Wilker, President 

The Kennedy Center is America's living memorial to President John F. Kennedy, as well as 
the nation's busiest performing arts facility, presenting more than 3,200 performances 
each year for audiences of over 2 million people. More than 5 million people visit the 
center each year, and an additional 50 million people nationwide attend Kennedy Center 
touring productions or watch television broadcasts from the center. The Kennedy Center 
presents the finest in music, theater, and dance from this nation and abroad; makes the 
performing arts available to everyone through its free and discounted performances; nur- 
tures new works and supports artists through its producing, commissioning, and training 
programs; and serves the nation as a leader in arts education. 



Music Director Leonard Slatkin and 
the National Symphony Orchestra 
celebrated the gala reopening of the 
Kennedy Center Concert Hall In 
October 1997. (Photograph by 
Margot Ingoldsby Schulman) 



■ Immediately following its successful tour of Europe in October 1997, the Kennedy Center's 
National Symphony Orchestra and Music Director Leonard Slatkin opened the newly renovated 
Kennedy Center Concert Hall, praised nationally and internationally for its accessibility and 
acoustics. The second season under Slatkin's leadership was highlighted by several festivals, includ- 
ing a Russian Festival under the direction of NSO Conductor Laureate Mstislav Rostropovich and a 
Latin-Caribbean Festival. Alabama was the site of the sixth American Residency, where the orchestra 
spent 10 days doing 15 concerts and 150 educational outreach events. The regular concert schedule 
concluded with the highest season sales in 20 years. 

■ African Odyssey continued for a second season with a year-long celebration of music, dance, and 
theater of the African Diaspora and featured the El Warsha Theatre of Egypt, the National Theater 
Guild of Uganda, and the Song and Dance Company of Mozambique. Nationwide, "Africa Fete," a 
celebration of African music, toured 1 7 cities. Black traditions in modern dance were presented for 
the first time in the United States on Kennedy Center stages with 16 classical works by African 
American choreographers that will culminate in a television series to celebrate the new millennium. 

■ The Kennedy Center American Dancing scries was conceived as a five-year retrospective exploring 
American modern dance. In the spring of 1998, the Kennedy C'cnter and the American Dance Fostixal an- 
nounced a new commissioning project to create new works for modern dance and ja/./ music, supported 
by the Doris Duke Foundation with additional support from the National Endowment for the Arts. 

■ A highlight of the year was the center's unprecedented month-Uing residency of the Ro\al Shakespeare 
Company in five productions in June. Preserving the American musical theater tradition is one of the 
Kennedy Center's most important missions. In July, the center explored the extraordinary work that 
forms the basis of this essentially American art form in the Kennedy Center's Words and Music series, 
a trio of concert presentatii)ns of musicals from America's theater past. Faith Prince and Alan Campbell 



89 



starred in Bells Are Ringing; Dorian Hare- 
wood, Stephanie Mills, Larry Storch, and 
Reginald Veljohnson starred in Piirlie; 
and James Brennan and Sally Ann 
Howes starred in Where's Charley? 
m The festival "Art of the State: Israel at 
50," which featured three American 
premieres, included Batsheva Dance 
Company, Israel's leading contemporary 
dance troupe, in a performance of 
Anaphase, and Kibbutz Modern Dance 
Company, which shed light on memo- 
ries of the Holocaust with its Aide Mem- 
oire. Cameri Theater of Tel Aviv was rep- 
resented by Rina Yershalmi's Va Yomer, 
Va Yelech, a theatrical presentation of 
the first five books of the Old Testa- 
ment. Gesher Theatre's City was a 
haunting portrait of Jewish Odessa at 
the time of the Russian Revolution. Two 
of Israel's leading chamber music en- 
sembles, the Hubermann Quartet and 
Jerusalem String Quartet, also appeared. 
■ In a continuing effort to make the 
performing arts available to everyone, 
Chairman James A. Johnson and Presi- 
dent Lawrence J. Wilker inaugurated 
the Millennium Stage on Capitol Hill, 
presenting lunch-hour concerts on 
Tuesdays and Thursdays throughout 
the summer, but all year long the 
center continued its free daily 6 p.m. 
concerts on the Millennium Stage. 

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

Earl A. Powell III, Director 

The National Gallery of Art serves 
the nation by preserving, collect- 




ing, exhibiting, and fostering the 
understanding of vyrorks of art at 
the highest possible museum and 
scholarly standards. 

■ One of the gallery's most exciting 
and provocative exhibition years in- 
cluded celebrations of the birth centen- 
nials of two contemporary artists, 
sculptor Alexander Calder and Dutch 
printmaker M. C. Escher; the first 

U.S. exhibition of paintings by Italian 
Renaissance master Lorenzo Lotto (ca. 
1480-1556/57); the first museum exhi- 
bition to examine Edgar Degas' lifelong 
fascination with the theme of the horse 
and racing subjects; an exhibition of 
works by Edouard Manet, Claude 
Monet, and other artists who lived in 
late- 19th-century Paris in the district 
surrounding the Gare Saint-Lazare; the 
first comprehensive American retro- 
spective in 20 years of the work of 
Mark Rothko; and a small exhibition in 
the Dutch Cabinet Galleries devoted to 
17th-century collector's cabinets. 

■ Purchases for the gallery's collections 
are made possible by funds donated by 
private citizens. Several northern Euro- 
pean paintings were acquired this year: 
a member of the Haarlem civic guard 
in full regalia painted by 1 7th-century 
portraitist Johannes Cornelisz. Ver- 
spronck; a Dutch coastal scene by 1 7th- 
century marine artist Simon de Vlieger; 
and a vibrant 15th-century triptych 
depicting The Raising of the Cross by an 
anonymous Nuremberg artist. Other 
acquisitions included a small open-air 
landscape by early- 19th-century French 
artist Lancelot-Theodore Turpin de 
Crisse; an impression of Andrea Man- 
tegna's engraving of The Virgin and 
Child; the gallery's first drawing by 
Hans Holbein the Younger, a design 
for a piece of jewelry depicting the 
temptation of Tantalus; and four rare 
photographs by 20th-century American 
artist Charles Sheeler. 

■ The photography collection contin- 
ued to be enhanced through gifts and 

Self-Portrait 1889, by Vincent van 
Gogh is part of the collection of Mr. 
and Mrs. John Hay Whitney at the 
National Gallery of Art, a bequest to 
the gallery this year from Betsey 
Gushing Whitney. 



J 



purchases of work by Berenice Abbott, 
Eugene Atget, Use Bing, Brassai, Horace 
Bristol, Harry Callahan, Roger Fenton, 
Charles-Victor Hugo, Lotte Jacobi, 
Andre Kertesz, Richard Misrach, Hum- 
bert de Molard, Aaron Siskind, Alfred 
Stieglitz, Abraham Walkowitz, Max 
Yavno, and Alexander Zhitomirsky and 
four masters of 19th-century British 1 1 
photography, Julia Margaret Cameron, 
Roger Fenton, David Octavius Hill with 
Robert Adamson, and William Henry 
Fox Talbot. 

■ Outstanding among gifts were eight 
paintings by late- 19th- and early- 
20th-century artists such as Vincent 
van Gogh (a self-portrait), Henri de 
Toulouse-Lautrec, Georges Braque, 
Henri Matisse, Raoul Dufy, Albert 
Marquet, and Kees van Dongen, be- 
queathed by Betsey Gushing Whitney; 
a five-panel screen by Edouard Vuillard 
showing a springtime park scene as 
seen from the artist's window, from 
Enid Haupt; 473 contemporary prints 
given by Kathan Brown and the Crown 
Point Press; a Four-sided Pyramid by 
contemporary artist Sol LeWitt from 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Fisher; an ink 
drawing by Claude Lorrain of The Judg- 
ment of Paris from Mr. and Mrs. Eugen^ 
Victor Thaw; a partial gift of a Childe 
Hassam landscape from Mr. and Mrs. 
Raymond J. Horowitz; and a partial gift 
of a trompe-l'oeil painting by John F. i 
Peto from Jo Ann and Julian Ganz Jr. 

■ The Education Division completed 
work on gallery guides that provide 
commentaries in five languages on 
most of the works on view in the West 
Building. The guides have been con- 
verted to electronic form for availability 
on the gallery's Web site, www.nga.gov. l 
Fifty thousand children were given 
tours and 1,000 teachers participated in 
workshops and the Teacher Institute. 
Digital images of European paintings 
that were made for the National 
Gallery's European art videodisc are also 
being used for the computerized collec- 
tions management system and for the 
Web site. The Department of Adult Pro- 
grams offered symposia in conjunction 
with the special exhibitions on Lorenzo 
Lotto, Thomas Moran, Edgar Degas, 
Mark Rothko, and Manet and Monet 
and the Gare Saint-Lazare. 



Ml 

i 



I 



90 



5 



READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, 
■ INC. 

Lynda Johnson Robb, Chairman 
William E. Trueheart, President and 
CEO 

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. (RIF) 
is the nation's leading literacy or- 
ganization for young people. In 
1998, the volunteer services of 
' 240,000 local citizens brought 
books and reading motivation ac- 
tivities to some 3.5 million young 
people, from infancy to age 18, at 
more than 17,000 sites in all 50 
states, the District of Columbia, 
and Puerto Rico, the Virgin 
Islands, and Guam. 

RIF reaches young people in all 
kinds of settings — schools, libraries, 
day care centers. Head Start and 
Even Start Centers, migrant worker 
camps, housing developments. 
Boys and Girls Clubs, schools for 
children with disabilities, hospitals, 
and clinics. RIF also provides books 
and reading activities for young 
people from dozens of Native 
American tribes, including Native 
Alaskan and Pacific Island children 
living in Guam and Hawaii. 
■ Over the past year, RIF board and 
staff members developed a strategic 
plan to continue services to 3.5 million 
children while adding at least 700,000 
high-risk children to its rolls over the 
next three years. The plan calls for in- 



creased emphasis on early intervention 
programs, program leader and volun- 
teer training, development of intensi- 
fied motivational methods, and collab- 
oration with selected national 
organizations. 

■ In 1998, RIF continued to expand its 
program for children from infancy to 
age five. By midyear, one in every five 
children served was a preschooler. Part- 
ners in this growth included the Na- 
tional Head Start Association and civic 
groups such as Kiwanis International. 

■ RIF's work with preschoolers has also 
received impetus from recent research 
by neuroscientists demonstrating that 
reading and talking to a child rein- 
forces complex connections in nerve 
cells and stimulates brain develop- 
ment. The growing interest of pediatri- 
cians and nurse practitioners in early 
literacy development has resulted in 
the establishment of RIF programs for 
preschoolers at hospitals, community 
health centers, and pediatric clinics. 

■ The spotlight was on RIF's 240,000 
volunteers last spring when RIF an- 
nounced the Volunteer of the Year 
Award to honor the lifetime dedication 
to literacy of RIF Chair Emerita Anne 
Richardson. The winner was Alison 
Cruise of Lansing, Michigan, a RIF 
volunteer for 22 years who has played 
a key role in making Lansing RIF one 
of the largest programs in the country, 
serving 14,000 young people at 39 
schools. 

■ In January, RIF President and CEO 
William Trueheart launched an initia- 




tive that will bring the award-winning 
Running Start program to every first- 
grader in Delaware, as well as to 
preschoolers in Head Start, Even Start, 
and Parents As Teachers settings that 
serve disadvantaged children. Delaware 
businesses and the Delaware State De- 
partment of Education have banded to- 
gether to support this statewide initia- 
tive, which will serve 80,000 first-graders 
and preschoolers by 2001. 

■ As children across the country were 
celebrating Reading Is Fun Week in 
April, an awards ceremony to honor the 
RIF National Poster Contest vnnner and 
the National RIF Reader was held at the 
National Sports Gallery in Washington, 
D.C.'s MCI Arena. The children who at- 
tended the ceremony were entertained 
by RIF Ambassador John McDonough, 
better known as Captain Kangaroo, and 
Snoopy, the popular mascot of the Met- 
ropolitan Life Foundation, sponsor of 
both the poster contest and the na- 
tional reading celebration. 

■ On March 2, 1998, in partnership 
with the National Education Associa- 
tion's Read Across America campaign, 
RIF invited children to celebrate the 
life and works of Dr. Seuss (Theodor S. 
Geisel). In Fort Worth, Texas, RIF 
Chairman Lynda Johnson Robb joined 
Texas Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison in 
reading and then eating green eggs and 
ham with children at the J. A. Cavile 
Branch Boys and Girls Club. 

■ RIF gained public support for chil- 
dren's reading through a new series of 
public service announcements, pro- 
duced by the National Basketball Asso- 
ciation and aired regularly during the 
NBA season, playoffs, and champi- 
onship game. 



Celebrating Reading Is Fun Week 
together at the National Sports 
Gallery In Washington, D.C.'s MCI 
Arena are (from left) RIF Chairman 
Lynda Johnson Robb; National RIF 
Reader Dani Janssen of DeSmet, 
South Dakota; RIF National Poster 
Contest winner Sharonica Powell of 
Longview, Texas; and RIF President 
Willi; iin Trueheart. (Photograph by 
Rick Reinhnrd) 



91 



WOODROW WILSON 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR 
SCHOLARS 

Dean W. Anderson, Acting Director 

The Woodrow Wilson Interna- 
tional Center for Scholars is a 
nonpartisan institute for advanced 
research in the humanities, social 
sciences, and public policy. Cre- 
ated by Congress in 1968 as the 
nation's living memorial to 
Woodrow Wilson, the center is a 
meeting ground between the 
worlds of learning and public 
affairs. It is the capital's only inde- 
pendent, wide-ranging institute 
for advanced study, where vital 
current issues and their historical 
background are explored through 
research and dialogue by the cen- 
ter's professional staff and visiting 
scholars — to date, more than 1,500 
academics, public leaders, and 
journalists from around the world. 

The center informs the public 
through open meetings, publica- 
tions, and electronic media. Every 
year, more than 200 meetings at the 
Wilson Center give the public a 
chance to ask questions and explore 
new ideas with academic and policy 



experts. The Wilson Quarterly, a jour- 
nal of ideas and information, 
reaches more than 60,000 sub- 
scribers. The award-winning radio 
program Dialogue is produced in as- 
sociation with Smithsonian Produc- 
tions and broadcast nationwide by 
the Armed Forces Radio Network. 

■ In August 1998, the center moved 
from the Smithsonian Castle to its dis- 
tinctive new home in the Ronald Rea- 
gan Building and International Trade 
Center at One Woodrow Wilson Plaza. 
Designed by James Ingo Freed of Pei 
Cobb Freed & Partners, the building 
fulfills the congressional mandate of a 
presence for the center on Pennsylva- 
nia Avenue. A memorial space on the 
ground floor is marked by passages 
from Wilson's speeches and writings 
and a bronze bas relief of Wilson by 
sculptor Leonard Baskin. Next to the 
memorial is a small theater where a 
film about Wilson's life, ideas, and ac- 
complishments runs continuously. The 
center's ambitious schedule of lectures, 
conferences, and symposia will have 
room to expand in this new space, 
which includes a board room, confer- 
ence rooms, and the Joseph H. and 
Claire Flom Auditorium. 

■ Scholars and staff of the center's Cold 
War International History Project are 




serving as academic consultants to the 
CNN television documentary series on 
the Cold War, which began airing in 
September 1998. The center's expanded 
Cold War Web site, cwihp.si.edu, pro- 
vides direct access to previously classi- 
fied documents from Soviet and East- 
ern Bloc archives, as well as to in-depth _ 
information on the issues, events, and 
individuals presented in the series. 
A link from the CNN site will bring 
thousands of new electronic visitors. 

■ Wilson Center scholars and staff led 
numerous briefings for members of l| 
Congress and their staffs on nonprolif- 
eration, Ukraine and the former Soviet 
Union, drug certification in Latin 
America, United States-China rela- 
tions, and other issues. 

■ Edward O. Wilson, renowned scientis'l 
and author of two Pulitzer Prize-winning 
books, spoke about his latest book. 
Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge. He 
proposes a new phase in one of Westerr 
civilization's greatest driving concepts: 
that the world is orderly and can be 
explained by a small number of natural 
laws. When we have unified enough 
certain knowledge across all so-called 
divisions of human inquiry, writes 
Wilson, we will understand who and 
why we are. Excerpts from the book, 
as well as essays by Paul Gross and 
Richard Rorty, both of the University of 
Virginia, were published in the winter 
1998 Wilson Quarterly. 

■ Among the workshops sponsored by 
the center, the Latin American Progran 
hosted "Latin America's Role in the 
New International System," which 
examined the evolving intfernational 
environment and its impact on the 
strategic options available to the 
nations of the region. The workshop 
convened experts on international rela 
tions from across the hemisphere with 
prominent analysts to test a range of 
strategic scenarios against the broader 
perspective of those who do not neces 
sarily focus on Latin America. 



The Woodrow Wilson Memorial Hall 
on the ground floor of the Wilson 
Center's new home features a 
bronze bas relief of President 
Woodrow Wilson by sculptor 
Leonard Baskin. (Photograph by 
Alexander M. Padro) 



FINANCIAL REPORT 

RICK JOHNSON, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 



The Smithsonian Institution receives funding from both federal appropriations and non- 
appropriated trust sources. Nonappropriated trust funds include all funds received from 
sources other than direct federal appropriations. These other sources include gifts and 
grants from individuals, corporations, and foundations; grants and contracts from federal, 
state, or local government agencies; earnings from short- and long-term investments; reve- 
nue from membership programs; and revenue from sales activities, such as Smithsonian 
magazine, museum shops and restaurants, mail order catalogues, and licensed products. 

Federal appropriations provide funding for the Institution's core functions: caring for 
and conserving the national collections, sustaining basic research on the collections and 
in selected areas of traditional and unique strength, and educating the public about the 
collections and research findings through exhibitions and other public programs. Federal 
appropriations also fund a majority of the activities associated with maintaining and 
securing the facilities and with various administrative and support services. 

Smithsonian trust funds allow the Institution to undertake new ventures and enrich 
existing programs in ways that would not otherwise be possible. These funds provide the 
critical margin of excellence for innovative research, building and strengthening the na- 
tional collections, constructing and presenting effective and up-to-date exhibitions, and 
reaching out to new and under-represented audiences. In recent years, the Smithsonian 
has also begun to rely in part on trust funds for the funding of major new construction 
projects. 

The following sections describe the external environmental factors affecting the 
Institution's general financial condition, its financial status, and its planned response to 
changing conditions; financial results for fiscal year 1998; and organizational and financial 
measures being taken to ensure the continued fiscal health of the Institution. 

Financial Status and Prospects 

In fiscal year 1998, the Smithsonian took major steps to address the increasing financial 
needs of the Institution. Congress has been very supportive of the Institution in its pro- 
vision of federal appropriations for core functions and the maintenance of facilities. This 
support, however generous, cannot be expected to sustain the growing costs of new 
exhibitions and programs that allow the Institution to continue as a world-class center 
for research and education. Consequently, in fiscal year 1998, the Institution focused on 
restoring and strengthening its revenue-generating activities, as well as on its fund-raising 
efforts. 

Over the past several years, income from the Institution's business activities has 
remained relatively static. In response, the Institution made two critical decisions. Tlie 



93 



first was to discontinue the commercial activities of 
Smithsonian Press/Smithsonian Productions, trans- 
ferring the profitable ventures to Smithsonian Retail 
and establishing the University Press division as a 
programmatic function of the Institution under the 
auspices of the Provost with the name Smithsonian 
Institution Press. 

As an important step to promote the long-term 
growth of the Institution's business activities and 
ensure its financial health, the Board of Regents ap- 
proved a new approach for managing those ven- 
tures. Major elements of this new approach include 
the creation of a separate organization within the 
Institution to increase the Smithsonian's major 
business activities, the creation of a separate board 
of directors to help guide the new organization and 
the recruitment of a senior level business executive 
to be the new organization's chief executive officer. 
The goal of the new approach is to double the an- 
nual level of business-generated trust dollars avail- 
able for the Institution within the next five years. 

Fund raising received continuing attention as a 
critical element in the improvement of the Insti- 
tution's financial position. Work was begun in 
earnest on the Smithsonian's capital campaign. 
An overarching strategy has been developed and a 
budget established to fund the campaign. Currently 
in its "quiet phase," the campaign has already 
achieved substantial results. In fiscal year 1998, 
donor and sponsor support was at its highest level 
in the Institution's history. 

Fiscal Year 1998 Results 

Revenues received by the Institution in fiscal year 
1998 from all sources totaled $774.5 million. Reve- 
nue from federal appropriations accounted for 
$393.0 million, and nonappropriated trust funds 
provided an additional $381.5 million. When ad- 
justed to remove auxiliary activity expenses of 
$197.0 million, net revenues totaled $577.5 million. 
The chart on page 95 reflects revenues by source and 
broad purpose of use. 

Operations (Tables 1 and 2) 

Federal operating revenue of $331.5 million pro- 
vided the core funding for ongoing programs of the 
Institution. The fiscal year 1998 operating appropria- 
tion of $333.4 million represented an increase of 



FY 1998 Sources of Net Revenues 



Federal Appropriations 

68.1% 



General Trust 

6.9% 



Donor/Sponsor 

15.1% 




Gov't Grants & 
Contracts 

9.9% 



$14.9 million from the fiscal year 1997 level. Total 
increases were $15.7 million, with $.8 million in 
one-time funding being returned. Increases to coverj 
certain uncontrollable costs included $6.6 million 
to cover the cost of mandated pay and benefit in- 
creases, $2.7 million for utility costs, and $.3 milliori 
for inflation for library materials. In addition, the 
following program increases were provided: $1.2 
million to fund operation of the Smithsonian 
Astrophysical Observatory Submillimeter Telescope 
Array, $3.0 miUion for the National Museum of 
Natural History's East Court project, $1.0 million 
for collections information systems, and $.9 million 
for other projects. 

General trust revenue was $270.6 million. Overall' 
revenue levels in this category were up 3 percent 
over the prior year. Donor/sponsor revenue was up 
8 percent, sales and membership revenue was up 
5 percent, and other revenue was down 41 percent, 
primarily as a result of the closedown of 150th an- 
niversary activities. Overall net revenue for auxiliary 
activities declined 9 percent. Major increases in net 
revenue for museum shops/mail order and conces- 
sions were offset by a loss for Smithsonian Press/ 
Smithsonian Productions related to discontinuation 
of major portions of that operation. 

Revenue from donor/sponsor designated funds 
totaled $53.5 million. Donor/sponsor revenue in this 
category increased by 123 percent over the prior year 
as a result of intensified fund-raising activities and 
the development of and focus on new strategies. In 
addition, 150th anniversary activities had a positive 



94 



Fiscal Year 1998 Sources of Gross/Net Revenues 



Gross Revenues 

(Sthoiisands) 



Net* Revenues 
(Sthousands) 



Percent Net 
Revenues (%) 



Operations 

Federal Appropriations 

General Trust** 

Donor/Sponsor** 

Gov't Grants & Contracts 

Total Sources for Operations 



393,032 


393,032 


68.1 


237,026 


40,036 


6.9 


87,081 


87,081 


15.1 


57,320 


57,320 


9.9 



774,459 



577,469 



100.0 



*Net of expenses related to revenue-generating activities, e.g., museum stiops, restaurants, publications, etc. 
**GeneraI trust is reduced from Table 1 by tire Donor/Sponsored Contributions. 



impact on overall giving. Major gifts and grants in- 
cluded $20 million from the Kenneth E. Behring 
family to support exhibitions, public programs and 
related activities at the National Museum of Natural 
History, $5 million from the Pew Charitable Trusts 
to the National Museum of American History for the 
Star-Spangled Banner Preservation Project and $1.3 
million from the Nippon Foundation to the Na- 
tional Museum of Natural History for the "Ainu: 
Spirit of a Northern People" project. The Smith- 
sonian is especially grateful to its many friends in the 
private sector whose generosity contributed vitally to 
its work. The names of major donors are listed in the 
Benefactors section of this annual report. 

In fiscal year 1998, the Institution recorded $57.3 
million in income from contracts and grants from 
government agencies, an increase of $.6 million over 
fiscal year 1997. Support from government agencies 
constitutes an important source of research monies 
for the Institution while also providing the granting 
agencies access to Smithsonian expertise and 
resources. As in prior years, the majority of these 
funds were provided by the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration for research programs at 
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. Other 
awards included $1 million from the National Sci- 
ence Foundation for a program in science education 
developed by the National Science Resources Center 
and $.5 million from the Department of Energy for a 
study of carbon dioxide levels in selected ecosystems 
lat the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. 



with each endowment purchasing shares in a man- 
ner similar to shares purchased by an investor 
in a mutual fund. 

The Investment Policy Committee of the Smith- 
sonian's Board of Regents establishes investment 
policy and recommends the annual payout for the 
consolidated endowment. The Smithsonian's poli- 
cies for managing the endowment are designed to 
achieve two objectives: to provide a stable, growing 
stream of payouts for current expenditures and to 
protect the value of the endowment against inflation 
and maintain its purchasing power. Current policy 
calls for an average payout of 4.5 percent of the aver- 
age market value over the prior five years. The invest- 
ment policy targets a real rate of return of 5 percent. 

As depicted in the chart on page 96, the market 
value of the endowment decreased from $600 mil- 
lion to $580.9 million during fiscal year 1998, reflect- 
ing the market downturn in the last quarter of the 
fiscal year. New gifts and internal transfers totaled 
$11.5 million, while the payout was $19.7 million 
and fees were $1.5 million. 

The total return on the consolidated portfolio 
was (8.16) percent, reflecting the market downturn 
in the last quarter of the fiscal year. Returns rose 
again substantially as the market rebounded in the 
last months of calendar year 1998. At year's end, 
the Institution's portfolio was invested 64 percent in 
equities, 33 percent in bonds, and 3 percent in cash. 
The portfolio had 22 percent in foreign stocks and 
bonds and 78 percent in U.S. securities. 



Endowment (Tables 3, 4, and 5) 

The Institution pools its endowment funds for in- 
vestment purposes into a consolidated portfolio. 



Construction and Plant Funds (Table 6) 

In fiscal year 1998, the federal appropriations for 
construction were $68.8 million. This amount in- 



95 



eluded $32.0 million for general repair, restoration, 
and code compliance projects throughout the 
Institution. With the support of Congress, the In- 
stitution continues to seek the $50 million per year 
required to maintain systematic renewal of its phy- 
sical plant. Funds earmarked for new construction, 
alterations, and modifications totaled $36.8 million. 
Included in this amount is $29.0 million for the 
Mall museum for the National Museum of the 
American Indian; $3.8 million for renovations, 
repairs, and master plan projects at the National 
Zoological Park; and $4.0 million for planning and 
design of the National Air and Space Museum 
Dulles Center. 

Nonappropriated trust construction funds, 
also termed plant funds, totaled $5.2 million. 
Approximately $3.5 million supported construction 
of facilities for the National Museum of the 
American Indian; $1.4 million supported renovation 
of the Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum; 
and $0.3 million contributed to the reinstallation 
of the Janet Annenberg Hooker Hall of Geology, 
Gems, and Minerals at the National Museum of 
Natural History. 

Financial Position 

The Smithsonian Institution's Statement of Financial 
Position presents the total assets, liabilities, and net 
assets of the Institution. Total assets of $1.5 billion 
far exceed total liabilities of $394.0 million and are 
indicative of the financial strength of the Institu- 
tion. During fiscal year 1998, the most significant 
change in the Institution's financial position was a 
$41 million increase in debt to finance the Discov- 
ery Center at the National Museum of Natural 
History and a $37 million increase in investments 
levels. 

Financial Management 

During the year, the Smithsonian's Office of Infor- 
mation Technology conducted an analysis of the 
Year 2000 software problem. That analysis indicated 
that for all major critical systems the Institution will 
be Year 2000 compliant. In one instance, software 
cannot be made compliant, but an alternative solu- 
tion will be employed to solve the problem. At pres- 
ent, all major financial system software is warranted 
to be Year 2000 compliant. Nevertheless, the Institu- 



Market Value of Endowment and Similar Fund^ 
(in $ millions) 



600 
500 
400 
300 
200 
100 




- 




600 

1 


581 






435 




483 

■ 




i 










m>ieiti&st. 





1994 1995 1996 1997 



1998 



tion will continue to conduct testing during fiscal 
year 1999 to confirm these findings. 

Other financial management improvement 
initiatives undertaken in fiscal year 1998 included: 

• A new database for sponsored project data that 
will increase the efficiency and effectiveness of 
managing sponsored projects. This database is 
also the source of critical financial measures for 
sponsored project activity that is distributed to se 
nior management in weekly and monthly reports 

• Additional application modules for the Institu- 
tion's Budget Management, Planning, and Policy 
System. This improvement has further automated 
the budget and planning process, eliminating 
duplication of data entry and reducing error rate: 

• A system to facilitate use of a new travel credit 
card for employees. The system includes an en 
hanced ability for tracking and reporting activity, 
Use of the travel card will be greatly increased 
over use of the previous card. 

• A new electronic fund transfer system for vendor 
payments and employee reimbursements. Most 
paychecks are already sent electronically. The sys 
tem was scheduled to be launched on January 1, 
1999. 

• A major training effort for unit staff in procure- 
ment and contracting. This training is required 
to support the delegation of greater procurement 
and contracting authority to program units and 
to implement other changes to the procurement 
and contracting process. 
Additional financial management improvement 

initiatives planned to start in fiscal year 1999 in- 
clude the following: 



96 



• Electronic routing of monthly financial reports 

• Updating and streamlining of financial policies 
and procedures 

• Automation of payroll data entry at the unit 
level 

• Implementation of software to facilitate accurate 
preparation of travel authorization and voucher 
forms 

Audit Activities 

The Institution's financial statements are audited 
annually by KPMG LLP, an independent public 
accounting firm. The audit plan includes an in- 
depth review of the Institution's internal control 
structure. KPMG LLP Independent Auditors' Report 



for fiscal year 1998 and the accompanying financial 
statements are presented on the following pages. 
The Smithsonian's internal audit staff, part of the 
Office of Inspector General, assists the external audi- 
tors and regularly audits the Institution's various 
programs, activities, and internal control systems. 
The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of 
Regents provides an additional level of financial 
oversight and review. 

In accordance with the government requirement 
for the use of coordinated audit teams, the Defense 
Contract Audit Agency, the Smithsonian Office of 
Inspector General, and KPMG LLP coordinate the 
audit of grants and contracts received from federal 
agencies. 



97 



Table 1. Source and Application of Institutional Resources for the Year Ended September 30, 1998 (in SOOOs) 



Trust Funds 



Federal 
Funds 



General 
Trust 



Donor/ 

Sponsor 

Designated 



Government Total 
Grants & 
Contracts 



REVENUE & GAINS: 

Federal Appropriations (see Note 1) 331,484 — — — 

Endowment Payout & Investment Income — 15,582 6,524 — 

Government Grants and Contracts — — — 57,320 

Donor / Sponsor — 33,570 46,987 — 

Sales and Membership Revenue — 213,109 — — 

Construction 61,548 — — — 

Other — 8,335 — — 

TOTAL REVENUE & GAINS 393,032 270,596 53,511 57,320 



Trust 


Total 


Funds 


FY 1998 




331,484 


22,106 


22,106 


57,320 


57,320 


80,557 


80,557 


213,109 


213,109 


— 


61,548 


8,335 


8,335 



381,427 



774,459 



EXPENSES: 

Museums & Research Institutes: 

Anacostia Museum and Center for African American 

History and Culture 1,752 

Archives of American Art 1,587 

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery/Freer Gallery of Art 5,711 

Center for Folklife Programs & Cultural Studies 1,861 

Center for Materials Research and Education 2,770 

Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum 2,829 

Hirshhorn Museum & Sculpture Garden 4,272 

National Air and Space Museum 12,340 

National Museum of African Art 4,318 

National Museum of American Art (incl. Renwick) 7,339 

National Museum of American History 18,654 

— National Postal Museum 512 

National Museum of the American Indian 13,313 

National Museum of Natural History 38,324 

— Museum Support Center 3, 1 70 

National Portrait Gallery 4,592 

National Zoological Park 18,914 

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 24,352 

Smithsonian Environment Research Center 3,123 

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute 9,208 

Total Museums & Research Institutes 178,941 

Education, Museum & Scholarly Services: 

Center for Museum Studies 1,005 

Education 733 

Exhibits Central 2,079 

Fellowships and Grants 221 

International Relations 2,051 

National Science Resources Center 216 

The Provost 1,709 

Smithsonian Institution Archives 1,330 

Smithsonian Institution Libraries 5,889 

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service .... 2,862 

Sponsored Projects — 

Total Education, Museum & Scholarly Services 18,095 

Auxiliary Activities (Programmatic) 1,564 

America's Smithsonian — 

Prior Year Annual Appropriations 10,647 

Total 209,247 

Allocation of Facilities and Depreciation Expense 106,766 

Total 316,013 

Auxiliary Activities: 

Smithsonian Press / Smithsonian Productions — 

Smithsonian Magazines — 

The Smithsonian Associates — 

SI Retail — 

Unit Auxiliary Activities — 

Total Auxiliary Activities (including Overhead) — 



702 


632 


— 


1,334 


3,086 


123 


677 


— 


800 


2,387 


5,664 


1,679 


— 


7,343 


13,054 


1,080 


548 


— 


1,628 


3,489 


111 


11 


7 


129 


2,899 


2,795 


992 


86 


3,873 


6,702 


1,827 


358 


— 


2,185 


6,457 


2,742 


2,843 


532 


6,117 


18,457 


520 


4 


— 


524 


4,842 


1,699 


1,439 


— 


3,138 


10,477 


2,154 


3,800 


16 


5,970 


24,624 


93 


4,972 


— 


5,065 


5,577 


1,494 


3,242 


(8) 


4,728 


18,041 


6,391 


2,509 


1,784 


10,684 


49,008 


— 


1 


— 


1 


3,171 


452 


396 


— 


848 


5,440 


1,349 


1,110 


710 


3,169 


22,083 


6,439 


1,599 


49,450 


57,488 


81,840 


359 


232 


1,805 


2,396 


5,519 


2,152 


1,112 


1,508 


4,772 


13,980 



38,146 



7,713 



101 
1,611 



47,571 
4,780 



52,351 



17,061 
57,581 
32,866 
67,211 
22,271 



28,156 



55,890 



122,192 



2,972 



1,432 



12,117 



171 
708 



272 
2,319 



32,007 



57,322 



136,900 
4,780 



32,007 



57,322 



141,680 



301,133 



113 


3 


— 


116 


1,121 


486 


154 


66 


706 


1,439 


86 


37 


— 


123 


2,202 


1,512 


82 


— 


1,594 


1,815 


380 


46 


63 


489 


2,540 


602 


141 


1,130 


1,873 


2,089 


1,875 


1,369 


173 


3,417 


5,126 


139 


59 


— 


198 


1,528 


981 


177 


— 


1,158 


7,047 


599 


904 


— 


1,503 


4,365 


940 


— 


— 


940 


940 



30,212 



1,836 

2,319 

10,647 



346,147 
111,546 



457,693 



17,061 


17,061 


57,581 


57,581 


32,866 


32,866 


67,211 


67,211 


22,271 


22,271 



196,990 



— 196,990 



196,990 



98 



Table 1. Source and Application of Institutional Resources for the Year Ended September 30, 1998 (in SOOOs) — (continued) 

Trust Funds 

Donor/ Government Total 

Federal General Sponsor Grants & Trust Total 

Funds Trust Designated Contracts Funds FY 1998 

Administration: 

Membership and Development — 2,494 16 — 2,510 2,510 

Administrative Offices (Net of Overhead Recovery) 31,085 5,748 239 (2) 5,985 37,070 

Total Administration before Allocation of Facilities 

and Depreciation Expense 31,085 8,242 255 (2) 8,495 39,580 

Allocation of Facilities and Depreciation Expense 15,855 360 — — 360 16,215 

Total Administration 46,940 8,602 255 (2) 8,855 55,795 

Facilities Services 91,430 841 — — 841 92,271 

Depreciation 31,191 4,299 — — 4,299 35,490 

Allocation of Facilities Services and Depreciation to Functions (122,621) (5,140) — — (5,140) (127,761) 

Total Facilities Services and Depreciation — — — — — — 

TOTAL EXPENSES 362,953 257,943 32,262 57,320 347,525 710,478 

Endowment Return Reinvested — (21,207) (9,618) — (30,825) (30,825) 

Proceeds from Collections — 737 — — 737 737 

Net increase (decrease) in net assets 30,079 (7,817) 11,631 — 3,814 33,893 

Net assets, beginning of the year 396,192 _ _ _ 714,618 1,110,810 

Net assets, end of the year 426,271 _ _ _ 718,432 1,144,703 

Note 1: Includes $363 thousand revenue recognized as a permanent indefinite appropriation for the Canal Zone Biological Area Fund. Also, 
includes $1,594 thousand revenue recognized in foreign currency for research projects in India. 



Table 2. Auxiliary Activities, Fiscal Year 1998 (in SOOOs) 

Sales and 
Membership Revenue 

FY 1997 202,467 

FY 1998: 

Central Auxiliary Activities 

Magazines 70,083 

The Smithsonian Associates 32,527 

Museum Shops/Mail Order* 70,999 

Concessions* 4,707 

Product Development and Licensing* 1,417 

Smithsonian Press/Smithsonian Productions 9,734 

Unit Auxiliary Activities 

Air and Space Theater and Einstein Planetarium 5,160 

Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum 1,229 

'Traveling Exhibition Service 722 

Other 16,531 

TOTAL FY 1998 213,109 



Gifts 



Expenses 



Net 
Revenue (Loss) 



856 



2,045 



183,369 



196,990 



19,954 



4 


57,581 


12,506 


— 


32,868 


(341) 


— 


64,656 


6,343 


— 


1,688 


3,019 


— 


865 


552 


— 


17,061 


(7,327) 


_ 


3,302 


1,858 


4 


776 


457 


— 


727 


(5) 


2,037 


17,466 


1,102 



18,164 



*The Business Management Office expenses were allocated to Museum Shops/Mail Order, Concessions, and Product Development and licensing. 



99 



Table 3. Endowment and Similar Activities September 30, 1998 (in $000s) 




Market 
Value 



ASSETS: 

Pooled Consolidated Endowment: 

Cash and equivalents 5,270 

Other Receivable 836 

US Government and Quasi-Government Obligations 55,731 It 

Corporate Bonds and Other Obligations 169,779 '■ 

Common and Preferred Stocks 373,146 

Receivable for Securities Sold 15,902 



Total Pooled Assets 620,664 



Nonpooled Endowment and Similar Activities: 

Loan to U.S. Treasury in Perpetuity 1,050 

Promises to Give - Gifts 7,387 

Promises to Give - Charitable Trust 2,565 

Notes Receivable 245 

Gift Annuity Program Investments 447 



Total Nonpooled Assets 11,694 



Total Assets 632,358 



LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS: 

LIABILITIES: 

Payables for securities purchased 40,865 

Deferred Revenue — Charitable Trusts 25 

Annuity Payment Liability 247 



Total Liabilities 41,137 



NET ASSETS 

Unrestricted 215,094 

Unrestricted Designated 172,514 

Temporarily Restricted 138,686 

Permanently Restricted 64,927 



Total Net Assets 591,221 



Total Liabilities and Net Assets 632,358 



Table 4. Changes in Market Value of Endowment and Similar Activities September 30, 1998 (in SOOOs) 



Unrestricted Temporarily Permanently 

Unrestricted Designated Restricted Restricted Total 



Market Value Endowment - 10/1/97 226,026 177,979 148,759 47,196 599,960 

Changes: 

Gifts — — — 4,822 4,822 

Internal Transfers 524 4,061 (1,929) 4,058 6,714 

Other 

Interest and Dividends 7,614 4,568 4,914 459 17,555 

Market Value Depreciation (10,093) (8,394) (8,477) — (26,964) 

Payout (7,508) (5,700) (6,059) (459) (19,726) 

Manager's Fees (1,469) _ _ _ (1,469) 



Market Value Endowment - 9/30/98 215,094 172,514 137,208 56,076 580,892 



Promises to Give — — 920 6,467 7,387 

Charitable Trusts — — 558 1,955 2,513 

Gift Annuities — — — 184 184 

Notes Receivable — — — 245 245 



Market Value Endowment and Similar Activities - 9/30/98 215,094 172,514 138,686 64,927 591,221 



100 



Table 5. Endowment and Similar Activities September 30, 1998 



Market Values 





Unrestricted 


Temporarily 


Permanently 


Total 


Unrestricted 


Designated 


Restricted 


Restricted 


Market Value 


450,207 






49,334 


499,541 


218,246 


— 


— 


960,518 


1,178,764 


169,683 


— 


— 


931,677 


1,101,360 


— 


— 


— 


64,778 


64,778 


— 


— 


— 


414,040 


414,040 


— 


— 


— 


900,590 


900,590 


146,768 


— 


— 


30,672 


177,440 


394,017 


— 


— 


202,927 


596,944 


35,075 


— 


— 


35,000 


70,075 


825,823 


— 


— 


100,000 


925,823 


231,760 


— 


— 


38,990 


270,750 


8,451 


— 


— 


1,000 


9,451 


1,736,562 


— 


— 


288,941 


2,025,503 


3,128,562 


— 


— 


290,162 


3,418,724 


10,051 


— 


— 


2,706 


12,757 


203,425 


— 


— 


229,831 


433,256 


277,167 


- 


z 


1,214,860 


1,492,027 


7,835,797 


— 


— 


5,756,026 


13,591,823 


282,583 








282,583 


2,077,841 


— 


— 


— 


2,077,841 


1,014,681 


— 


— 


— 


1,014,681 


10,302,634 


— 


— 


— 


10,302,634 


820,537 


— 


20,000 


— 


840,537 


181,752,962 


— 


— 


— 


181,752,962 


81,590 


— 


— 


— 


81,590 


972 


— 


— 


— 


972 


6,106 


— 


— 


— 


6,106 


15,059 


— 


— 


— 


15,059 


602,309 


— 


— 


— 


602,309 


1,002,501 


— 


— 


— 


1,002,501 


293,264 


— 


— 


— 


293,264 


349,823 


— 


— 


— 


349,823 


538,031 


— 


— 


— 


538,031 


9,978 


— 


— 


— 


9,978 


342,568 


— 


— 


— 


342,568 


1,473,414 


— 


— 


— 


1,473,414 


6,988 


— 


— 


— 


6,988 


468,259 


— 


— 


— 


468,259 


4,317,371 


— 


57,368 


— 


4,374,739 


1,277,331 


— 


— 


— 


1,277,331 


5,706 


— 


— 


— 


5,706 


215,622 


— 


— 


— 


215,622 


207,258,130 


— 


77,368 


— 


207,335,4^)8 


215,093,927 


— 


77,368 


5,756,026 


220,927,321 



UNDESIGNATED PURPOSE - TRUE: 

Avery Fund (See Note 1) 

Dodge, Patricia 

Fund for the Future-Unrestricted (See Note 1) 

Fund for the Future-Glass, Gilbert W. (See Note 1) 

Fund for the Future-Schermer, Lloyd G. and Betty (See Note 1) 

Fund for the Future-Holmberg, Ruth S. (See Note 1) 

Higbee, Harry, Memorial 

Hodgkins Fund (See Note 1) 

Morgan, Gilbert B. and Betty J., Memorial 

Morrow, Dwight W. 

Mussinan, Alfred 

Olmsted, Helen A 

Poore, Lucy T. and George W. (See Note 1) 

Porter, Henry Kirke, Memorial 

Sanford, George H. (See Note 1) 

Smithson, James (See Note 1) 

Smithson Society, James (See Note 1) 

Subtotal 



UNDESIGNATED PURPOSE - QUASI: 

Dodge, Patricia 

EttI, Charles H 

Ferguson, Frances B 

Forrest, Robert Lee 

Fund for the Future-Unrestricted (See Note 1) 

General Endowment (See Note 1) 

Goddard, Robert H 

Habel, Dr. S. (See Note 1) 

Hart, Gustavus E 

Henry, Caroline 

Henry, Joseph and Harriet A 

Heys, Maude C 

Hinton, Carrie Susan 

Koteen, Dorothy B 

Lambert, Paula C 

Medinus, Grace L 

O'Dea , Laura I 

Phillips, Roy R., Estate 

Rhees, William Jones (See Note 1) 

Safford, Clara Louise 

Smithsonian Bequest Fund (See Note 1) 

Sultner, Donald H 

Taggard, Ganson 

Winterer, Alice 1 

Subtotal 

Total Undesignated Purpose 



DONOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE - TRUE: 



Aitken, Annie Laurie 

Arthur, James 

Axelrod, Dr. Herbert R 

Axelrod, Herbert R. & Evelyn, Music 

Axelrod, Herbert R. & Evelyn, Revolving Chair 

Baird, Spencer Fullerton 

Barney, Alice Pike, Memorial (See Note 1) 

Batchclor, Emma E 

Beauregard, C^atherinc, Memorial 

Bergen, Charlotte V 

Brown, Roland W 

Burch, CJeorge E. Fellowship in Theoretic Medicine and 

Affiliated Theoretic Sciences 

Camel Fund 



359,051 


— 


325,000 


684,051 


— 


409,128 


54,587 


463,715 


— 


49,124 


120,000 


169,124 


— 


— 


^)50,0()0 


050.000 


— 


— 


1,460,000 


l,4hO,000 


364,151 


— 


50,362 


414,513 


317,301 


— 


828,445 


1,145,746 


— 


283,729 


60,000 


343.729 


— 


412,832 


141,227 


554,050 


— 


24,319 


10,000 


34,310 


216,593 


69,041 


70,295 


355.020 





1,449,751 


1,068,880 


3,118,040 


37,439 


76 


100,800 


138,315 



101 



Table 5. Endowment and Similar Activities September 30, 1998 (continued) 



Market Values 



Unrestricted 



Unrestricted 
Designated 



Temporarily 
Restricted 



Permanently 
Restricted 



Total 1) 
Market Value 



DONOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE - TRUE: (Continued) 

Canfield, Fredrick A 

Casey, Thomas Lincoln 

Chamberiain, Francis Lea 

Chinese Art Research (See Note 1) 

Cooper Fund for Paleobiology 

Cuatrecasas, Jose, Botanical 

Cullman, Joseph R III (See Note 1) 

Davis Foundation 

deSalle, Albert and Peggy 

Deibel, Charles R 

Discovery Communications, Inc. (See Note 1) 

Division of Mammals Curators Fund 

Dodge, Gary and Rosalind, Memorial 

Drake Foundation 

Drouet, Francis and Louderback, Harold B 

Dykes, Charles, Bequest 

Eaton, Harriet Phillips 

Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort 

Eppley Memorial 

Forbes, Edward Waldo 

Freer, Charles L 

Fund for the Future-Samuel C. Johnson Theater 

Fund for the Future-Mary L. Ripley Garden 

Fund for the Future-Ethel Niki Kominik 

Fund for the Future- Vincent Wilkinson 

Fund for the Future-Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson (See Note 1) 
Fund for the Future-Smithsonian Luncheon Group (See Note 1) 

Fund for the Future-Frank J. Lukowski ( See Note 1) 

Fund for the Future-National Postal Museum 

Fund for the Future-Craveri/Giamporcaro (See Note 1) 

Fund for the Future-Dutton, William C. (See Note 1) 

Fund for the Future-Konze, Alice Stockton (See Note 1) 

FSG Education Program Fund (See Note 1) . . . 

Global Environmental Endowment Fund 

Grimm, Sergei N 

Groom, Barrick W 

Guggenheim, Daniel and Florence 

Hamilton, James (See Note 1) 

Haupt, Enid A. Garden 

Henderson, Edward and Rebecca R., Meteorite Fund 

Herman, Lloyd E. (See Note 1) 

Hewitt, Eleanor G., Repair Fund 

Hewitt, Sarah Cooper 

Hillyer, Virgil 

Hirayama Fund (See Note 1) 

Hitchcock, Albert S 

Hodgkins Fund (See Note 1) 

Hotung, Sir Joseph 

Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie 

Hughes, Bruce 

Huntington Publication Fund (See Note 1) 

Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography 

Kellogg, Remington and Marguerite, Memorial 

Kottler, Howard, Endowment for Ceramic Art 

Kramar, Nada 

Krombein, Karl V. 

Lang, Hank and Ru 

Lang, Hank and Ru, Educational 

Lichtenberg, William R. & Nora H 

Mandil, Harry and Beverly 

Mashantucket Pequot Nation 

Maxwell, Mary E 

Mellon Foundation-Advanced Studies in Plant Science Research 

Mellon Foundation Challenge Grant/Endowment 

Mellon Publications Endowment Fund 

Milliken, H. Oothout, Memorial 

Mineral Endowment 

Mitchell, William A 



14,307 



332,494 
33,000 



4,147 

45,288 

235,278 

21,661 



49,425 

23,187 

1,073,891 

7,468,936 

358,191 

6,880 

43,591 

5,557 

25,942 



2,311 
221,849 
195,659 

5,731 



66,525 
377,230 



48,398 
394,325 
205,345 



364,911 

3,463 

21,030 

8,709 

30,605 



163,368 

613,372 

288,155 

2,379 

115,694 



450,369 
147,874 
291,277 

13,574 



26,188 
16,640 



2,845 

1,586,475 

412,243 

599,925 

115,392 



84,318,008 

26,147 

14,212 
322,771 



2,358 

475 



948,380 

1,303,698 
206,186 



71,070 
85,311 
17,376 

3,982 
111,982 
212,684 



— 35,574,549 



18,882 
7,974 

14,653 
5,708 



62,969 
89,253 
44,128 



285,933 
844,834 



46,233 

1,000 

35,000 

500,000 

247,580 

72,124 

100,000 

125,000 

65,000 

100,000 

2,402,262 

8,901 

25,000 

448,355 

254,072 

131,978 

64,403 

10,500 

30,214 

818,912 

1,958,591 

1,003,120 

129,516 

100,000 

144,526 

4,943,307 

128,751 

134,868 

25,000 

500,000 

10,013 

46,840 

1,000,000 

3,000 

71,863 

100,000 

251,108 

4,150 

3,106,978 

257,256 

79,347 

15,003 

88,633 

7,000 

2,583,247 

1,200 

146,012 

100,000 

71,000 

9,352 

508,960 

3,415,606 

223,178 

75,000 

12,103 

52,180 

200,000 

117,723 

50,000 

100,000 

500,000 

20,000 

1,150,000 

655,465 

900,000 

443 

179,008 

24,072 



510,909 

148,874 

326,277 

500,000 

593,648 

105,124 

100,000 

151,188 

85,787 

145,288 

2,637,540 

30,562 

27,845 

2,034,830 

666,315 

731,903 

113,828 

125,892 

53,401 

1,892,803 

93,745,535 

1,361,311 

162,543 

143,591 

164,295 

5,266,078 

154,693 

134,868 

27,358 

500,475 

10,013 

46,840 

1,000,000 

5,311 

293,712 

295,659 

1,199,488 

9,881 

4,410,676 

463,442 

79,347 

81,528 

465,863 

78,070 

2,668,558 

18,576 

194,410 

103,982 

577,307 

222,036 

714,305 

38,990,155 

588,089 

97,345 

41,107 

75,542 

205,708 

148,328 

50,000 

162,969 

589,253 

227,496 

1,150,000 

1,268,837 

1,474,088 

2,822 

1,023,842 

139,766 



102 



Table 5. Endowment and Similar Activities September 30, 1998 (continued) 



Market Values 



Unrestricted 



Unrestricted 
Designated 



Temporarily 
Restricted 



Permanently 
Restricted 



Total 
Market Value 



DONOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE - TRUE: (Continued) 

Moynihan, Elizabeth Brennan 

Museum of the American Indian-Heye Foundation . . . . 

NMAI Educational Endowment Fund (See Note 1) 

NMAI George Heye Center (See Note 1) 

Nelms, Henning 

Nelson, Edward William 

Nesbitt, Lowell 

Petrocelli, Joseph, Memorial 

Reid, Addison T (See Note 1) 

Ripley, S. Dillion and Mary Livingston 

Roebling Fund 

Rollins, Miriam and William 

Sackler, Else, Flower 

Sackler Public Affairs 

Schmitt, John J 

The Sichel Family, Endowment for Research at the NZP . 

Sims, George W. 

Sisley, George J 

Sprague Fund 

Springer, Frank 

Star Spangled Banner (See Note 1) 

Stern, Harold P., Memorial 

Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library 

Stuart, Mary Horner 

Tupper, Earl S. (See Note 1) 

Walcott, Charles D.and Mary Vaux, Research 

Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications 

Wells, Dr. John W. 

Wetmore, Alexander, Fund for Ornithology (See Note 1) 

Williams, Blair and Elsie 

Williston, Samuel Wendell, Diptera Research 

Wineland Research Library 

Woolfenden, William J. (See Note 1) 

Wood, Elizabeth B. and Laurence I. (See Note 1) 

Zerbee, Frances Brinckle 

Zirkle, Nancy Behrend 

Subtotal 



706,499 
50,630 

173,743 

177,648 



223,044 
2,401,213 



14,442 

8,334 

193,515 

22,782 

13,539,840 

137,383 

1,140,304 

35,677 

1,439,423 

1,521,134 

622,274 



30,408 
26,887 



7,801 
30,014 



16,598 



49,971 

8,863 

76,291 

211,950 

63,491 

1,241,647 

37,146 
1,293,826 

33,749 

154,980 

40,281 

384,662 

11,005 

429,426 



2,211 



12,895 
123 



2,118 



50,161 

920,587 

273,047 

533,500 

218,001 

30,000 

20,000 

10,000 

20,561 

197,080 

150,000 

691,493 

398,237 

2,856,875 

18,817 

400,000 

110,000 

926,650 

4,949,996 

30,000 

100,000 

458,101 

10,053 

291,426 

6,725,650 

574,743 

80,124 

4,577 

448,868 

39,622 

32,942 

41,160 

126,127 

209,685 

1,000 

117,868 



66,759 

1,627,086 

323,677 

533,500 

391,744 

257,619 

28,863 

86,291 

232,511 

483,615 

1,391,647 

3,092,706 

435,383 

4,150,701 

33,259 

442,083 

303,515 

1,104,412 

18,489,836 

207,664 

100,000 

1,983,067 

56,735 

720,852 

8,165,073 

2,095,877 

702,398 

6,788 

448,868 

70,030 

72,724 

41,283 

126,127 

209,685 

10,919 

147,882 



— 36,668,364 135,025,558 58,596,509 230,290,431 



DONOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE - QUASI: 

Abbott, Marie Bohrn 

Archives of American Art 

Armstrong, Edwin James 

Au Panier Fleuri 

Bacon, Virginia Purdy 

Bateman, Robert 

Becker, George F. 

The Cafritz Foundation Fund (See Note 1) . . . 

Compton, Bertita E 

Compton, Bertita E., Memorial 

Cooper Hewitt Acquisition Endowment Fund 

Daniziger, Richard (See Note 1) 

Davis, Gene, Memorial 

Denghausen, Luisita L. and Franz H 

Desautels, Paul E 

Evans, Richard T. 

Friends of Music Endowment Fund 

Gaver, Gordon 

Haas, Gloria, Fellowship 

Hachenbcrgh, George P. and Caroline 

Hagen, Karl (See Note 1) 

Hammond, John Performance Series Fund . . 

Hanson, Martin (iustav and Caroline R 

Hirshhorn Collections I'.nciowment Fund . . . 

Hirshhorn, Joseph 1 1., Bequest Fund 

The Holenia Trust Fund 

The Holenia Trust Fund II 



282,895 


— 


505,552 


— 


52,651 


— 


199,797 


— 


964,435 


— 


71,003 


91,248 


1,669,257 


— 


494 


500,000 


25,020 


286,820 


3,642 


32,000 


828,028 


— 


— 


500,000 


411,322 


— 


18,358,871 


308,906 


30,642 


— 


(6,160) 


68,137 


200,490 


— 


27,543 


— 


13,227 


26,329 


50,740 


— 


— 


240,655 


536,993 


— 


105,530 


— 


14,029,723 


— 


2,683,656 


— 


8,964,344 


— 


3,838,335 


— 



282,895 

505,552 

52,651 

199,797 

964,435 

162,251 

1,669,257 

500,494 

311,840 

35,642 

828,028 

500,000 

411,322 

18,667,777 

30,642 

61/)77 

200,440 

27,543 

39,556 

50,740 

240,655 

536,4')3 

105,530 

14,02^,723 

2,(i83,(i5() 

8,964,344 

3,838,335 



103 



Table 5. Endovirinent and Similar Activities September 30, 1998 (continued) 



m 



Market Values 



Unrestricted 

DONOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE - QUASI: (Continued) 

The Holenia Trust Fund III 

Houchins, Lee and Chang-Su (See Note 1) 

Hunterdon Endowment 

Johnson, E.R. Fenimore 

Johnson, Janet W. 

Keyzer-Andre, Henri, Conservation Internship 

Krieg Drawings & Prints 

Lane, Robert and Mildred Katchmar 

Leob, Morris 

Long, Annette E. and Edith C 

Louie, Richard Memorial 

McGovern, John P. 

McLaughlan, Thomas 

Merrell, Elinor 

Myer, Catherine Walden 

Noyes, Frank B 

Noyes, Pauline Riggs 

Orth, Edward J., Memorial 

Pell, Cornelia Livingston 

Plumb, Henry 

Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton 

Rathbun, Richard, Memorial 

Reeves, Douglas F. and Sanae lida (See Note 1) 

Ripley, S. Dillon Library 

Roebling Solar Research 

Ross, Arthur Garden and Terrace 

Ruef, Bertha M 

Schultz, Leonard P. 

Seidell, Atherton 

Smithsonian Institution Libraries 

Strong, Julia D 

Witherspoon, Thomas A., Memorial 

Subtotal 

Total Donor Designated Purpose 

BOARD DESIGNATED PURPOSE - TRUE: 
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research 

Subtotal 

BOARD DESIGNATED PURPOSE - QUASI: 

Abbott, William L 

Barstow, Fredric D 

Cooper Hewitt Masters Program for Education 

Heckscher, August, Exhibition 

Hirshhorn Museum Acquisition Fund 

Jackson, Charles Bremner Hogg 

Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History 

Lindbergh, Charles A 

Lyon, Marcus Ward, Jr 

Martin Marietta Internship 

NMNH Research 

NZP Programs 

SAO Directors Endowment 

Smithsonian Institution Libraries General Support 

Smithsonian Press Scholarly Books Fund 

Webb, James E., Fellowship 

Women's Committee Fellowship 

Subtotal 

Total Board Designated Purpose 

TOTAL ENDOWMENT AND SIMILAR ACTIVITIES 215,093,927 



Unrestricted 
Designated 



Temporarily 
Restricted 



Permanently 
Restricted 



Total 
Market Valuel 



— 1,288,711 



74,017 



36,110,132 


— 


78,135 


— 


(9,847) 


125,000 


4,477 


144,893 


714 


25,000 


392,035 


— 


1,046,621 


— 


6,464 


— 


99,317 


— 


25,101 


87,798 


137,855 


— 


544,968 


60,469 


239,871 


— 


12,090 


— 


98,066 


— 


2,523 


23,354 


88,553 


— 


221,470 


— 


1,868,548 


-^ 


126,881 


— 




243,788 
272,797 
293,870 
304,493 
250,334 

6,594,930 
520,421 
119,227 

1,529,836 



186,258 
168,218 

618,474 



15,627 



1,288, 

74, 

36,110, 

78, 

115, 

149, 

25, 

392, 

1,046, 

6, 

99, 

112, 

137, 

605, 

239, 

12, 

98, 

25, 

88, 

221, 

1,868, 

126, 

186, 

412, 

272, 

912, 

304, 

250, 

6,594, 

536, 

119, 

1,529, 



711 
017 
132 
135 
153 
370 
714 
035 
621 
464 
317 
899 
855 
437 
871 
090 
066 
877 
553 
470 
548 
881 
258 
006 
797 
344 
493 
334 
930 
048 
227 
836 



1,415,752 

11,833 

238,118 

165,087 

4,003,883 

2,166,918 

4,903,372 

78,944 

53,703 

352,345 

232,662 

4,619,930 

247,236 

29,158 

3,436,092 

2,283,094 

492,924 



1,415,752 

11,833 

238,118 

165,087 

4,003,883 

2,166,918 

4,903,372 

78,944 

53,703 

352,345 

232,662 

4,619,930 

247,236 

29,158 

3,436,092 

2,283,094 

492,924 



— 24,731,051 



24,731,051 



— 29,485,042 



574,182 30,059,224 



172,513,817 138,686,129 64,926,717 591,220,590 



— 106,360,411 


3,583,203 


— 


109,943,614 


— 143,028,775 


138,608,761 


58,596,509 


340,234,045 


— 4,753,991 




574,182 


5,328,173 


— 4,753,991 


— 


574,182 


5,328,173 



Note 1: Invested all or in part in nonpooled investments 



104 



Table 6. Construction and Plant Funds, Fiscal Years 1998 and 1997 (in SOOOs) 



FY 1998 FY 1997 



FUNDS PROVIDED 

Federal Construction Appropriations: 

National Zoological Park 3,850 3,850 

Repair and Restoration of Buildings 32,000 39,000 

Construction Planning and Minor Construction — 3,000 

National Museum of the American Indian 29,000 4,000 

National Air and Space Museum Dulles Extension 4,000 3,000 

Total Federal Construction Appropriations 

Nonappropriated Trust Plant Funds: 
Income - Gift and Other 

Cooper - Hewitt, National Design Museum 

National Museum of the American Indian 

National Museum of Natural History - Gem Hall 

National Air and Space Museum Dulles Extension 

Other 

Total Trust Resources 

Total Funds Provided 



68,850 


52,850 


1,400 

3,477 

359 

10 


1,670 

4,629 

963 

500 

13 


5,246 


7,775 


74,096 


60,625 



105 



Independent Auditors' Report 



BOARD OF REGENTS 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: 

We have audited the accompanying statement of financial 
position of the Smithsonian Institution (Smithsonian) as of 
September 30, 1998, and the related statements of financial 
activity and cash flows for the year then ended. These 
financial statements are the responsibility of the 
Smithsonian's management. Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. 

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally ac- 
cepted auditing standards. Those standards require that we 
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the financial statements are free of material 
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the 
accounting principles used and significant estimates made 



by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial 
statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a 
reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above 
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position 
of the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1998, anc 
its changes in net assets and its cash flows for the year then 
ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles. 



Washington, D.C. 
January 13, 1999 



KPMG LLP 



I 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

Statement of Financial Position September 30, 1998 (in thousands) 







Total Funds 


Trust 
Funds 


Federal 
Funds 






1998 


1997 


5,193 


200,636 


205,829 


197,048 


69,460 


16,066 


85,526 


69,529 


15,663 


— 


15,663 


16,956 


4,300 


— 


4,300 


4,300 


20,254 


921 


21,175 


18,959 


646,455 


— 


646,455 


609,660 


119,739 


440,103 


559,842 


516,496 



Assets: 

Cash and balances with the U.S. Treasury 

Receivables and advances (note 3) 

Prepaid and deferred expenses (note 2) 

Other assets (note 5) 

Inventory 

Investments (note 6) 

Property and equipment, net (note 9) 

Collections (note 5) 



Total assets 



$ 881,064 



657,726 



1,538,790 



1,432,948 



Liabilities: 

Accounts payable and accrued expenses 

Net payable for investment securities purchased 

Deferred revenue 

Debt (note 10) 

Deposits held for affiliates (note 11) 

Accrued annual leave 

Unexpended federal appropriations 



35,790 
24,963 
50,505 
41,526 
4,864 
4,984 



34,080 



14,752 
182,623 



69,870 
24,963 
50,505 
41,526 
4,864 
19,736 
182,623 



69,512 
1,001 

53,602 
1,000 
3,933 

19,290 
173,800 



Total liabilities 


162,632 


231,455 


394,087 


322,138 


Net I^^^^^^^^^H 

Unrestricted: ^^^^^^^^^H 

Funds functioning as endowments (note 7) ^M 

Operational balances " 


^B 387,608 
i^^ 63,673 


426,271 


387,608 
489,944 


404,005 
471,377 


Total unrestricted net assets 


451,281 


426,271 


877,552 


875,382 


Temporarily restricted: 
Funds functioning as endowments (note 7) 
Donor contributions for ongoing programs 


138,686 
63,538 


— 


138,686 
63,538 


149,089 
29,877 


Total temporarily restricted net assets 


202,224 


— 


202,224 


178,966 


Permanently restricted: 
True endowment (note 7) 
Interest in perpetual and other trusts 


62,972 
1,955 


— 


62,972 
1,955 


54,560 
1,902 


Total permanently restricted net assets 


64,927 


— 


64,927 


56,462 


Total net assets 


718,432 


426,271 


1,144,703 


111,0810 


Commitments and contingencies (note 12) 
Total liabilities and net assets 


$ 881,064 


657,726 


1,538,790 


1,432,948 



See accompanying notes to the financial statements. 



106 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

Statement of Financial Activity For the Year Ended September 30, 



1998 (In thousands) 

Unrestricted 

Temporarily Permanently 

Trust Federal Restricted Restricted 

Funds Funds Total Trust Funds Trust Funds 



Total 



1998 



1997 



Operating revenue: 

Government funding and other revenue: 
Federal appropriations 
Government grants and contracts 
Short-term investment income (note 8) 
Endowment payout (note 8) 
Private grants 

Rentals, fees, and commissions 
Auxiliary activities (note 15) 



393,032 



57,320 
2,374 

13,208 

5,682 

8,335 

213,109 



393,032 

57,320 

2,374 

13,208 

5,682 

8,335 

213,109 



6 
6,059 
7,318 



459 



393,032 


383,468 


57,320 


56,703 


2,380 


1,924 


19,726 


18,174 


13,000 


7,708 


8,335 


14,055 


213,109 


202,467 



Total government funding and other revenue ^| 


■1 300,028 


393,032 


693,060 


13,383 


459 


706,902 


684,499 


Contributions: 
Program support 
Construction of facilities 


27,888 


— 


27,888 


27,851 
3,815 


8,003 


63,742 
3,815 


37,924 
6,422 


Total contributions 


27,888 


— 


27,888 


31,666 


8,003 


67,557 


44,346 


Total operating revenue and support 

Net assets released from restrictions ^m 


327,916 
^i 12,170 


393,032 


720,948 
12,170 


45,049 
(12,170) 


8,462 


774,459 


728,845 



Total operating revenue, support and other additions 

Expenses: 

Research 

Collections management 

Education, public programs, and exhibitions 

Auxiliary activities (note 15) 

Administration 

Advancement 



340,086 



73,953 
2,729 
30,506 
196,990 
25,950 
10,459 



393,032 



127,644 
57,128 
77,304 

98,984 



733,118 



201,597 
59,857 
107,810 
196,990 
124,934 
10,459 



32,879 



8,462 



774,459 



201,597 
59,857 
107,810 
196,990 
124,934 
10,459 



728,845 



190,042 
56,545 
130,158 
183,369 
122,471 
9,353 



Total expenses 



340,587 



361,060 



701,647 



701,647 



691,938 



Increase (decrease) in net assets from operations (501) 

Endowment return in excess of (less than) payout (note 8) (21,207) 

Change in net assets related to collection items not capitalized 
(note 5): 
Proceeds from sale 737 



31,972 



31,471 
(21,207) 

737 



32,879 
(9,621) 



8,462 
3 



72,812 
(30,825) 

737 



36,907 
109,283 

2,719 



Collection items purchased 


(6,938) 


(1,893) 


(8,831) 


— 


— 


(8,831) 


(9,358) 


Increase (decrease) in net assets 


(27,909) 


30,079 


2,170 


23,258 


8,465 


33,893 


139,551 


Net assets, beginning of the year 
Net assets, end of the year 


479,190 
$451,281 


396,192 
426,271 


875,382 
877,552 


178,966 
202,224 


56,462 
64,927 


1,110,810 
1,144,703 


971,259 
1,110,810 



See accompanying notes to the financial statements. 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

Statement of Cash Flows For the Year ended September 30, 1998 (In thousands) 



Trust 
Funds 



Federal 
Funds 



Total Funds 



1998 



1997 



Cash flows from operating activities: 
Increase in net assets 

Adjustments to reconcile increase in net assets to net 
cash provided by operating activities: 
Proceeds from sales of collections 
Collection items purchased 
Depreciation 

Loss on disposition of assets 
Contributions for increases in endowment 
Contributions for construction of property 
Appropriations for repair, restoration and construction 
Investment income restricted for long-term investment 
Provision for doubtful accounts 

Net realized and unrealized loss (gain) on investments 
Decrease (increase) in assets: 
Receivables and advances 
Prepaid and deferred expenses 
Other assets 
Inventory 



$ 3,814 



30,079 



33,893 



139,551 



(737) 


— 


(737) 


(2,719) 


6,938 


1,893 


8,831 


9,358 


7,388 


38,493 


45,881 


37,938 


364 


219 


583 


1,339 


(4,822) 


— 


(4,822) 


(2,916) 


(3,815) 


— 


(3,815) 


(6,422) 


— 


(68,850) 


(68,850) 


(52,850) 


(462) 


— 


(462) 


(419) 


277 


— 


277 


71)2 


26,505 


— 


26,505 


(107,100) 


(18,325) 


(1,098) 


(20,023) 


(9,564) 


1,293 


— 


1,293 


0,003 


— 


— 


— 


(300) 


(2,133) 


(83) 


(2,216) 


1,268 



107 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

Statement of Cash Flows For the Year ended September 30, 1998 (In thousands) 



Trust 
Funds 



Federal 
Funds 



Total Funds 



1998 



1997 



Adjustments to reconcile net increase in net assets to net 
cash provided by operating activities: (continued) 
Increase (decrease) in liabilities: 
Accounts payable and accrued expenses 
Net payable for investment securities purchased 
Deferred revenue 
Deposits held for others 
Accrued annual leave 
Unexpended federal appropriations 



(299) 


657 


358 


5,586 


23,962 


— 


23,962 


(16,635) 


(3,097) 


— 


(3,097) 


2,555 


931 


— 


931 


(2,950) 


169 


277 


446 


(1,489) 


— 


8,823 


8,823 


(9,920) 



Net cash provided from operating activities 



37,951 



9,810 



47,761 



(8,354) 



Cash flows from investing activities: 
Proceeds from sales of collections 
Collection items purchased 
Purchase of property and equipment 
Purchases of investment securities 
Proceeds from the sales of investment securities 



737 


— 


737 


2,719 


(6,938) 


(1,893) 


(8,831) 


(9,358) 


(20,824) 


(68,986) 


(89,810) 


(90,789) 


(750,907) 


— 


(750,907) 


(865,439) 


687,607 


— 


687,607 


901,596 



Net cash used in investing activities 



(90,325) 



(70,879) 



(161,204) 



(61,271) 



Cash flows from financing activities: 

Contributions for increases in endowment 
Contributions for construction of property 
Appropriations for repair, restoration and construction 
Investment income restricted for long-term purpose 
Proceeds from issuance of debt 
Repayments of debt 



8,571 
3,815 

462 
40,526 



68,850 



8,571 


7,605 


3,815 


6,422 


68,850 


52,850 


462 


419 


40,526 


500 


— 


(2,597) 



Net cash provided from financing activities 



53,374 



68,850 



122,224 



65,199 



r:3S 



Net increase (decrease) in cash and balances with the U.iS. Treasury 
Cash and balances with the U.S. Treasury: 
Beginning of the year 



1,000 



4,193 



7,781 
192,855 



8,781 
197,048 



"^Es^T" 



(4,426) 
201,474 



End of the year 



5,193 



200,636 



See accompanying notes to the financial statements. 



205,829 



197,048 



Cash paid for interest during fiscal years 1998 and 1997 was $1,332,000 and $58,000, respectively. 



(1) Organization 

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846 in accordance 
with the terms of the will of James Smithson of England, who, in 1826, bequeathed 
his property to the United States of America "to found at Washington, under the 
name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion 
of l^nowledge among men." After receiving the property and accepting the trust. Con- 
gress vested responsibility in the Smithsonian Board of Regents (Board) to administer 
the trust. 

The Smithsonian Institution (Smithsonian) is a museum, education and research 
complex of 16 museums and galleries, the National Zoological Park, and other re- 
search facilities. Research is carried out in the Smithsonian's museums and facilities 
throughout the world. The Smithsonian's extensive collections number over 140 mil- 
lion objects. During fiscal year 1998, over 28 million individuals visited the Smith- 
sonian museums and other facilities. 

The Smithsonian receives its funding from federal appropriations, private gifts and 
grants, government grants and contracts, investment income, and various business 
activities, including the Smithsonian magazines and other publications, a mailorder 
catalogue, museum shops, and food services. A substantial portion of the Smith- 
sonian's annual operating budget is funded from annual federal appropriations. Cer- 
tain construction projects have been completely funded from federal appropriations, 
while others are funded using amounts raised from private sources, or by a combina- 
tion of federal and private funds. 



Federal operating and construction funding are both subject to the annual federal 
appropriations process, and therefore the potential exists for reductions in approved 
federal funding that would significantly impact the Smithsonian's operations. 

These financial statements do not include the accounts of the National Gallery of 
Art, the John E Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, or the Woodrow Wilson 
International Center for Scholars, which were established by Congress within the 
Smithsonian, but are administered by independent boards of trustees. 

(2) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

These financial statements present the financial position, financial activity, and cash 
flows of the Smithsonian on the accmal basis of accounting. Funds received from 
direct federal appropriations are reported as Federal Funds in the financial statements 
All other funds are reported as Trust Funds. 

(a) Trust Funds 

All non-appropriated activities are classified as trust funds, income from which arises 
primarily from contributions, grants and contracts, net investment income, and auxil- 
iary activities. Trust net assets are classified and reported as follows: 

Unrestricted net assets 
Net assets that are not subject to any donor-imposed or other legal stipulations on 
the use of the funds. Funds functioning as endowments in this category represent 



108 



unrestricted assets which have been designated by management or the Board for 
longterm investment. 

Temporarily restricted net assets 
Net assets subject to donor-imposed stipulations on the use of the assets that may be 
met by actions of the Smithsonian and/or the passage of time. Funds functioning as 
endowments in this category represent donor-restricted contributions that have been 
designated by management or the Board for longterm investment. Donor contribu- 
tions represent unspent gifts and promises-to-give of cash and securities subject to 
donor-imposed restrictions which have not yet been met. 

Permanently restricted net assets 
Net assets subject to donor-imposed stipulations that the principal be maintained 
permanently by the Smithsonian. Generally, the donors of these assets permit the 
Smithsonian to use all or part of the income earned on investment of the assets for 
either general or donor-specified purposes. 

(b) Federal Funds 

The Smithsonian receives federal appropriations to support the Smithsonian's operat- 
ing salaries and expenses, repair and restoration of facilities, and construction. Federal 
appropriation revenue is classified as unrestricted and recognized as an exchange trans- 
action as expenditures are incurred. The liability reported as unexpended appropria- 
tions represent either goods and services that have been ordered but not yet received 
or appropriated funds that have not yet been obligated. 

The Smithsonian received appropriations for operations of $333,408,000 in fiscal 
year 1998. Federal appropriations for operations are generally available for obligation 
only in the year received. In accordance with Public Law 101-510, these annual ap- 
propriations are maintained by the Smithsonian for five years following the year of 
appropriation, after which the appropriation account is closed and any unexpended 
balances are returned to the U.S. Treasury. During fiscal year 1998, the Smithsonian 
returned $2,193,000 to the U.S. Treasury which represents the unexpended balance for 
fiscal year 1993. 

Federal appropriations for repair and restoration of facilities and construction are 
generally available for obligation until expended. 

(c) Use of Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets 
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of reve- 
nues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those 
estimates, however, management does not believe that actual results will be materially 
different from those estimates. 

(d) Fair Value of Financial Instruments 

The carrying value of financial instruments in the financial statements approximates 
fair value. 

(e) Cash and Balances with U.S. Treasury 

Amounts represent cash deposited with financial institutions, balances held by the 
U.S. Treasury that are available for disbursement, and a repurchase agreement totaling 
$7,810,000 at September 30, 1998. 

(f) Investments 

The Smithsonian's marketable equity and debt securities are reported at fair value 
based on quoted market prices. Changes in fair value are recognized in the statement 
of financial activity. Purchases and sales of investments are recorded on the trade date. 
Investment income is recorded when earned, and realized gains and losses on the sale 
of investments are recognized on the trade date basis using the average cost method. 
As mandated by Congress, the Smithsonian maintains two $500,000 Treasury invest- 
ments relating to the original James Smithson gift. 

(g) Contributions Receivable 

Contributions receivable that are expected to be collected within one year are reported 
net of any estimated uncollectible amounts. Contributions expected to be collected 
beyond one year are also discounted to present value. Conditional contributions 
receivable are not recorded until material conditions have been met. 

(h) Inventories 
Inventories are reported at the lower of cost or market, and consist primarily of 
merchandise inventory, books, recordings, and office supplies. c;ost is determined 
using the first-in, first-out method. 

(i) Deferred Revenue and Expense 

Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian magazine and Air fi Spua'/Smitlisoniim 
magazine is recognized over the period of the subscription, generally one year. 

Promotion jjroduction expenses are recognized when related advertising materials 
arc released. Direct-response advertising relating to the magazines is deterred and 
amortized over one year. At September M), 1998, prepaid and deferred expenses 
include $5,403,000 of deferred promotion costs, mostly related to the Sniillisoniiin 
magazine. Promotion cvperrse totaled $15,475,000 in fiscal ye.ir I99K. 



(j) Split Interest Agreements and Perpetual Trusts 

Split interest agreements with donors consist primarily of irrevocable charitable 
remainder trusts and charitable gift annuities. For the charitable remainder trusts, 
contribution revenue and assets are recognized at fair value on the date the trusts are 
established. Assets are adjusted during the term of the trusts for changes in the value 
of the assets, accretion of discounts, and other changes in the estimated future bene- 
fits. For the charitable gift annuities, assets are recognized at fair value on the date the 
annuity agreements are established. An annuity liability is recognized at the present 
value of future cash flows expected to be paid to the donor and contribution revenue 
is recognized as the difference between the assets and liability. Liabilities are adjusted 
during the term of the annuities for payments to donors, accretion of discounts and 
changes in the life expectancy of the donor. 

The Smithsonian is also the beneficiary of certain perpetual trusts held and adminis- 
tered by others. The present values of the estimated future cash receipts from the 
trusts are recognized as assets and contribution revenue at the dates the trusts are 
established. Distributions from the trusts are recorded as contributions and the carr>- 
ing value of the assets is adjusted for changes in the estimates of future receipts. 

(k) Property and Equipment 

Property and equipment purchased with federal or trust funds are capitalized at cost. 
Property and equipment acquired through transfer from government agencies are 
capitalized at net book value or fair value, whichever is more readily determinable. 
Property and equipment acquired through donation are capitalized at appraised value 
at the date of the gift. These assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their 
estimated useful lives as follows: 



Buildings 

Major renovations 

Equipment 



30 years 
15 years 
3-10 years 



Certain lands occupied by the Smithsonian's buildings, primarily located in the 
District of Columbia, Maryland and Virginia, were appropriated and reserved by 
Congress for the Smithsonian's use. The Smithsonian serves as trustee of these lands 
for as long as they are used to carry out the Smithsonian's mission. These lands are 
titled in the name of the U.S. government and are not reflected in the accompanying 
financial statements. 

(I) Collections 

The Smithsonian acquires its collections, which include works of art, library books, 
photographic archives, objects and specimens, by purchase using federal or trust funds 
or by donation. All collections are held for public exhibition, education, or research, 
furthering the Smithsonian's mission to increase and diffuse knowledge to the public. 
The Smithsonian protects and preserves its collections, which total more than 140 
million items. The Smithsonian's Collections Management policy includes guidance 
on the preservation, care and maintenance of the collections and procedures relating 
to the accession/deaccession of items within the collections. 

The Smithsonian's policy is to not capitalize its collections, therefore, no value is 
assigned to the collections on the statement of financial position. Purchases of collec- 
tion items are recorded as expense in the year in which the items are acquired. 
Contributed collection items are not reflected in the financial statements. Proceeds 
from deaccessions or insurance recoveries from lost or destroyed collection items are 
reflected as increases in the appropriate net asset class, and are designated for future 
collection acquisitions. 

Items that are acquired with the intent at the time of acquisition not to add them to 
the collections but rather to sell, exchange, or otherwise use them for financial gain 
are not considered collection items, and are recorded at fair market value at date of 
acquisition as other assets in the statement of financial position. 

(m) Annual Leave 

The Smithsonian's civil service employees earn annual leave in accordance with federal 
laws and regulations. Separate rules apply for trust employees. Annual leave for all 
employees is recognized as expense when earned. 

Cm) Government Grants and Contracts 

The Smithsonian receives grants and enters into contracts with the U.S. government 
and state and local governments, which primarily provide for cost reimbursement to 
the Smithsonian. Revenue from governmental grants and contracts is classified as 
unrestricted and is recognized as reimbursable expenditures are incurred, 

(o) Contributions 

The Smithsonian recognizes revenue from all contrllnilions as rexenuo in the period 
unconditional promises are received. 

Unrestricted contributions with payments due in future periods are initially recordeil 
as temporarily restricted supjiort, and are reclassified to unrestricted net assets when 
payments become due 

When donor restrictions are met on temporarily restrictei.1 conlrilnitions, the related 
net assets are reclassified as released from restrictions in the accoinpanvmg statement 
111 linancial ,Kti\ity. 

(lifts oi long-lived assets are recoriKd .is unrestricted reveiuie In the period riveivi\l. 
t;ontrilnilions ol lash ,uul ollni assets lestricted to the acquisition of longltved assets 



109 



are recorded as temporarily restricted revenue in the period received. The donor's 
restrictions expire and the related net assets are released from restriction when the 
long-lived asset is placed in service by the Smithsonian. 

In-kind contributions of goods and services totaling $6,310,000 v^fere received in 
fiscal year 1998 and recorded as program support in the accompanying statement of 
financial activity. The nature of the in-kind contributions primarily includes donated 
space and interactive multimedia software programs. 

A substantial number of volunteers also make significant contributions of time to the 
Smithsonian, enhancing its activities and programs. In fiscal year 1998, more than 
5,600 volunteers contributed over 496,000 hours of service to the Smithsonian. The 
value of these contributions is not recognized in the financial statements. 

(p) Advancement 

The Smithsonian raises private financial support from individual donors, corporations 
and foundations to fund programs and other initiatives. Funds are also generated 
through numerous membership programs. Fund-raising costs are expensed as incurred 
and reported as advancement expense in the statement of financial activity. Member- 
ship program costs are amortized over membership terms, typically one year, and are 
also reported as Advancement expenses. 

(q) Comparative Financial Statements 

The statement of financial activity includes certain prior-year summarized comparative 
information in total but not by net asset class. Such information does not include 
sufficient detail to constitute a presentation in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles. Accordingly, such information should be read in conjunction 
with the Smithsonian's financial statements for the year ended September 30, 1997, 
from which the summarized information was derived. 

(r) Reclassifications 

Certain amounts have been reclassified in prior year to conform with the current year 
presentation. 

(3) Receivables and Advances 

Receivables and advances consisted of the following at September 30, 1998: 

($000s) 



Auxiliary activities, net of $1,590,000 in allowances 

Contributions receivable, net 

Grants and contracts 

Interest and dividends due 

Advance payments 

Charitable trust 

Total receivables and advances 



(a) Contributions Receivable 

Contributions receivable (pledges) are recorded as revenue when received. Pledges for 
which payment is not due within one year are discounted based on United States 
Treasury risk-free obligation rates according to their corresponding terms. As of Sep- 
tember 30, 1998, the aggregate discounted contributions receivable was as follows: 



($000s) 



Trust 


Federal 


Total 


18,011 


_ 


18,011 


33,789 


— 


33,789 


13,264 


— 


13,264 


660 


— 


660 


1,171 


16,066 


17,237 


2,565 


— 


2,565 


69,460 


16,066 


85,526 



($000s) 



Due within: 

Less than 1 year 
1 to 5 years 
More than 5 years 



Less: 

Allowance for uncollectible pledges 
Discount to present value 



14,079 

21,596 

5.964 



41,639 



(4,356) 
(3,494) 



Contributions receivable, net 



33,789 



At September 30, 1998, the Smithsonian has outstanding conditional contributions 
totaling $14,000,000 which will be recognized when the specific conditions are met. 

(b) Advance Payments 

At September 30, 1998, federal advance payments of $16,066,000 represent prepay- 
ments made to government agencies, educational institutions, firms and individuals 
for services to be rendered, or property or materials to be furnished. 

At September 30, 1998, Smithsonian advance payments included amounts paid to 
the General Services Administration of $8,512,000 for equipment purchases for the 
Museum Support Center and other projects to be completed in future years. 

(4) Reconciliation of Federal Appropriations 

Federal appropriation revenue recognized in fiscal year 1998 can be reconciled to the 
federal appropriations received in fiscal year 1998 as follows: 



Federal appropriation revenue 
Unexpended 1998 appropriation 
Amounts expended from prior years 
Odier funding 

Fiscal year 1998 federal 
appropriations 



Salaries and 
Expenses 

331,484 
49,723 

(46,724) 
(1.075) 

333,408 



Repair and 

Restoration and 

Construction 

61,548 

68,850 

(61,548) 



68,850 



Total 



393,032 

118,573 

(108,272) 

(1,075) 



402.258 



Federal expenses recognized in fiscal year 1998 can be reconciled to the federal appro- 
priations received in fiscal year 1998 as follows: 



($000s) 







Repair and 






Salaries and 


Restoration and 






Expenses 
$ 331,426 


Construction 


Total 


Federal expenses 


31,527 


362,95; 


Unexpended 1998 appropriation 


49,723 


68,850 


118,57 


Depreciation 


(6,966) 


(31,527) 


(38,493 


Supplies consumption 


82 


— 


g 


Loss on disposition of assets 


(219) 


— 


(21! 


Unfiinded annual leave 


(277) 


— 


(27- 


Amounts expended from prior years 


(46,724) 


(61,548) 


(108,272 


Capital expenditures 


7,438 


61,548 


68,98i 


Other funding 


(1.075) 


— 


(1,075 


Fiscal year 1998 federal 






appropnations 


$ 333,408 


68,850 


402,25! 



Federal unrestricted net assets primarily represent the Smithsonian's net investmenf 
in property, plant and equipment purchased with or constructed using federal appro- 
priated funds. 

Unexpended appropriations for all fiscal years total $182,623,000 at September 30, 
1998, and consist of $73,332,000 in unexpended operating funds and $109,291,000 it 
unexpended repair and restoration and construction funds. Unexpended operating 
funds include amounts for the Museum Support Center move and the National 
Museum of the American Indian. Unexpended repair and restoration funds represent 
amounts available for on-going major repair and restoration of the Smithsonian's 
museums and facilities. Unexpended construction funds represent amounts appropri- 
ated but not yet expended for construction of new facilities. 

(5) Accessions and Deaccessions 

For fiscal year 1998, $6,938,000 of trust funds and $1,893,000 of federal funds were 
spent to acquire collection items. Proceeds from trust fund deaccessions were 
$737,000. There were no deaccessions of collection items purchased with federal 
funds in fiscal year 1998. At September 30, 1998, accumulated proceeds and related 
earnings from deaccessions of $16,269,000 were designated for collections acquisition 
in the trust funds. 

Non-cash deaccessions result from the exchange, donation, or destruction of collec- 
tion items, and occur because objects deteriorate, are beyond the scope of a museum's 
mission, or are duplicative. During fiscal year 1998, the Smithsonian's noncash 
deaccessions included works of art, animals, historical objects, and natural specimens. 
Contributed items held for sale total $4,300,000 and are reported as other assets in the 
statement of financial position. 

(6) Investments 

At September 30, 1998, investments consisted of the following: 



($000s) 



Short-term investments: 
Cash equivalents 
U.S. Government obligations 



Endowment and similar investments: 
Pooled investments: 
Cash equivalents 

U.S. Government and quasi-govemment obligations 
Corporate bonds and other obligations 
Common and preferred stocks 

Total pooled investments 

Nonpooled investments: 

Deposits with U.S. Treasury 

Total endowment and similar investments 

Gift annuity program investments: 
Corporate bonds and other obligations 
Common and preferred stock 



Total investments 



16,407 
24,625 



41,032 



5,270 

55.731 

169,779 

373,146 



603,926 
1,050 



604,976 



140 
307 



447 



646,455 



110 



(7) True Endowment and Funds Functioning as Endowments 

The Smithsonian uses the "total return" approach to investment management of 
pooled true endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds, referred to collectively as 
the endowment. Each year, the endowment pays out an amount for current expendi- 
tures based upon a number of factors evaluated and approved by the Board of Regents. 
The payout for 1998 was 4.5 percent of the average market value of the endowment 
over the prior five years. The difference between the total return (i.e., dividends, inter- 
"est and net gains), and the payout is reinvested when there is an excess of total return 
.over payout, or withdrawn from previously accumulated returns when there is a defi- 
ciency of total return to payout. The payout amount exceeded the total return in fiscal 
year 1998 and the deficit was withdrawn from the endowment asset pool. The with- 
drawal is reported as a non-operating loss in the accompanying statement of financial 
activity (see note 8). 

Substantially all of the investments of the endowment are pooled on a market value 
■ basis, with individual funds subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the per 
unit market value at the beginning of the month in which the transaction takes place. 
At September 30, 1998, each unit had a market value of $614. The market value of the 
pool's net assets at September 30, 1998, was $579,444,000. This represents all pooled 
investments plus net receivables and payables related to investment transactions. 

Each fund participating in the investment pool receives an annual payout equal to 
the number of units owned times the annual payout amount per unit. The payout for 
fiscal year 1998 was $21.00 per unit. Based on approved Board policy, if the market 
value of any endowment fund is less than 110 percent of the historical value, the cur- 
rent payout is limited to the actual interest and dividends allocable to that fund. 

Net asset balances of the endowment consisted of the following at September 30, 1998: 



($000s) 



Unrestricted 
Unrestricted-designated 



215,094 

172.514 



Total unrestricted 



Temporarily restricted 
Permanently restricted 



387,608 



138,686 
62,972 



Total endowment net assets 



589,266 



(8) Composition of Total Return from Investments 

Total return from investments consisted of the following for the year ended Septem- 
ber 30, 1998: 



Composition of Endowment Return: 

Endowment payout 

Payout in excess of investment income 

Total investment income 
Less - investment fees 

Net investment income 
Net realized and unrealized loss on investments 

Endowment total return 



($000s) 



19,726 
(2,171) 



17,555 
(1.469) 



16.086 
(27.185) 



( 1 1 .099) 



Endowment total return is reported as $19,726,000 in operating revenue and 
($30,825,000) in nonoperating endowment return in the statement of financial activity. 



Composition of Sliort-Tenn Investment Total Return: 



I Inlercslanddividcnds 

. Net realized and unrealized gain on investments 

Shori-lerm inveslmeiU total return 



(.$000s) 



1,700 
680 



2.3SO 



(9) Property and Equipment 

Property and equipment consisted of the following at September 30, 1998: 



(1,11(11 Is) 



I Land 

' Buildings and capital improvements 

Equipment 
li^^shold improvements 

- Accumulatcddeprcciation 

Total propeity and cquipnioiil 



At .September 30, I99K, hulklings ^ind cajjilal improvements irK hided $28, 1 i.S.OOO 
and $125,29(),0()0 of constriiclion in progress within Trust and I'ederal Itiiids, respec- 



Trust 


l-cdcr.il 


Ibtal 


2,387 

159,668 

25,295 

2.290 


818,.325 
49,283 


2,387 
977.993 

74,578 
2.290 


189,640 
(69.901) 


867,608 
(427.5051 


1.057,248 
(497.406) 


119.739 


■l-l(l.l(H 


559.842 



I 



tively. Depreciation expense for fiscal year 1998 totaled $38,493,000 in the federal 
funds and $7,388,000 in the trust funds. 



(10) Debt 

In January 1998, the District of Columbia issued $41.3 million of tax-exempt revenue 
bonds on behalf of the Smithsonian. The Smithsonian is obligated under these bonds 
as follows: 



(SOOOs) 



Series 1997 Revenue Bonds. Serial, with principal amounts ranging 
from $800,000 to $1,225,000 interest rales ranging from 4.10% 
to 4.75%, maturing at various points from February 1, 2002 
through 2012 

Series 1997 Revenue Bonds, Term: 

Interest rate 5.00% due February 1, 2017 
Interest rate 4.75% due February 1, 2018 
Interest rate 5.00% due February 1 , 2028 

Total bonds at face value 

Less - unamortized bond discount 

Total bonds payable 



10,950 



7.105 
1,640 

21,625 



41,320 
(794) 



40.526 



The serial and term bonds represent an unsecured general obligation of the Smith- 
sonian. Proceeds from the sale of the bonds will finance certain renovations of and 
improvements to the National Museum of Natural History, fund capitalized interest, 
and pay certain costs of issuing the bonds. Interest on the bonds is payable semi- 
annually on August 1 and February 1, beginning on August 1, 1998. Principal and 
interest payments will be funded solely through unrestricted Trust funds. 

The term bonds maturing on February 1, 2017 and 2028 are subject to mandatory 
redemption by operations of sinking fund installments. Installment payments for the 
term bond maturing February 1, 2017, begin on February 1, 2013 and range from 
$1,285,000 to $1,565,000 per year through the maturity date. Installment payments 
for the term bond maturing February 1, 2028 begin on February 1, 2019 and range 
from $1,720,000 to $2,665,000 per year through the maturity date. 

Interest expense on bonds payable for fiscal year 1998 totaled $1,332,000, net of 
capitalized interest of $173,000. 

At September 30, 1998, the Smithsonian also had an interest-free loan from the 
Virginia Department of Aviation totaling $1,000,000. The Virginia Department of 
Aviation agreed, in fiscal year 1995, to make available to the Smithsonian an interest- 
free loan facility totaling $3 million, of which $500,000 was drawn in fiscal years 1996 
and 1997. This loan facility is intended to assist in the financing of the planning, 
marketing, fund-raising, and design of the proposed National Air and Space Museum 
extension at Washington Dulles International Airport. The Smithsonian is scheduled 
to repay the outstanding loan not later than June 30, 2000. 

(11) Affiliate Relationships 

The Smithsonian provides certain fiscal, procurement, facilities and administrative 
services to several separately incorporated affiliated organizations for which certain 
officials of the Smithsonian serve on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the 
Smithsonian by these organizations for the above services totaled $164,000 of trust 
funds and $70,000 of federal hinds for fiscal year 1998. 

Deposits held in custody for these organizations at September 30, 1998, were 
$4,864,000 and were recorded in the trust funds. 

The Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ), an independent 501(c)(3) organization, 
raises funds for the benefit of the Smithsonian's National Zoological Park. Funds 
received by the Smithsonian from FONZ are recorded as unrestricted revenue and 
totaled $548,000 in fiscal year 1998. 

(12) Commitments and Contingencies 

(a) Leasing Activities 

Leases for Smithsonian warehouse and office spaces provide for rent escalations to 
coincide with increases in property taxes, operating expenses attributable to the leased 
property and the Consumer Price Index. The Smithsonian has the authority to enter 
into leases for up to 30 years using federal funds. 

The Smithsonian's operating leases for the warehouse and office spaces require lutiire 
minimum lease payments as follows: 

(SOOOs) 



1999 
2()()() 
2001 
2002 
2003 
Thereiiflcr 

Total 



13,066 
9.550 
9.291 
9,119 
8,240 

J9.549 



7S.,'(|5 



Keiil.il f\|K'nsi> lor these opet.itiiig leases totaled $ l,^,."l lo.OOO lot fiscal \ear I^WS, 



111 



(b) Government Grants and Contracts 

The Smithsonian receives funding or reimbursement from governmental agencies for 
various activities which are subject to audit. Audits of these activities have been 
completed through fiscal year 1997, hovi'ever, fiscal year 1997 has not been closed with 
the cognizant federal audit agency. Management believes that any adjustments which 
may result from this audit and the audit for fiscal year 1998 will not have a materially 
adverse effect on the Smithsonian's financial statements. 

(c) Litigation 

The Smithsonian is a party to various litigation arising out of the normal conduct of 
its operations. In the opinion of the Smithsonian's General Counsel, the ultimate 
resolution of these matters will not have a materially adverse effect on the Smith- 
sonian's financial statements. 

(13) Employee Benefit Plans 

The federal employees of the Smithsonian are covered by either the Civil Service Retire- 
ment System (CSRS) or the Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS). The terms of 
these plans are defined in federal regulations. Under both systems, the Smithsonian 
withholds from each federal employee's salary the required salary percentage. The 
Smithsonian also contributes specified percentages. The Smithsonian's expense for 
these plans for fiscal year 1998 v/as $15,959,000. 

The Smithsonian has a separate defined contribution retirement plan for trust fund 
employees, in which substantially all such employees are eligible to participate. Under 
the plan, the Smithsonian contributes stipulated percentages of salary which are used 
to purchase individual annuities, the rights to which are immediately vested with the 
employees. Employees can make voluntary contributions, subject to certain limita- 
tions. The Smithsonian's cost of the plan for fiscal year 1998 was $9,365,000. 

In addition to the Smithsonian's retirement plans, the Smithsonian makes available 
certain health care and life insurance benefits to active and retired trust fund employ- 
ees. The plan is contributory for retirees and requires payment of premiums and de- 
ductibles. Retiree contributions for premiums are established by an insurance carrier 
based on the average per capita cost of benefit coverage for all participants, active and 
retired, in the Smithsonian's plan. 



The inclusion of retirees in the calculation of average per capita cost results in a 
higher average per capita cost than would result if only active employees were covered 
by the plan. Therefore, the Smithsonian has a postretirement benefit obligation total- 
ing $6,097,000 at September 30, 1998, for the portion of the expected future cost of thd 
retiree benefits that is not recovered through retiree contributions. The Smithsonian's f 
policy is to fund the cost of these benefits on the pay-as-you-go-basis. 

(14) Income Taxes 

The Smithsonian is recognized as exempt from income taxation under the provisions of 
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code). Organizations described in 
that section are taxable only on their unrelated business income. Periodical advertising 
sales is the main source of unrelated business income. An IRS determination letter has 
been received supporting the Smithsonian's taxexempt status. No provision for income 
taxes was required for fiscal year 1998. 

It is the opinion of the Smithsonian's management that the Smithsonian is also 
exempt from taxation as an instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section 
501(c)(1) of the Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all 
income taxation. The Smithsonian has not yet formally sought such dual status. 

(15) Restructuring of Smithsonian Press / Smithsonian Productions Divisions 

During fiscal year 1998, the Board voted to discontinue operations of three divisions o 
the Smithsonian Press/Smithsonian Productions auxiliary activity, including Smith- 
sonian Books, Smithsonian Collection of Recordings, and Smithsonian Videos, effective 
April 1, 1998. Costs associated with the closure, include write-offs of inventory and 
accounts receivable, accruals for contractual product and fulfillment contract guaran- 
tees, guaranteed royalties and commissions, potential merchandise returns, litigation 
claims and severance costs. In fiscal year 1998, the total loss from operations and 
closure of the three divisions was $4,791,000, the net effect of which is reported vrithii 
auxiliary activities in the statement of financial activity. 



I 



112 



I 



» 



Heckman 



BINDERY, INC. 
Douiul-lb-PlcaiK* 

OCT 02 



N. MANCHESTER, INDIANA 46962 



