
Smithsonian year 



1983 p MH^ 

cct. 



OEPOsmnv 





■■'- ' ■■••:-■• .■ v;-^ ^^^. r<;vv^; j,,;)i,:'^v,'^ i^^Mv-ii''- /"-:^;^?^.' 







Smithsonian Year • 1^53 




Z'^^: 




Smithsonian Year • ip8^ 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 

SEPTEMBER 30, 1983 




Smithsonian Institution Press • City of Washington • 1984 






For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, 
Washington, D.C. 20402 (paper cover). Stock number: 047-000-00393-8 



The Smithsonian Institution 



The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 
1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson 
of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United 
States of America "to found at Washington, under the name of 
the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and 
diffusion of knowledge among men." After receiving the property 
and accepting the trust. Congress incorporated the Institution in 
an "establishment," whose statutory members are the President, 
the Vice-President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive 
departments, and vested responsibility for administering the trust 
in the Smithsonian Board of Regents. 



THE ESTABLISHMENT 

Ronald Reagan, President of the United States 

George H. W. Bush, Vice-President of the United States 

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States 

George P. Shultz, Secretary of State 

Donald Regan, Secretary of the Treasury 

Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Defense 

William French Smith, Attorney General 

James G. Watt, Secretary of the Interior 

John R. Block, Secretary of Agriculture 

Malcolm Baldrige, Secretary of Commerce 

Raymond J. Donovan, Secretary of Labor 

Margaret M. Heckler, Secretary of Health and Human Services 

Terrel H. Bell, Secretary of Education 

Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 

Elizabeth H. Dole, Secretary of Transportation 

Donald P. Hodel, Secretary of Energy 



[v] 



Board of Regents and Secretary • September 30, 1983 



REGENTS OF THE Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio. Chancellor 
INSTITUTION George H. W. Bush, Vice-President of the United States, ex officio 

Edwin J. (Jake) Gam, Senator from Utah 

Barry Goldwater, Senator from Arizona 

James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee 

Edward P. Boland, Representative from Massachusetts 

Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts 

Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California 

David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia 

Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas 

William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey 

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York 

Jeannine Smith Clark, citizen of the District of Columbia 

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California 

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania 

Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia 

EXECUTIVE Warren E. Burger, Chancellor 

COMMITTEE David C. Acheson 

William A. M. Burden 

Carlisle H. Humelsine (Chairman) 

THE SECRETARY S. Dillon Ripley 

Phillip S. Hughes, Under Secretary 

David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science 

Joseph Coudon, Special Assistant to the Secretary 

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the Secretary 

Christian C. Hohenlohe, Treasurer 

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration 

Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs 

Peter G. Powers, General Counsel 

John E. Reinhardt, Assistant Secretary for History and Art 

Ralph Rinzler, Assistant Secretary for Public Service 

James McK. Symington, Director, Office of Membership and Development 

Lawrence E. Taylor, Coordinator of Public Information 



[vi] 



Smithsonian Year . ipS^ 
CONTENTS 



page V THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

vi BOARD OF REGENTS AND SECRETARY 

3 STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 

39 FINANCIAL REPORT 

75 SCIENCE 

75 National Air and Space Museum 

83 National Museum of Natural History/National Museum of Man 

105 National Zoological Park 

113 Office of Biological Conservation 

115 Office of Fellowships and Grants 

120 Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 

140 Smithsonian Environmental Research Center 

158 Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute 

177 HISTORY AND ART 

177 Anacostia Neighborhood Museum 

179 Archives of American Art 

182 Cooper-Hewitt Museum 

188 Freer Gallery of Art 

194 Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden 

198 Joseph Henry Papers 

199 National Museum of African Art 
203 National Museum of American Art 
206 National Museum of American History 
217 National Portrait Gallery 

222 Office of American Studies 

225 MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

225 Conservation Analytical Laboratory 

230 National Museum Act Programs 

231 Office of Exhibits Central 
234 Office of Horticulture 

244 Office of International Activities 

246 Office of Museum Programs 



MUSEUM PROGRAMS, Continued 

259 Office of the Registrar 

260 Smithsonian Institution Archives 
265 Smithsonian Institution Libraries 

274 Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service 

279 PUBLIC SERVICE 

279 Office of Elementary and Secondary Education 

282 Office of Folklife Programs 

288 Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars 

291 Office of Telecommunications 

293 Smithsonian Institution Press 

296 Smithsonian Magazine 

297 Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center 

301 ADMINISTRATION 

302 Administrative and Support Activities 
306 Financial Management Activities 

308 Smithsonian Institution Women's Council Activities 

309 MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT 

309 Office of Development 

310 National Board of the Smithsonian Associates 

311 Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates 

312 James Smithson Society 

313 Smithsonian National Associate Program 
322 Smithsonian Resident Associate Program 

338 PUBLIC INFORMATION 

338 Office of Public Affairs 

343 READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC. 

349 WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS 

354 JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 

373 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

380 CHRONOLOGY 

401 APPENDICES 



SMITHSONIAN YEAR • 1983 

Relics of the True Cross 

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 
S. DILLON RIPLEY 

The Smithsonian Institution • 1984 




This recently acquired wooden figure of a woman and child from Kongo 
(Yombe), Zaire, was featured in the first of a series of exhibitions high- 
lighting objects from the collections of the National Museum of African Art. 
The 10 V4 -inch carving of the late nineteenth or early twentieth century is one 
of six known Yombe figures of that style— and the only one in a public 
museum collection in the United States. 



Relics of the True Cross 



S. DILLON RIPLEY 



The problems of museum philosophy seem to center around the 
subject of objects. As I have discussed in the past, it is my con- 
viction as a teacher over the years that there is "truth in objects." 
Even after years, museums have a long way to go to establish this 
essential and undeniable fact. Throughout the past generations, 
there has been a curious dichotomy in the view held by scholars 
in the history of art on the one hand, and in biology, geology, 
and the natural sciences on the other. In the history of art, there is 
a tendency to read about objects. There will be photographs of 
objects in publications, of course, taken at face value. It is not 
always necessary to handle the objects or to have them inspected, 
felt, touched, or treated in such a way as to involve physical 
contact. 

In the natural sciences, the tendency has been for the research 
worker to go directly to the object, to handle it, feel it, measure 
it, deal with it on a strongly tactile basis whether it be animate 
or inanimate, alive or dead, fossilized or impermeable rock. This 
dichotomy reaches into a whole realm of thinking about objects, 
I believe. It is evidenced occasionally in the presentation of objects 
as between art and the natural sciences. Art objects, especially 
physical objects such as examples of smaller sculpture in porcelain, 
stone, wood, or precious metals or gems, tend to be placed in an 
exhibit case or vitrine, a casket or monstrance on their own, essen- 
tially inviolate, as it were, as if it were necessary only to look at 
them and take heed of their substance from afar. Physical science 
objects may be exhibited in cases, but there is usually a fairly elab- 
orate explanation of why they are there, ranging from a label 
describing their characteristics to a diorama in which they are set 



against a representation of their own environment. There is much 
more of an effort to describe and explain objects in the physical 
sciences than there is with art objects. Art speaks for itself and 
the tradition has been that this is a closed communion between 
the viewer and the object without the necessity perhaps of contact 
or explanation. 

Something of the problem of divining truth from objects comes 
from these differences of approach. If an art object speaks for 
itself and has an ascription to the person who created it, that may 
be sufficient. It is then readily understandable that the art object 
represents a period, a time, or a phase in the thought, development, 
and history of the particular person who created it. It is not essen- 
tially necessary to touch it or to glean more information from it 
except for conservation purposes, or in the relatively undeveloped 
field of archaeometry, or for ascription in case it is suspected of 
being a fake. The latter rarely happens with natural objects, al- 
though, of course, conservation and material examinations, includ- 
ing anatomical and specific analyses, may often take place with 
specimens destined for further authentication. Occasionally a fake 
is discovered in this process. Although this may occur in the 
analysis of gems, it can even happen with other assumed natural 
objects, as I have noted in my own experience. Famous examples 
in the past have been the attempts to create new types of species 
out of natural objects such as the Piltdown skull, several kinds of 
new insects (which were proved to be assemblages of alien 
parts), and even a similar attempt to create a "humbug" in the 
form of a type of bird of which I know at least two examples in 
museum collections. 

The plain fact remains, however, that the lack of emphasis or 
weight on the pure intellectual knowledge of the truth of things 
from examining objects has never been sufficiently appreciated or 
understood in the broad perspective of education. Time out of 
mind, human beings have shown that they have inherent aptitudes 
and skills for reading objects through tactile methods rather than 
visual. Whether because they are blind, dyslexic, or because they 
are artists in different media, certain individuals learn far more 
from handling objects than just from looking at them or reading 
about them. If, then, there is an inherited tendency for humans 
to understand objects not only by the more traditional means of 

4 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



reading or looking, but also by being in contact with them, I 
would assume that this aspect of cognition should and could be 
appreciated by educators and should be included as part of the 
curriculum. 

Traditionally, it has been done in the case of conservators, who 
often receive training through a form of teacher-apprentice rela- 
tionship. But so much of education today is purely by rote, en 
masse, and done in order to get through certain requirements and 
achieve graduation from the course or the college, that there is 
still an implicit lack of understanding of such alternate skills 
except in medicine. Thus, the specialty of museums as object col- 
lectors continues to condemn these institutions to reside outside 
of the educational mainstream. Until proper recognition of their 
special role is given, I beUeve education will suffer. It is perhaps 
a symptom of today's malaise in education that even after partial 
recognition of the value of museums as experiences in learning 
has been achieved, no formal agreements with the education pro- 
fession have been ordained. Most museum teaching is still not 
officially recognized. 

Far be it from me to argue the merits or demerits of such recog- 
nition in itself. If education is inefficient and failing today, then 
surely the mere process of recognition would not solve anything. 
If people cannot learn by experience, then, of course, further ham- 
mering home of truths will hardly suffice. But I feel strongly that 
there is a key here to increased learning ability if educators can 
only grasp it and attempt to unlock the system. I suspect that far 
more people are capable of learning through contact with objects 
than we ever imagine. There might well be an overall improvement 
in education processes if more of this type of learning were done 
on a broader scale. After all, the Montessori kindergarten and 
hands-on training systems have given us a clue as to the synthesis 
of skills as between hand and eye. Museums and museum experi- 
ences should have helped to enhance and reinforce that principle. 
Education today should not cease to encourage every possible en- 
hancement of the processes of learning in order to improve itself. 
Let us hope that such recognition will come to pass in the imme- 
diate future. 

Perhaps the greatest achievement of this year for the Smith- 
sonian has been the final opening on May 16 of the Museum Sup- 

Statement by the Secretary / 5 







i 




i 



to^^BtBNUftB* 




i.,Mmmmi>m»»- 





|**''JPBW«ar 






MSC floor plan 

1 Anthropology 

2 Botany 

3 Mineral Sciences 

4 Paleobiology 

5 Entomology 

6 Administration 

7 Food service 

8 Vertebrate Zoology 

9 Invertebrate Zoology 

10 Oceanographic Sorting Center 

11 ADP/Registrar 

12 Building manager 

13 Protection Services 

14 Shipping, receiving, fumigation 

15 Loading dock 

16 Plant Services 

17 Energy plant 

18 Anthropology 

19 American History 

20 Photography lab 

21 Library 

22 Conservation Analytical Lab 

23 Open to below 



GROUND FLOORS 



The Smithsonian's impressive new Museum Support Center, designed to 
house and preserve more than six million objects in a stable and controlled 
environment, was dedicated on May 16, 1983. An aerial photograph of this 
unique, ultra-modern facility — approximately five acres under one roof — is 
shown on the preceding pages. On the opposite page is an interior view of 
the building showing a skylighted "street" area. Deceptively quiet in this 
photograph, taken soon after construction, the "street" will become a bustling 
thoroughfare, filled with scholars, conservators, and other workers going 
about their tasks in the Center, which is designed for all aspects of conserva- 
tion as well as for storage. (Photographs by Jeffrey Tinsley and Dane Penland) 



Below: Carolyn Rose, head conservator in the National Museum of Natural 
History's Anthropology Department, is shown in storage pod one with some 
of the anthropological treasures that will soon fill this area of the Museum 
Support Center. (Photograph by Dane Penland) 







'^pt? 



^&^^^^Ki 



port Center. Many years in the planning, as all our structures seem 
to be, this center consists of four enormous pods, each the size of 
a football field and thirty feet high, with ample devices for se- 
curity, humidity, air conditioning, heating, and so forth. These 
four pods are connected by a kind of "galleria" which joins 
them all and provides adjunct access to study areas, research 
laboratories, preparation facilities, and above all, a huge conserva- 
tion training and laboratory area. The hope is obviously that ap- 
propriate recognition will be given to the fact that merely having 
objects is not enough. 

Museums are deficient today in the resources and the advance 
preparation for conservation. The preservation of objects already 
in the possession of museums is a project almost as stupendous 
as the rebuilding of the public road system in the United States. 
The wear and tear on objects, even those maintained in museums, 
while often imperceptible, is unceasing. Objects are deteriorating 
as we look at them. The evidence collected in museums, while 
pathetically small in itself as far as representing the scope and 
sweep of past history is concerned, declines every day through 
largely unnoticeable deterioration. Unless an enormous, conscious 
effort is made to create an understanding of the priority for major 
conservation in at least a dozen fields, the museums of the future 
will find themselves veritable sepulchres, the objects preserved 
with such care as relics of the true cross, fading away into dust, 
just perhaps as many of the so-called "relics of the true cross" 
have already vanished from the scene, leaving behind the gilded, 
bejeweled monstrances or pyxes in which they were encased. 

Thus, it would appear that the creation of this Museum Support 
Center presages a new dimension in the treatment of objects for 
the future. The more that can be done to encourage such sophisti- 
cated museum storage, research, and conservation the better. Our 
center, built with so much effort and trial and error, should be an 
example for the future for all museum practice. We are deeply 
grateful to the Office of Management and Budget and the Congress 
for having given us the funds to create this pace-setting structure, 
as well as to those of our staff, such as Frank Taylor, Robert Organ, 
and Paul Perrot, who have never lost sight of this vast priority. 
With the necessary space and skills available, we expect a special 
research task will be at work on the abstruse problems of why 

10 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



certain categories of objects deteriorate as they do. There are 
realms in chemistry and physical analysis which are still un- 
plumbed. It should be our duty to undertake such research. Addi- 
tionally, the field of archaeometry, now in its infancy, will deserve 
expanded time and effort as an enhancement of our curatorial 
studies. 

We are earnestly hopeful that the results will prove even more 
successful than anticipated, and that several more of these kinds 
of centers will be constructed over the years ahead. Our first essay 
in museum support facilities of this kind is primarily for natural 
history objects, as it has been demonstrated over the years that 
the Museum of Natural History/Museum of Man, with its im- 
mense collections in the natural sciences and in anthropology, is 
hideously cramped as well as understaffed, and quantities of the 
objects have been so jammed away as to be rendered virtually 
inaccessible. The dangers, of course, to such collections are ir- 
remediable. In any case, there is hope for the future and promise 
for generations-to-be in understanding and comprehension of the 
wonders of objects made by the hand of man as well as those 
created in nature. 

I like to think of an object, whether it be a sophisticated one 
from the past made by people enumerated in history, or a natural 
object, as something which in itself represents a fragment of "the 
true cross." All of the wonders of nature which surround us, and 
which are so imperiled today by our own plundering of the planet, 
deserve constant admiration and respect. It is impossible to think 
of natural objects as having been created solely for the pleasure of 
mankind or mankind's own understanding or utility. Rather, like 
some vast symphony with interwoven themes, the existence of 
natural objects in nature seems to interact the one with the other, 
making way over periods of time through evolutionary processes 
for further intricacies of intercommunication and balance. We tend 
to overlook or be indifferent to the powers and subtleties of nature 
as we withdraw more and more into our own cocoons created by 
technological skills. This is a sadness, for there is so much to learn by 
example from the harmonies of nature, so much that is benign and 
potentially an example for cultural and philosophic understanding. 

Who is there who does not realize that the contemplation of 
nature unspoiled and capable of its own separate pattern of move- 

Statement by the Secretary / 11 



ment and evolution produces a calming and renewing impression? 
Most of us like to escape from our beehive-like tombs in which 
we live and work. For a majority of humankind, technological 
skills and superior caskets of space in which to exhibit ourselves 
as in self-contained vitrines are enough, but all of us long for a 
less inhibiting, less conforming, and less frenetic setting. Perhaps 
there is no answer to this in the present overpopulated planet, but 
we could all wish for the possibihty to commune with nature with 
the stillness and perfection of such creation. Meanwhile, if most 
of us are deprived from seeing or touching the elements which 
are part of nature, at least museums and other collections such as 
the great zoological and botanical gardens can preserve vital 
segments of the evidence. 

The pursuit of truth as seen through objects should lead us to 
revere especially the traditions and the cultures which have pro- 
duced those objects. Cultures mold us from the instant we are born, 
making us unconsciously captive within our environment, our living 
apparatus, and our ways. Cultures vary within communities and 
will continue to do so for a very long time, as we learn by lessons 
international or otherwise every day. Cultural homogenization 
tends not to take — as we should know. The mere observing of 
cultural variation should teach, should be sufficiently rewarding in 
itself, a continual object lesson. How should we react? Why should 
we not accept such variety as part of social diversity, as refreshing 
as biological diversity itself. 

We should encourage the creation of a shield against the dis- 
appearance of present-day existing cultures, alien as some may 
seem to be to our Western world and to the rapid development of 
the postindustrial technological age. 

The preservation of cultures might be an additional shield against 
natural catastrophe. We are in great danger within the next two 
generations of losing perhaps one-third of the natural species of 
the world, known and unknown, among whom we live, and in the 
process, creating an irreversible tragedy. A major concomitant of 
life on earth seems to imply that nature adapts through evolution 
to create increasingly complex states of biological diversity. Surely 
there is a lesson in this, for if the process is harmed or otherwise 
seriously affected, we cannot recreate it by any known techno- 
logical means, including the marvels of genetics still to be. Having 

12 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



J^k. 



Renowned sitar musician Imrat Khan and his sons, Nishat and Irshad (at 
right), along with Shafaat (far left), master of the tabla, provided Smith- 
sonian Resident Associates with an evening of improvisations on classical 
Indian ragas. (Photograph by Lillian M. O'Connell) 



A summer intern with the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, 
Scott Graf, stationed at the National Zoo, meets a small-clawed otter face-to- 
face. (Photograph by Clark Meyer) 




lost a measure of diversity, we may be sealing our own demise, 
for in this principle of diversity may lie much of the future and 
the promise for ourselves. 

I note in traveling to far places in less-developed countries an 
essential harmony between people who have always lived on the 
land, and their surroundings, whether they be in forest or desert 
or scrub, and who sustain themselves through simple methods of 
agriculture, by which they thus live in a cooperative state with 
nature. I note with dismay the vast changes being wreaked upon 
tropical environments by modern technology. Lumbering and the 
destruction of forests bring advancing desiccation everywhere. The 
failure to grasp the principles of soil and water, the balance between 
agriculture and fallow land, brings on the seemingly inevitable 
disappearance of the forests themselves (which flourish on poor 
soils not capable of cultivation) and the resulting problems of 
erosion, laterization, and diminished rainfall. All of these problems 
persist in spite of warning and example. Where remedial actions 
have been taken they seem to exist only in bits and pieces, here 
and there. 

The question of minimal space required for the preservation of 
species is one which still eludes us, for the complex web of species 
in nature, especially in the tropics, is still only beginning to be 
unraveled. What we should be cultivating in the world today is 
not the development of armies equipped with weapons or tech- 
nological wizardry, but rather a "green army" of people dedicated 
to environmental understanding and conservation, before it is too 
late. 

Much of this impetus towards conservation and environmental 
preservation is inexorably linked to the presence of a variety of 
cultures. People living in harmony with nature tend to be the 
same people who are concerned about preserving cultural tradi- 
tions. That their children should neglect these concepts or overlook 
their memories could be fatal for the future. How much of all of 
this still seems unintelligible to administrators and governments! 
It would be our hope at the Smithsonian that understanding and 
respect for the cultural heritage of the majority of the world's 
peoples today could be a goal to achieve through demonstrations, 
exhibits, and open education. Such results could perform a service 
for all humanity. It remains to be seen how long it will be before 

14 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



governments can understand that the preservation of varieties of 
cultures is part of the process of environmental balance. Tech- 
nology transfer is not enough, unless it marches hand in hand 
with the preservation of indigenous cultures and the accompany- 
ing environmental stability. The alternative is only failure. 

Nature as a vast organism is capable of brushing aside many of 
the by-products of present-day evolved civilization, such as acid 
rain, mercury content in water, pollution in soils, the effect of 
pesticides (some of which are quite doted upon by certain insects), 
and the deterioration of the quality of life which occurs in major 
urban centers. We are all acquainted with many of the overtones 
of these aspects of our advanced civilization. It is true, however, 
that in nature there are still ample means for absorbing and 
diminishing such effects. The ozone-layer phenomenon appears to 
be not nearly so significant as thought a few years back, likewise 
mercury in the water and other scare stories of the time. It is true 
also that natural phenomena, such as major terrestrial upheavals, 
volcanoes, earthquakes and their by-products, may well be as 
significant as much of environmental destruction wreaked by 
humans. However, we certainly are narrowing the gap. Let us 
hope only that our new Smithsonian Center for African, Near 
Eastern, and Asian Cultures can in its own way help to remind 
people everywhere of the lesson to be learned that conservation 
in both the cultural and environmental sense is perhaps the dom- 
inant world problem. 



Although the main emphasis of the past year has been upon the 
completion and opening of the Museum Support Center, steady 
progress has been continuing on the creation of our new Center 
for African, Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures, which the An- 
nual Report for 1982 dwelt upon at length. We described 
there how the Smithsonian was embarking on an expansion on an 
international scale of our essential motto "for the increase and 
diffusion of knowledge among men," and I said at that time, "For 
perhaps the first time in our history, we are . . . [doing this] ... in 
a spirit of social responsibility as a creative effort to increase under- 
standing and respect for our neighbors." We are doing this in a 
novel way, combining the spirit of museums — collections and their 

Statement by the Secretary / 15 



exhibition and research upon them — with the spirit of creativity 
represented by enactments of hfe at all levels, from folklife through 
seminars among creative, intellectual, and political leaders. In a 
sense, the Center will represent a public arena in which an exposi- 
tion of the cultures of the past will combine with revelations of 
the rituals and performances of the past and present alike, as well 
as their preservation for the future. Joseph Henry, the first Secre- 
tary, said in 1874, "It is a moral obhgation that the present should 
acknowledge its indebtedness to the past, that it should transmit 
the knowledge which it has received, purified and increased, as a 
richer inheritance to the future." 

In what better way, then, could the Smithsonian assume an 
obligation towards the future than by showing how we should 
revere human creativity in the past through the development of 
culture and taste in objects of all sorts, from the decorative to the 
utilitarian, and how we should exhibit the persistence and tradi- 
tions of culture throughout the world. It seems, as I have noted 
above, that all traditions, especially in the less-developed countries, 
are disappearing in the face of the onslaughts of modern tech- 
nology and expertise as rapidly as the dust devils which settle on 
the edge of the airport after the departure of a jet plane from some 
remote capital. If no reverence is assigned to that past on which 
the cultural and intellectual accomplishments of two-thirds of the 
world's populations have been developed, then how can desired 
progress ever be assimilated? 

Support for the financing of the construction of the Center 
comes to us from Congress and our own notably successful efforts. 
A major gift of four million dollars and a collection of Asian art 
valued at well over fifty miUion dollars from Dr. Arthur Sackler 
was reported last year. Mrs. Enid A. Haupt has pledged support 
for the reconstruction of the gardens-to-be of the Center with a 
wonderful three-million-dollar gift. In the February issue of Smith- 
sonian magazine we appealed directly to our Associates for support 
of the Center; the results were wonderfully heartening. To date 
we have received over $1.4 million from that appeal alone, mostly 
in small donations. Bids for the work were opened in May 1983, 
and the contract eventually was awarded to the Blake Construction 
Company for a surprisingly low sum, well within our expectations. 
Even with the inevitable contingencies and the expected delays 

16 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



- .Jl 




Yi 



i' 



'Ji. 




A dazzling performance by the Rainbow Chinese Dancers was among the 160 pro- 
grams attended by more than 20,000 visitors at the Renwick Gallery in conjunction 
with Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual, a major exhibition that included 
over 600 objects from nine Smithsonian museums. 



The Office of Museum Programs developed a series of four Museum Career Days 
to familiarize students with the museum profession. Here, students representing 
thirteen countries are taken on a behind-the-scenes tour by Edward Lawson, head 
of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden's Education Department. More 
than seventy-five students from the D.C. Public Schools' Multicultural Career 
Intern Programs took part in these activities. 







and other problems of equipping the building, we anticipate re- 
maining within budget, a goal that the Institution has always set 
itself. If we can adhere to our construction schedule, the Center 
should be completed sometime in January 1986. 

Our continuing concern, once we have secured all the necessary 
construction funds, will be support for the programs for the Center 
itself, endowment on the one hand for exchange fellowships with 
the countries of the less-developed world, and on the other hand 
funds for exhibitions, seminars, festivals of the spirit, communion 
with all the nations and all their visitors of every description, so 
that the Center can bloom in intellectual splendor and grace. We 
are already being asked to submit proposals for continuing funds 
for endowment and grants in aid for these purposes. In another ten 
years, I would hazard, that should be the most active as well as 
ingenious program for cultural interchange in our country. 

Other major gifts during the past year have come from our 
National Associates Board members, particularly Gaylord Don- 
nelley, the Vernon Taylors, Brooks and Hope McCormick, Mary 
Burke, the James Kempers, Mr. and Mrs. Hadley Stuart, Mr. H. J. 
Heinz II, Mr. and Mrs. Joe Allbritton, Mrs. Elsie Hillman, Mr. 
and Mrs. Justin Dart, from foundations such as the Pew Me- 
morial Trust (especially for continuing educational programs 
in the Center), the Japan Foundation, and from corporate sources 
both here and abroad. The response from our Associates, especially 
their National Board, has been a tribute to their dedication and 
understanding. (A list of donations is published on pp. 637-57.) In 
effect, the programs of support for the Center are just beginning. 
From this person's point of view, the creation of the Center and 
the response elicited and forthcoming have been the most hearten- 
ing events at the Smithsonian in the past two years. For indeed 
these responses have been acts of faith. 

On June 21, 1983, a date of significance. Chief Justice Burger, 
as Chancellor of the Smithsonian, and Vice-President Bush, a 
member of the Board of Regents, joined me in turning the first 
symbolic shovels of earth at the ground-breaking ceremony for our 
Center in the four-acre quadrangle area bordered by the Smith- 
sonian's Castle, the Arts and Industries Building, Independence 
Avenue, and the Freer Gallery of Art. This was a fitting climax to 
many years of hard work, meticulous planning, and concrete ex- 

18 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



pressions of support by the Congress, the previous and present 
Administrations, and our friends in this country and abroad. It 
was fitting that as part of this festive ceremony, the many diplo- 
matic, foreign, and American guests were entertained at a reception 
by musicians and artists from the vast stretch of the world which 
will be the focus of the new center. 

During the year, the Smithsonian, viewed by many as primarily 
a repository for the principal relics of American culture, demon- 
strated its links with the world beyond our shores in a dramatic 
series of other ways. 

Thus, our interest in Japanese art and culture was highlighted by 
two exhibitions which opened in February: Japanese Ceramics from 
Past to Present at the Freer Gallery of Art and Japanese Ceramics 
Today: Masterworks from the Kikuchi Collection at the Thomas 
M. Evans Gallery in the National Museum of Natural History/ 
Museum of Man. The brilliant modern works displayed at the 
latter museum presented contemporary interpretations of the an- 
cient traditions exemplified by pieces on view at the Freer. 

The Evans Gallery, named for a longtime friend of the Institu- 
tion, was also the location for a major exhibition organized by 
Islam Centennial 1400, The Heritage of Islam, celebrating the rich- 
ness and diversity of the Islamic civilization over the centuries. 

A particularly instructive exhibition. The Silk Route and the 
Diamond Path, organized in Los Angeles by the Frederick S. Wight 
Art Gallery, UCLA, came to the Evans Gallery in May 1983. It 
delineated the connection between commerce and art. The ancient 
trade routes across the desiccated plateau of central Asia acted as 
a conduit for religion, cultural and population diffusion, and as 
a testament to the inevitability of the evidence that traders in the 
face of all dangers can persist in spreading their culture, their 
gospels, and their genes along with their goods. Thus it has been 
apparently throughout human history. 

An exhibition at the National Museum of African Art presented 
ceramic art styles and traditions of twenty-eight cultures from 
nineteen African nations. The exhibition included pottery, figura- 
tive sculpture, and a variety of functional objects. The oldest ex- 
amples were terra-cotta animal figures found in southwestern Chad 
and dated between the nineteenth and eighteenth centuries. The 
museum also offered African Emblems of Status, a fascinating dis- 

Statement by the Secretary / 19 



play of interest to students of culture as well as to art lovers. The 
exhibition, including objects representing some forty cultures in 
fourteen African nations, explored the variety of forms, materials, 
and art objects created by Africans to identify, honor, and cele- 
brate individuals of status and achievement. A third exhibition at 
this imaginative museum focused on the use and significance of 
color in the arts of thirty-nine African cultures. 

The Renwick Gallery continued its series of exhibitions and 
demonstrations, started in 1982, encompassed under the title 
Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual. The events, which sought 
to show how different peoples celebrate important events and 
cycles in their societies, included a St. Patrick's Day live celebra- 
tion of Irish music and dance. 

A touch of Scandinavia came to the Renwick by way of the 
Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the Institution's National Museum of 
decorative arts and design in New York City. Scandinavian Mod- 
ern: 1880-1980, a landmark exhibition documenting a remarkable 
century of creative design in Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, 
and Sweden, was organized by the Cooper-Hewitt as part of a 
multi-faceted program called Scandinavia Today and opened at 
the museum in New York in September 1982. The travehng exhi- 
bition arrived at the Renwick on July 8, 1983, and was greeted 
with critical praise, echoing the plaudits it received in New York. 

There was, of course, much emphasis on living American cul- 
ture and cultural heritage. Last spring the Hirshhorn Museum and 
Sculpture Garden mounted Directions 1983, an exhibition of nearly 
forty paintings, sculpture, constructed environments, and large- 
scale drawings by seventeen contemporary artists, together with a 
program of six films by independent filmmakers. The exhibition, 
the third in a series initiated by the museum in 1979 to provide 
a showcase for contemporary art, was organized around four 
themes: Directional Melodrama, Expressionisms, From the Model, 
and Real Space Illusion. 

The varied cultural traditions of the state of New Jersey and 
the nation of France charmed and surprised visitors to the seven- 
teenth annual Festival of American Folklife, held on the Mall the 
last week in June and over the July 4th weekend. From New Jersey 
came representatives of many ethnic groups and of industries rang- 
ing from vegetable farming and oyster harvesting to manufactur- 

20 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Secretary Ripley and the Amir of Bahrain, Sheik Isa bin Salman Al Khalifa, look 
at a model of the Mosque of Sulayman the Magnificent at the Heritage of Islam 
exhibition at the National Museum of Natural History. (Photograph by Dane Pen- 
land.) Below: Mr. and Mrs. Ripley (at left) meet with the Amir during a visit to 
Bahrain. At right is Bahrain's Minister of Information, Tariq Al Moayyed. Mr. 
Ripley discussed the Smithsonian's Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian 
Cultures with leaders of Persian Gulf nations. 




ing of computer parts. Approximately twenty-five participants 
came from France to share aspects of French regional traditions, 
music, food, and crafts. French- Americans also participated in the 
colorful festival. Thus, festival visitors could compare Old World 
traditions with the New World counterparts, influenced and 
changed by circumstances in this country. 

Americans in Brittany and Normandy: 1860-1910 opened at the 
National Museum of American Art with 118 paintings focusing 
on the art colonies at Pont Aven in Brittany and Giverny in Nor- 
mandy, villages which attracted many leading American artists 
during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. 

On May 24 the National Portrait Gallery placed on view the 
Gilbert Stuart "Edgehill" portrait of Thomas Jefferson, which had 
been purchased jointly in 1982 by the gallery and the Thomas 
Jefferson Memorial Foundation, owners of Monticello, where the 
portrait will be exhibited alternately in three-year cycles 

Other faces from the past were revealed in a mid-winter Portrait 
Gallery exhibition which was highly praised by critics and public 
alike. Hollywood Portrait Photographers showcased the mysteri- 
ous, glamorous, perfected images of screen legends created by 
skilled photographers during the star-studded decades from 1925 
to 1945. 

The gallery revealed a very different world in October when it 
unveiled Charles Willson Peale and His World, the first exhibition 
in this century completely devoted to the creative, inventive, and 
curious personality who was one of late-eighteenth-century Amer- 
ica's most accomplished artists, passionate patriots, and pioneering 
natural scientists. 

Smithsonian research in broad areas of science continued to 
flourish to the potential benefit of man and the creatures who share 
the globe with the human species. One striking example is the work 
of scientists from the National Museum of Natural History in ex- 
ploring a heretofore inaccessible and virtually unstudied world, the 
unseen levels of the tropical forest canopy which rises 100 to 120 
feet above the jungle floor. Thanks to revolutionary collecting 
methods developed by Smithsonian staff, our scientists are learn- 
ing that the tropical forest canopy is populated by an incredi- 
ble diversity of insect species — far more than anyone had ever 
guessed. Dr. Terry Erwin, who heads this research project in Peru, 

22 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



estimates that there could be as many as 30 miUion species world- 
wide, not 1.5 million as usually estimated. These pioneering studies 
have far-reaching implications in a whole range of biological fields, 
from helping to explain the unparalleled biological richness of 
the Amazon basin to applications in forestry, agriculture, and 
medicine. 

There is also great progress in the related work of the Smithsoni- 
an Tropical Research Institute in Panama. During the year the 
Institute received a $1,029,000 grant from the Alton Jones Foun- 
dation to carry out a series of innovative research projects aimed 
at developing or improving agricultural methods that will allay 
destruction of tropical forests. The five-year multidisciplinary proj- 
ect is aimed at eventually providing methods to supply sufficient 
food for human populations without damaging the tropical forests. 
It will include exploring possibilities of new crop species in forest 
areas, maximizing the reproductive yield of pacas (a native animal) 
in captivity, managing the green iguana in the wild and the aqua- 
culture of local fish species, and developing systems of exploiting 
as food sources the native animals that are not endangered. 

In May 1983 the National Air and Space Museum published 
Black Wings: The American Black in Aviation, a pictorial history 
of the courageous men and women who overcame tremendous 
odds — financial, political, and social — to pursue their dreams of 
flight. Most of the photographs had never before been published. 
The book, which contains a selective bibliography and research 
guide, grew out of research for the exhibition of the same name 
which is on view in the museum's Pioneers of Flight Gallery and a 
related symposium on black flyers of World War II, "The American 
Black in Aviation: A Decade of Change," held in February 1983. 

In a development designed to increase the efficiency of our 
science establishment, two bureatix were merged on July 1, 1983, 
into a single one, the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, 
which will focus on the environment from both the molecular and 
whole-organisms point of view. The consolidated center results 
from the merging of the Radiation Biology Laboratory, located in 
Rockville, Maryland, and the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environ- 
mental Studies, located in Edgewater, Maryland, near Annapolis. 
It is directed by Dr. William H. Klein, former director of rbl. 

In the meantime, research activities continued both in Rockville 

Statement by the Secretary / 23 



and Edgewater. At the Chesapeake Bay facility, David L. Correll, a 
biochemist, has been studying the phenomenon called acid rain for 
nearly ten years. Correll is among the few scientists who have 
made direct, long-term measurements of rainfall pH. His studies 
show that, in the last eight years, the mean annual acidity of bulk 
rainfall at his monitoring station in Edgewater has increased nearly 
five-fold. 

There was sadness and yet hope at the Smithsonian's National 
Zoological Park. For the first time. Ling Ling, the National Zoo's 
beloved female panda, gave birth to a cub on July 21, but the baby 
died some three hours after the birth. Nonetheless, zoo scientists 
pointed out to reporters at a crowded news conference that Ling 
Ling at long last had succeeded in becoming pregnant and in giving 
birth. They noted, as well, that the giant panda had treated her 
baby son with proper, caring maternal attention and that it is not 
unusual for first-time mothers in the animal kingdom to lose their 
offspring. "We're hopeful," acting nzp director Dr. Christen Wem- 
mer said, "that next year a cub will survive." 

One of the most intriguing events of this eventful year in the 
Institution's life came when production began on a major tele- 
vision series, "Smithsonian World." This seven-part series of one- 
hour programs, coproduced by the Smithsonian with weta-tv, the 
Washington public television station, was made possible by a 
generous grant from the McDonnell Foundation of St. Louis. The 
programs will explore a variety of major concepts — light, for ex- 
ample — in a variety of ways. We are fortunate in having been able 
to secure the services of writer/historian David McCullough, au- 
thor of The Great Bridge and The Path Between the Seas, as host 
of the series, and of the distinguished television producer Martin 
Carr as executive producer. 

In a significant development, phase one of our massive inventory 
project has been completed. This has been a major accomplishment 
indeed. The inventory has taken five years, cost $8,000,000, and 
has been the first thorough tabulation of the Smithsonian's col- 
lections since the founding of the Institution 137 years ago. 
Completed precisely on time, the "great counting," as it has been 
called, showed that the Smithsonian holdings now include some 
100 million artifacts and specimens, millions more than our highest 
preceding estimate. The staff has now begun the second or "recon- 
ciHation" phase of the inventory, matching preexisting records 

24 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Ling-Ling, the National Zoo's female giant panda, with her cub, born July 23, 1983. 
Unfortunately, the cub, a male, died not long after its birth. 



At the ribbon-cutting ceremony opening the new library of the Smithsonian 
Tropical Research Institute on April 7, 1983, were (left to right) Dr. David 
Challinor, Smithsonian Assistant Secretary for Science; His Excellency Juan Jose 
Amado III, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Republic of Panama; His Excellency Dr. 
Caspar Garcia de Paredes (cutting the ribbon). Minister of Health, Republic of 
Panama; and Dr. Ira Rubinoff, director of the Institute. 







against the new inventory findings and searching out either records 
or objects that appear to be missing or out of place. 

Smithsonian Press continues to produce a variety of creative and 
informative pubHcations. Among the works published in 1983 is 
The Muses Flee Hitler, an examination of the mass exodus of intel- 
lectuals from Europe during the Nazi regime. The volume includes 
twenty contributions by participants in the 1980 colloquium of the 
same name, organized by the Institution's Office of Symposia and 
Seminars in honor of the centennial of the birth of Albert Einstein, 
perhaps the most famous such refugee. 

Another Smithsonian publication focuses on a much broader 
span of history — and prehistory. Thread of Life: The Smithsonian 
Looks at Evolution, published in 1982, the centenary year of 
Charles Darwin's death, delves into evolutionary biology to reveal 
not only the story of life on Earth but also the history of evolution 
as a fundamental scientific idea. 

The twenty-fifth anniversary of the space age was marked in 
1983 by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and the Na- 
tional Air and Space Museum, both of which are involved in 
research into space exploration and its documentation. Sao success- 
fully completed a balloon flight of a far-infrared spectrometer and 
telescope for spectral analysis of the molecular constituents of the 
Earth's atmosphere. 

Four new Regents' Fellows were named in May 1983: Sir David 
R. Bates, professor of theoretical physics. Department of Applied 
Mathematics and Theoretical Physics, Queen's University of Bel- 
fast, Northern Ireland; Dr. J. B. Burch, professor of biological 
science and curator of mollusks. University of Michigan; Dr. 
Thomas A. Sebeok, distinguished professor of linguistics and 
semiotics and professor of anthropology, Indiana University; and 
Dr. Ernest E. Williams, Alexander Agassiz professor of zoology at 
Harvard University. The Regents' Fellowships were established in 
1980 to encourage outstanding scholars and research scientists to 
participate in the research, curatorial, and educational programs of 
the Smithsonian. Through the fellows' publications, the program 
contributes to the Institution's traditional objective of the "increase 
and diffusion of knowledge." 

This year we awarded the first of the James E. Webb Fellow- 
ships, established in 1982 in honor of Mr. Webb on his retirement 

26 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



from the Smithsonian Board of Regents. The fellowships are 
offered for the promotion of excellence in the management of cul- 
tural and scientific not-for-profit institutions, and three of the four 
recipients are Smithsonian employees. 

In the nearly twenty years since 1 initiated the Institution's 
domestic and foreign fellowship programs under Charles Blitzer 
and William Warner, the Smithsonian has become an academic 
crossroads, a major national force, counting some fourteen fellow- 
ship programs and internships including those stimulated by the 
dynamic Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and 
the Kennan Institute. 

Crucial to much of this work in the international field have been 
the foreign currency accounts granted to us each year by the Con- 
gress from holdings held in U.S. Treasury agreements. Now, fol- 
lowing the closing of the Egyptian account comes word of the 
imminent reduction of the Indian rupee account, and its final ter- 
mination in fiscal year 1985. The opening of new realms of inter- 
national understanding in Asia, the Middle East, and Africa, pre- 
saged by the development of our Center for African, Near Eastern, 
and Asian Cultures, which I have described in these pages, can be 
crippled drastically unless the novel and imaginative years of inter- 
national exchange organized by our Institution are recognized for 
what they represent, new avenues of understanding between peo- 
ples. Let the Administrations of the future and the Congress 
ponder these pioneering efforts and reflect on how much the Smith- 
sonian has accomplished in human terms at how small a cost. 
These programs are a model for the future and we hope to com- 
mission a volume report for their twentieth anniversary. 

In 1853 an article in The Ohio Cultivator (vol. 9, p. 250) de- 
scribed the Smithsonian Institution, "endowed with a princely 
munificence" (a popular myth for the struggling young organiza- 
tion), as an intellectual humbug. The Institution was characterized 
as "Lying in State," insensate, paralyzed, "a political hospital for 
the hungry pensioners of government." If such a calumny could 
be visited upon us in 1853 (and if the statement was even noticed, 
I feel sure it would have been vigorously rebutted by Professor 
Joseph Henry), let me say at once that I believe the value of our 
unique and noble Institution has been shown in many ways. One 
of the more obvious ones is that the preservation of collections. 

Statement by the Secretary / 27 



of objects, is a salient road to the truth, demonstrating many new 
facets of experience and human understanding. If our goal can be 
to explicate the truth in the preservation of relics, of true matter, 
then we shall have succeeded. In this sometimes unfashionable 
pursuit, undertaken by erstwhile unconventional scholars, let us 
relive the American experience to remind us of our hard-won birth- 
right — to point the way to the enjoyment of our rights as citizens 
of the world, in that world's only environment, our temporary 
home, our sole stopping place short of the stars. 

The saddest moments in the year came with the news that our 
good friends and wonderful Regents Nancy Hanks and Senator 
Scoop Jackson had died. The Regents adopted their own resolution 
in tribute to them, and the staff in both instances was simply numbed 
with grief. Different as they may have been, both were stalwarts in 
everything they did — as the nation, indeed the world, knew well. 
The presence of these lustrous Regents will long be felt at our In- 
stitution, one which we are proud to say they both loved so much. 
As in the past, throughout the year we found ourselves adjust- 
ing to a variety of changes in personnel. Charles Blitzer, seventeen 
years at the Smithsonian and our imaginative, energetic, and ac- 
complished Assistant Secretary for History and Art since 1968, 
accepted the directorship of the National Humanities Center in 
North Carolina. We had the good fortune of having on hand the 
acting director of the National Museum of African Art, Dr. John E. 
Reinhardt — formerly director of the International Communica- 
tion Agency, Ambassador to Nigeria, foreign service officer, and 
professor of English — who agreed to serve as Charles's successor. 
Similarly, we were fortunate to have Edward F. Rivinus as acting 
director of Public Service for a number of months, and then to 
be able to appoint Ralph Rinzler, director of the Folklife Office for 
many years, as the new Public Service Assistant Secretary. 

We have also had a number of changes in our museum and 
bureau leadership. Sylvia Williams, formerly the curator of Afri- 
can, Oceanic, and Primitive Art at the Brooklyn Museum, became 
the new director of the National Museum of African Art, while 
Dr. Roy Sieber, formerly a professor at Indiana University and 
curator of African and ethnographic arts there, was appointed 
associate director for Collections and Research at the museum. 
William Woolfenden retired after nineteen years as director of the 

28 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Mrs. Elliot Richardson, chairman of the Reading Is Fundamental Board of Directors, 
shares a book with a friend at the new Kenneth L. Pollock Children's Wing of the 
Osterhout Library in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. Mrs. Richardson spoke at the dedi- 
cation of the wing (Photograph by Ken Bizzigotti. Courtesy of Wide World Photos). 
Below: Teachers in the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's national sem- 
inar, "Teaching Writing Using Museums and Other Community Resources," develop 
materials at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. 




Archives of American Art, and we were fortunate to find 
Dr. Richard N. Murray, formerly director of the Birmingham (Ala- 
bama) Museum of Art, as his successor. Walter Boyne, a staff 
member of the National Air and Space Museum, was named direc- 
tor; and Dr. Irwin Shapiro, formerly of the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology, was appointed director of the Center for Astro- 
physics, succeeding George Field who has returned to research and 
teaching. Dr. Theodore H. Reed has retired from the directorship 
of the National Zoological Park, where he has served for twenty- 
eight years, and Robert Organ retired as director of the Conserva- 
tion Analytical Laboratory after sixteen years of Smithsonian 
service. 

We will be forever in debt to the aforementioned retirees and 
countless other Smithsonian staff who have moved on, just as we 
delight in seeing their successors settle in and bring fresh perspec- 
tives to their jobs. Knowing these and many other staff, I continue 
to delight in the truism that this Institution has long owed its 
greatness to a formidable cadre of talented, interested, and dedi- 
cated "Smithsonians," as we call ourselves. 



The Board of Regents 



The first meeting of the Board of Regents was held on January 24, 
1983, and opened with a warm and solemn tribute to Nancy 
Hanks, the late Regent. The Regents expressed their deep regret at 
the loss to the Institution by her death on January 7, recalling her 
splendid contributions to the arts and the Smithsonian. 

The Audit and Review Committee reported on its joint meeting 
with the Personnel Committee on October 7, 1982. The commit- 
tees discussed the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Stud- 
ies, draft Standards of Conduct, the Institution's tax status, the 

30 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



review of the gem collections, and the deficit in the Division of 
Performing Arts. The Personnel Committee reported that it had 
found no conflict of interest whatsoever in the financial interests 
statements of the executive staff. 

The Treasurer, Mr. Hohenlohe, presented a report on the net 
operating funds for fiscal year 1982 and the federal appropriations 
for fiscal year 1983. He also discussed the Office of Management 
and Budget's allowance for fiscal year 1984. He noted that the 
level of contributions to the Institution over the past four years, 
exclusive of gifts for the Quadrangle, more than doubled from 
$2.5 million to $5.6 million. 

The Assistant Secretary for Administration, Mr. Jameson, intro- 
duced the current Prospectus, FY 1984-1988 by summarizing the 
process over the last four years. Comparing actual developments 
with those anticipated, he noted success in collections manage- 
ment, acquisition of new facilities for research and public use, pub- 
lications, museum security, and development of the trust fund 
endowment, with less success realized in building support for basic 
research, a priority of the current Prospectus. After discussion, the 
Regents approved the proposed Prospectus. 

The October 2, 1982, Continuing Resolution contained an ap- 
propriation of $36.5 million for Quadrangle construction, and in 
accordance with the Regents' resolution of September 20, 1982, 
the Chancellor certified on behalf of the Board that trust funds 
are available for construction. In order to permit the Institution 
to accept quickly a favorable bid, the Board authorized the Secre- 
tary to accept a General Services Administration contract within 
the estimates for the construction. 

The Secretary reported that construction of the Museum Sup- 
port Center was virtually complete at year's end. Security and in- 
formation systems, laboratory equipment, and some collection- 
storage equipment will be installed prior to program and collection 
occupancy. A special task force has been planning for the reloca- 
tion of collections and personnel to the center, and Mr. Ripley 
added that all museums are expected to complete "baseline" inven- 
tories in 1983. 

The Secretary announced that the Smithsonian is seeking to 
purchase four acres as a site for the headquarters of the Whipple 
Observatory. The Secretary also observed that the more intensive 

Statement by the Secretary / 31 



use of the Barro Colorado Island for science, under agreements 
relating to the 1979 Panama Canal Treaty, the pressures of infla- 
tion, and the need for improvements, has made the existing spend- 
ing limit unrealistic. He suggested that this anomalous statutory 
limit be eliminated. After discussion, the Regents requested their 
Congressional members to introduce and support legislation to 
effect these purposes. 

The Secretary reported that, occasioned by the prospective move 
to the Museum Support Center and into the Quadrangle, as well 
as the escalating costs of leasing office and industrial/ storage spaced 
a comprehensive review has been undertaken to study the most 
appropriate use of Institution space, to improve functional rela- 
tionships among units, and to return space to public use. In a 
general exploration of opportunities, the Institution has reaffirmed 
interest in the International Trade Commission Building adjacent 
to the National Museum of American Art and Portrait Gallery. 

The Regents voted to appoint Regent Senator Edwin J. "Jake" 
Garn as Chairman of the Commission of the National Portrait 
Gallery and Mr. Robert O. Anderson as a commission member. 
As recommended by the Commission of the National Museum of 
American Art, the Regents amended the bylaws of the commission 
to ensure more frequent rotation of membership, reappointed cur- 
rent members toward that end, and appointed Messrs. R. Crosby 
Kemper and David S. Purvis to the commission. 

The Secretary announced that Mr. Arthur Ross, a member of the 
Cooper-Hewitt Council and frequent supporter of the museum's 
exhibition program, has made a seminal pledge toward the capital 
fund drive to raise $20 million for a new wing at the Cooper- 
Hewitt, and the Regents resolved that a gallery in the new facility 
would bear his name. In other actions, the Regents voted to award 
the Langley Medal to H. Ross Perot, Jr., and Jay Coburn in recog- 
nition of the significance of their circumnavigation of the world in 
a helicopter, September 1-30, 1982. The Regents also congratu- 
lated the Secretary on receipt of the Order of the Sacred Treasure 
from the Government of Japan. The Secretary presented status re- 
ports on personnel, equal opportunity and affirmative action, other 
major construction projects, legislation, litigation, the management 
of the Front Royal deer population, the sale of the Beatles' Rolls 
Royce, and television. 

32 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



The traditional Regents' dinner was held on Sunday evening, 
January 23, 1983, in the National Portrait Gallery and the National 
Museum of American Art. The Secretary presented to Charles 
Blitzer the Gold Medal for Exceptional Service. 

The Chancellor called the second meeting of the Board of Regents 
to order on May 9, 1983. The Executive Committee, serving as the 
search committee for the new Regent from the District of Colum- 
bia, recommended Mrs. Jeannine Smith Clark in view of her long 
association with the Smithsonian as a volunteer and her past chair- 
manship of the Women's Committee. The Regents agreed to ask 
their Congressional members to introduce and support legislation 
to appoint her for the statutory term of six years. John Paul Austin 
resigned as a Regent for reasons of health and the Regents voted 
to confer the title of Regent Emeritus on him. The Chancellor 
asked the Executive Committee to serve as a search committee to 
identify potential Regents to fill the vacancy on the Board. 

In an executive session the Secretary thanked the Regents for 
their past support and outlined his aspirations for completing 
Quadrangle fundraising, launching a Quadrangle-related endow- 
ment drive, and guiding the early programming for the Quad- 
rangle. The Regents were most appreciative of the Secretary's con- 
cern for the future of the Institution and the Quadrangle in par- 
ticular, and they expressed boundless gratitude for his accomplish- 
ments. To ensure an orderly transition, the Regents asked the Sec- 
retary to retain full Secretarial authority until his seventy-first 
birthday in September 1984, and it was agreed that the Regents 
would immediately form a Search Committee. 

The Audit and Review Committee reported that on February 24, 
1983, it discussed the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, the 
development of the Office of Information Resource Management, 
and Coopers and Lybrand's first consolidated audit of the Institu- 
tion's appropriated and trust funds for fiscal year 1982. 

The Treasurer reported on the status of the fiscal year 1983 trust 
and appropriated funds and on the fiscal year 1984 appropriation 
hearings in the House and Senate. The Investment Policy Com- 
mittee reported that on April 27, 1983, it reviewed investment per- 
formance and strategy with the Institution's three investment man- 
agers, noting that the endowment funds have continued to out- 
perform the market averages. The Regents approved the total re- 

Statement by the Secretary / 33 



turn income payout in fiscal year 1984 as recommended by the 
committee and thanked Mr. Burden for his extraordinary guidance 
in managing the Institution's endowment funds. 

The Secretary reported on utiHty relocations in the Quadrangle, 
final design details, and the schedule for opening bids on May 17 
and for a ground-breaking ceremony on June 21. After reviewing 
present commitments to the Quadrangle, he noted that the cor- 
porate campaign has begun with the help of members of the Na- 
tional Board of the Smithsonian Associates. Mr. Hadley Griffin, 
Chairman of the National Board, discussed the fund-raising activi- 
ties and praised the Secretary's effectiveness in describing the 
urgent need for the Quadrangle. The Secretary reported on his 
visits to foreign nations for the cultivation of Quadrangle support 
and announced that the firm of Brakeley, John Price Jones Inc., 
will assist in raising funds for Quadrangle endowment and pro- 
gram components. In recognition of Mrs. Enid A. Haupt's out- 
standing generosity and interest in the design and implementation 
of the garden, the Board named the garden area in her honor. 

The Secretary described the revised standards of conduct for 
Smithsonian employees, which he had recently approved, and the 
Regents endorsed the Secretary's actions. The Secretary reported 
that at the Regents' request the staff updated an earlier study on 
museum visitation and parking needs. Estimating that visitors will 
exceed 40 million annually by the year 2000, the staff observed 
the need for long-range planning and noted that a Smithsonian 
Transportation Coordinator has been appointed to develop with 
other agencies a variety of low-capital-cost solutions. The once- 
proposed construction of an underground Mall garage would not 
be self-liquidating under current estimates. 

The Secretary discussed a AXariety of status reports, including the 
merger of the Radiation Biolog^y Laboratory and the Chesapeake 
Bay Center for Environmental Studies, personnel and reorganiza- 
tion. Museum Support Center and inventory of collections, other 
major construction projects, space planning, legislation, litigation, 
management of the Front Royal deer population, the Hirshhorn 
bequest, and television. 

The traditional Regents' Dinner was held in the National Air 
and Space Museum on May 8. The Chancellor presented Langley 
Medals to H. Ross Perot, Jr., and Jay Coburn. 

34 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



The Chancellor opened the third meeting of the year on Sep- 
tember 19, 1983, by welcoming the new Regents, Senator James R. 
Sasser and Mrs. Clark. The Regents then mourned the sudden 
death of Senator Jackson, adopting a formal resolution in his 
memory. As recommended by the Executive Committee, the 
Regents nominated Mr. Samuel C. Johnson of Racine, Wisconsin, 
as a Regent, noting his interest in the Institution through his 
membership on the National Board of Smithsonian Associates and 
his support of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. 

The Regents' Search Committee reported on its meetings and the 
steps taken to solicit nominations and address issues regarding 
criteria and attributes for the new Secretary. It was noted that the 
heartwarming and encouraging response to the committee's request 
for nominations and thoughts about the position has indeed re- 
flected the work of the Secretary and the importance of the Insti- 
tution in Washington and throughout the nation. 

The Audit and Review Committee had met on May 19, 1983, 
and discussed the Institution's major television project, "Smith- 
sonian World," other television and film projects, improvements in 
the review of employees' annual statements of financial interests, 
and Coopers and Lybrand's 1982 Report to Management. 

The Treasurer reported that the Institution received a supple- 
mental appropriation for increased pay costs in fiscal year 1983. 
He also reported on the status of the Institution's fiscal year 1984 
budget request, noting the effects of House and Senate recommen- 
dations. He projected that net income from Unrestricted General 
Trust Funds in fiscal year 1984 would decline slightly from the 
fiscal year 1983 level, but remain ahead of earher estimates. As in 
prior years, administration costs and program growth have been 
held to a minimum and the Regents approved the trust fund bud- 
get for fiscal year 1984. The Regents also approved a request of 
$207 million in federal appropriations for submission to the Office 
of Management and Budget for fiscal year 1985, including in- 
creases for salaries and expenses, for renovation and improvement 
of the Institution's facilities, for planning costs associated with 
the repair and renovation of the General Post Office Building, and 
for excess foreign currencies. 

Mr. Jameson highlighted the draft of the Five- Year Prospectus 
for fiscal years 1985-1989. In discussion it was suggested that 

Statement by the Secretary / 35 



more pan-Institutional emphasis should be given to studies of the 
national collections, and the Regents were encouraged to make 
additional suggestions. The draft will be revised to incorporate the 
Regents' suggestions and updated budget figures. 

After discussion of their policy on public and Congressional 
information, the Regents issued a press release announcing their 
intention to continue to meet in executive session. The statement 
reviewed the Regents' prior discussions, emphasizing the Regents' 
conviction that their actions should be communicated openly and 
widely to the Congress, press, and public. Toward that end a rep- 
resentative of the Regents will appear with the staff at the post- 
meeting briefing, an agenda for the meeting will be distributed 
to the press at that time, and a summary of the proceedings will 
be routinely supplied to the press and interested Congressional 
committees as soon as practicable after each meeting. This policy 
will be reviewed periodically by the Regents. 

The Secretary noted that subsequent to the bids opened on 
May 17 the General Services Administration awarded a Quad- 
rangle construction contract to the Blake Construction Company. 
He recited the administrative responsibilities which will be shared 
by the GSA, the architects, and Smithsonian staff, and reported 
that the contractors are expected to complete the building by 
January 20, 1986. A possible Congressional rescission from the 
construction appropriation was discussed, and it was noted that the 
full appropriation will almost certainly be required in future years 
for completion of all construction, finishing, and furnishing. 

The Secretary described recent actions in the Senate and House 
Public Works Committees which would direct the GSA to transfer 
the General Post Office Building to the Smithsonian without reim- 
bursement, contingent upon GSA locating suitable space for the 
current occupants, the International Trade Commission. He pointed 
out that the building would be used for expanded public activities 
in the National Museum of American Art, the National Portrait 
Gallery, and the Archives of American Art. The Regents recorded 
their support in principle for efforts made in the Congress. 

The Secretary reported that he has decided to restore all museum 
restaurant operations to concession. He added that preliminary 
plans have been conceived for a ground-floor addition on the east 
terrace of the National Air and Space Museum Building for an 
enlarged public restaurant in lieu of the current facility which, due 

36 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



to its location and size, has proven inadequate for the large num- 
bers of visitors to the museum. Preliminary reviews have indicated 
that all construction costs will be recovered from revenues to the 
concessionaire. The Regents approved the preliminary plans in 
principle and authorized the Secretary to conduct further planning. 

The Regents received a report indicating that it will be impera- 
tive to relocate the Garber facility near an active, major airfield 
with sufficient space for anticipated requirements. After four years 
of study, Dulles Airport had emerged as the only local facility to 
meet all necessary criteria. The Institution has received informal 
indications of support from the Federal Aviation Administration, 
state and county authorities, local citizens, and the aviation com- 
munity. The Regents expressed confidence in the project. 

As proposed by Mr. Hadley Griffin, Chairman of the National 
Board of Smithsonian Associates, the Regents established the 
Order of James Smithson to recognize and encourage extraordi- 
narily important contributions to the work of the Smithsonian. 
The Secretary and the Regents also discussed status reports on 
personnel, the Museum Support Center and collections manage- 
ment, other major construction projects, legislation, litigation, the 
International Exchange Service, and television and film. The Secre- 
tary reported that the Institution has been invited to send an 
exhibition to the August 1984 Edinburgh Festival. Regents, Re- 
gents Emeritus, and members of the National Board of Smithsonian 
Associates might constitute an official delegation to accompany the 
exhibition. By coincidence, this v/ould mark the 200th anniversary 
of a tour of the Highlands taken by James Smithson, William 
Thornton, and a French abbe tutor at the suggestion of Benjamin 
Franklin. In response to the Regents' enthusiasm, the Secretary 
agreed to explore the matter and report further at the next meeting. 

The traditional Regents' Dinner was held in the Arts and Indus- 
tries Building on Sunday evening, September 18, 1983. The Chan- 
cellor welcomed the new Regents, Senator Sasser and Mrs. Clark, 
and Mr. Ripley presented to the Treasurer, Christian C. Hohen- 
lohe, on his leaving the Institution, the Gold Medal for Excep- 
tional Service. In his acceptance remarks, Mr. Hohenlohe enumer- 
ated the vast changes that had occurred in the income coming into 
the Institution, in the increase in the endowments by more than 
six-fold, and in the relative improved proportions of federal to 
trust fund support of the total budget in the past nineteen years. 

Statement by the Secretary / 37 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION OPERATING FUNDS 

Fiscal Years 1965, 1975, 1980, 1982, 1983 

(In $l,OO0,O0O's) 



FUNDS PROVIDED 



Auxiliary 

and 

Bureau 

Activities 

Expenses 



Unrestricted 



Net 
— Trust 
Funds 



Nonappropriated 
Trust Funds 
(Gross Revenues) 



Federal Grants 
and Contracts 



. Federal 
Appropriations 



1965 1975 1980 1982 1983 



FUNDS APPLIED 



~^ 



To Plant and Endowment 



Auxiliary and Bureau Activities Expenses 



Administration and Facilities Services 



ii 



Special Programs 
Museum Programs 
Public Service 



History and Art 



1965 1975 1980 1982 1983 



Smithsonian Institution • ip8^ 
FINANCIAL REPORT 



CHRISTIAN C. HOHENLOHE, TREASURER 



Summary: The Smithsonian continued to enjoy broad-based finan- 
cial stability in fiscal year 1983, with increased resources from a 
variety of sources sufficient for ongoing activities as well as for 
certain program enhancements. Generous support was received 
both from the Administration and the Congress as well as from 
the Institution's extended constituency of donors. Associates, and 
visitors. The bar chart on the facing page illustrates the sources 
and application of the Institution's operating funds in fiscal year 
1983 and previous years. As in the past, the wide range of Smith- 
sonian activities in research and exhibits, in public education and 
outreach, was supported by this mix of funding from federal ap- 
propriations, from gifts and investments, and from earned reve- 
nues. The accomplishments of the Institution during the year and 
its progress toward future goals are described elsewhere in this 
volume; what should be noted here is the gratitude of the Institu- 
tion to those whose financial assistance has made these activities 
possible. 

Secretary Ripley's retirement in September 1984 will mark the 
completion of some twenty years of service. These two decades 
represent a period of remarkable growth for the Institution, par- 
ticularly as measured by the increase of its financial resources. To 
give appropriate perspective on current operations, the bar chart 
begins with the budget of the Institution in fiscal year 1965, the 
first full year of Secretary Ripley's incumbency. From operating 
revenues of some $30 million in fiscal year 1965, the budget has 
risen nine-fold to $278 million this past year. While much of the 
growth, particularly in very recent years, has been inflationary, 

39 



the greater part has resulted from new programs and from expan- 
sion of existing activities. Major museum faciUties, and the appro- 
priations to conduct their programs, have been acquired or built, 
including the National Air and Space Museum, the Hirshhorn 
Museum and Sculpture Garden, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the 
National Museum of African Art, the Renwick Gallery, and the 
Museum Support Center. 

Of prime importance in increasing nonappropriated trust funds 
has been the creation of the Associate programs and the Smith- 
sonian magazine, as well as the development of other revenue- 
generating auxiliary activities. With remarkable consistency, these 
years have brought both program growth and financial stability. 
The balance of appropriated and nonappropriated funds which has 
been achieved by the Secretary provides both strength and flexi- 
bility in meeting new challenges to the Institution, and the main- 
tenance of this broad base will be critical in the years ahead. 

Total federal appropriations to the Institution were $195,756,000 
in fiscal year 1983, including $147,256,000 for operations. In the 
continuing context of federal budget restraint, this represented a 
high degree of backing from the Congress and the Executive 
Branch for the Smithsonian's work. The operating appropriation 
provides the basis for most of the Institution's continuing programs 
in research, exhibits, and collections management, together with 
the necessary supporting services; funds were made available to 
carry on these programs, to cover inflationary increases, and to 
advance certain high priorities, such as the initial movement of 
collections to the Museum Support Center and the upgrading of 
security equipment. Following on a planning appropriation the 
prior year, Congress provided construction funds of $36.5 million 
for the Quadrangle, the Center for African, Near Eastern, and 
Asian Cultures, which will be financed on a matching basis with 
nonappropriated funds. With this federal commitment toward the 
project, and with substantial progress toward securing the non- 
federal funds, construction on the project was begun. 

While the federal appropriation provides the essential base sup- 
port of the Institution, nonappropriated trust funds enrich our 
programs and encourage their outreach to greater segments of the 
public. These revenues, largely from the Associate programs and 
other auxiliary activities, increased handsomely over last year, 

40 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Table 1. Financial Summary 
(In $l,OOOs) 



FY 1981 FY 1982 FY 1983 



INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS 
FUNDS PROVIDED: 

Federal Appropriations — Salaries & Expense? $122,478 $131,170 $147,256 

Federal Agency Grants & Contracts 14,172 13,217 13,125 

Nonappropriated Trust Funds : 

For Restricted Purposes 6,378 6,821 9,162 

For Unrestricted & Special Purposes: 

Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues — Gross . . . 88,381 

Less Related Expenses (75,924) 



Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Net Revenue 12,457 

Investment, Gift, & Other Income 4,887 

Total Net Unrestricted & Special Purpose Revenue 17,344 

Total Nonappropriated Trust Funds* — Gross 99,646 

—Net 23,722 

Total Operating Funds Provided — Gross 236,296 

—Net $160,372 

FUNDS APPLIED: 

Science $ 62,703 

Less SAO Overhead Recovery (2,470) 

History & Art 25,614 

Public Service 3,421 

Museum Programs 8,084 

Special Programs 7,284 

Associates & Business Management 312 

Administration — Federal** 8,782 

— Nonappropriated Trust Funds 5,740 

Less Smithsonian Overhead Recovery (5,014) 

Facilities Services 36,501 

Total Operating Funds Applied 150,957 

Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds) 

Unrestricted Funds — To Plant 2,550 

— To Endowment 2,550 

Restricted Funds — To Endowment 108 

Total Operating Funds Applied & Transferred Out .... $156,165 

CHANGES IN NONAPPROPRIATED 

TRUST FUND BALANCES: 
Restricted Purpose (Incl. Fed. Agency Gr. & Contracts) $ 1,276 

Unrestricted — General Purpose 42 

— Special Purpose 2,704 

Total $ 4,022 

YEAR-END BALANCES— 

NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS: 

Restricted Purpose $ 5,951 

Unrestricted — General Purpose 5,043 

— Special Purpose 12,599 

Total $ 23,593 

OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS 

Special Foreign Currency Program $ 3,650 

Construction ' 15,829 

Total Federal Appropriations (Incl. S&E above) $141,957 



97,350 


104,129 


(88,596) 


(89,397) 


8,754 


14,732 


4,808 


4,302 


13,562 


19,034 


108,979 


117,593 


20,383 


28,196 


253,366 


277,974 


$164,770 


$188,577 


$ 64,837 


$ 68,895 


(2,487) 


(2,264) 


26,762 


30,979 


3,782 


2,843 


8,539 


9,702 


9,533 


13,342 


543 


1,057 


9,719 


11,032 


5,733 


7,226 


(5,338) 


(6,331) 


39,327 


43,653 


160,950 


180,134 


1,064 


2,069 


2,259 


3,084 


318 


637 


$164,591*' 


" $185,924 


$ (45) 


$ 1,765 


5 


28 


404 


860 


$ 364 


$ 2,653 


$ 5,906 


$ 7,671 


5,048 


5,076 


13,003 


13,863 


$ 23,957 


$ 26,610 


$ 4,320 


$ 2,000 


9,744 


46,500 


$145,234 


$195,756 



•Figures do not include gifts and other income directly to Plant and Endowment Funds: FY 1981— 
$2,696,000; FY 1982-$2,197,000; FY 1983-$15,048,000. 
**Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1981— $64,000; FY 1982— $124,000; FY 1983- 
$62,000. 
***Includes $185,000 available for FDR Centennial carried forward from FY 1981. 



indicating broad approval of the Institution's efforts and ensuring 
their continuation. Gifts and grants from individuals, foundations, 
corporations, and Associates for operating projects as well as the 
Quadrangle also grew to a new level. The net revenues from non- 
appropriated sources permitted increased support to some activi- 
ties, such as the Fellowship Program, as well as a greater transfer 
of funds to endowment, pursuant to the high priority of the 
Board of Regents on developing these permanent funds. In this 
regard, the substantial investment return of the Institution's en- 
dowment funds further increased security for the future. 



Operating Funds — Sources and Application 

The overall operating budget of the Smithsonian grew by 10 per- 
cent in the past year, from $253,366,000 in fiscal year 1982 to 
$277,974,000 in fiscal year 1983, As shown in Table 1, these oper- 
ating revenues were derived 53 percent from federal appropria- 
tions, 42 percent from nonappropriated sources, and 5 percent 
from federal agency grants and contracts. 

Net operating funds, exclusive of the expenses of the non- 
appropriated auxiliary and bureau activities, grew by $23,807,000, 
and were derived 7S percent from federal appropriations, 15 per- 
cent from nonappropriated sources, and 7 percent from federal 
agency grants and contracts. Table 2 outlines the application of 
these funds by all Smithsonian bureaux, with supporting detail in 
the following tables. 

VEDERAL APPROPRIATION 

Federal appropriations represent the largest single source of funds 
available to the Institution and provide the core support for the 
Institution's programs in basic research, care, and exhibition of 
the National Collections, education and publication programs, as 
well as the maintenance and protection of the buildings. 

In fiscal year 1983, federal support for the Institution's operating 
programs totaled $147,256,000, an increase of $16 million, or 12 
percent, over the previous year. Inflationary costs in utilities, sal- 
aries, communications and other costs accounted for over $9 million 
of this increase; the balance was applied to a variety of require- 

42 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



ments primarily related to strengthening the care and security of 
the collections and buildings. Some $2.2 million was devoted to 
moving and operating costs associated with the occupancy of the 
recently completed Museum Support Center. An additional $2.5 
million was provided for the replacement of obsolete security 
equipment, for the conversion of volatile nitrate photographic 
negatives to archival-quality film, and for contractual services 
required for the proper maintenance of Smithsonian facilities. 
Other increases included support for improvements to the multiple 
mirror telescope at the Whipple Observatory in Arizona, for 
phased automation of library services, and for production of a film 
commemorating the signing of the Treaty of Paris. At the initiation 
of Congress, an amount of $1 million was also received for award 
to the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in support 
of the activities of the National Symphony Orchestra as the resi- 
dent orchestra of the Center. 



FEDERAL AGENCY GRANTS AND CONTRACTS 

Grants and contracts from federal agencies, a significant source of 
support for the Institution's research activities, totaled $13,125,000 
in fiscal year 1983, a slight decline from the previous year. As in 
past years, the majority of these funds were provided by the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) for re- 
search programs at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. 
Important projects underway in fiscal year 1983 included the de- 
velopment of a high-resolution Imager for the Roentgen Satellite, 
study of the solar corona and its effects on Earth, a program to 
analyze data provided by the Viking Satellite, and the satellite 
tracking program. 

In addition to support received from NASA, $3.5 million was 
received from other government agencies, primarily the Depart- 
ment of Defense and the National Science Foundation. Examples 
of the diverse programs supported by grant and contract funds 
include development of guidelines for the conservation and man- 
agement of wild primates, the collection of biological specimens 
from the outer continental shelf, support for the 1983 Festival of 
American Folklife, and a study to improve student attitudes toward 
science-related careers. 

financial Report / 43 



Table 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds 
Year Ended September 30, 1983 

(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments) 

(In $l,OOOs) 





Federal 
funds 




Nonfederal Funds 






Total 
non- 
federal 
funds 


Unrestricted 


Restricted 


Funds 


Aux- 
iliary 
activi- 
General ties 


Spe- 
cial 
pur- 
pose 


Grants 
and 
con- 
General tracts 


FUND BALANCES— 10/1/82 
FUNDS PROVIDED 

Federal Appropriations 

Investment Income 

Grants and Contracts 

Gifts 

Sales and Revenue 


$ — 
147,256 


$ 23,957 $ 5,048 $ — 

6,146 2,489 — 

13,125 — — 

7,769 24 2,171 

101,958 — 98,826 

1,720 46 — 


$13,003 

686 

155 

3,132 

902 


$ 5,719 $ 187 

2,971 — 

— 13,125 

5,419 — 


Other 


772 — 



Total Provided . 
Total Available 
FUNDS APPLIED 



147,256 130,718 2,559 100,997 4,875 9,162 13,125 



$147,256 $154,675 $ 7,607 $100,997 $17,878 $14,881 $13,312 



Science: 
















Assistant Secretary 


. $ 372 $ 


381 $ 


62 $ 


— 


$ 31 


$ 101 


$ 187 


Natl. Mus. of Nat. History/ 
















Museum of Man 


18,148 


3,259 


306 





613 


1,362 


978 


Astrophysical Observatory . . 


6,649 


13,928 


2,268 


— 


609 


155 


10,896 


Less Overhead Recovery . . 


— 


(2,264) 


(2,264) 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Tropical Research Institute . . 


3,155 


362 


71 


— 


91 


181 


19 


Environmental Rsch. Center . 


3,170 


626 


73 


— 


133 


39 


381 


Natl. Air & Space Museum . . 


7,184 


2,648 


5 


— 


2,408 


122 


113 


Natl. Zoological Park 


10,042 
48,720 


377 


7 


— 


112 
3,997 


82 
2,042 


176 


Total Science 


19,317 


528 


— 


12,750 






History and Art: 






Assistant Secretary 


374 


102 


97 


— 


5 


— 


— 


Natl. Mus. of Am. History . . 


9,530 


920 


90 


— 


355 


472 


3 


Natl. Mus. of American Art . 


4,186 


795 


26 


— 


667 


104 


(2) 


Natl. Portrait Gallery 


3,085 


327 


45 


— 


118 


164 


— 


Hirshhorn Museum 


2,705 


140 


9 


— 


62 


69 


— 


Center for Asian Art 


913 


1,423 


52 


— 


52 


1,319 


— 


Archives of American Art . . . 


679 


768 


1 


— 


1 


766 


— 


Cooper-Hewitt Museum .... 


805 


2,275 


527 


— 


1,151 


549 


48 


Natl. Mus. of African Art . . . 


934 


1,053 


206 


— 


888 


(41) 


— 


Anacostia Museum 


700 


34 


29 


— 


3 


2 


— 



Total History and Art . 23,911 7,837 1,082 



— 3,302 3,404 



49 



Table 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds — continued 

Year Ended September 30, 1983 
(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments) 

(In $l,OOOs) 









Nonfederal 


Funds 








Total 


Unrestricted 




Restricted 






Aux- 


Spe- 




Grants 






non- 




iliary 


cial 




and 




Federal 


federal 




activi- 


pur- 




con- 


Funds 


funds 


funds General 


ties 


pose G( 


zneral 


tracts 


Public Service: 
















Assistant Secretary 


217 


37 


37 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Reception Center 


77 


484 


467 


— 


17 


— 


— 


Telecommunications 


362 


700 


330 


— 


195 


175 


— 


Smithsonian Press 


970 
1,626 


9,544 
10,765 


— 


9,529 
9,529 


— 


5 


10 


Total Public Service . . . 


834 


212 


180 


10 


Museum Programs: 
















Assistant Secretary 


808 


281 


6 


— 


93 


181 


1 




87 











— 


— 


— 


Conserv. Analytical Laboratory 


892 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Libraries 


3,692 


256 


211 


— 


41 


4 


— 


Exhibits 


1,367 


(14) 


— 


— 


(14) 


— 


— 


Traveling Exhib. Service 


313 


2,139 


— 


1,375 


71 


689 


4 




442 
777 


63 
2,725 


62 





1 


— 


— 


National Museum Act 


— 


Total Museum Programs 


8,378 


279 


1,375 


192 


874 


5 


Special Programs : 
















Am. Studies & Folklife Pgm. . 


603 


860 


448 


— 


80 


84 


248 


Int. Environ. Science Pgm. . . . 


629 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Academic & Educational Pgm. 


634 


1,168 


159 


— 


891 


118 


— 


Collections Mgt. /Inventory . . . 


789 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Major Exhibition Program .... 


825 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Museum Support Center 


6,758 


79 


— 


— 


79 


— 


— 


JFK Center Grant 


1,000 
11,238 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Total Special Programs . 


2,107 
53,655 


607 
1,039 


52,589 


1,050 
23 


202 


248 


Associate Programs 


4 


— 


Business Management 


— 


23,595 


— 


23,595 


— 


— 


— 


Administration 


10,970 


7,303 


6,830 


77 


314 


82 


— 


Less Overhead Recovery . . . 


— 


(6,331) 


(6,331) 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Facilities Services 


42,351 


1,302 


1,264 


— 


3 


35 


— 


Transfers Out /(In): 
















Treasury 


62* 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Coll. Acq., Schol. St., Outreach 


— 


— 


2,645 


— 


(2,645) 


— 


— 


Net Auxiliary Activities 


— 


— 


(13,346) 


13,346 


— 


— 


— 


Other Designated Purposes . . . 


— 


— 


2,074 


486 


(2,560) 


— 


— 


Plant 


— 


2,069 


2,005 


— 


64 


— 


— 


Endowment 


— 


3,721 

5,790 

$128,065 


3,021 

(3,601) 

$ 2,531 : 

$ 5,076 1 


— 


63 


637 
637 


— 




62 


13,832 
$100,997 


(5,078) 
$ 4,015 $ 
$13,863 $ 


— 


Total Funds Applied . . . 


$147,256 


7,460 $13,062 


FUND BALANCES 9/30/83 . . 


$ — 


$ 26,610 


$ — 


7,421 


$ 250 



'Unobligated funds returned to Treasury. 



Table 3. Grants and Contracts — Expenditures 
(In $l,OOOs) 

Federal Agencies FY 1981 FY 1982 FY 1983 

Department of Commerce $ 210 $ 174 $ (7) 

Department of Defense 703 1,001 1,299 

Department of Energy 407 448 358 

Department of Health and Human Services 283 325 280 

Department of Interior 244 268 238 

National Aeronautics and Space Administration* 10,663 9,303 9,551 

National Science Foundation** 784 1,079 928 

Other 574 837 415 

Total $13,868 $13,435 $13,062 



♦Includes $813,000 (FY 1981), $264,000 (FY 1982), and $197,000 (FY 1983) in subcon- 
tracts from other organizations receiving prime contract funding from NASA. 
**Includes $208,000 (FY 1981), $230,000 (FY 1982), and $196,000 (FY 1983) in NSF sub- 
contracts from the Chesapeake Research Consortium. 



NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS 

Nonappropriated trust fund income is derived from gifts and 
grants, endowment and current fund investments, and revenue- 
producing activities. Gross revenues from these sources totaled 
$117,593,000 in fiscal year 1983, an increase of 8 percent over the 
previous year. After excluding costs of the auxiliary and bureau 
activities which are necessary to generate the sales revenues, the 
net income available for program purposes increased over the prior 
year by $7,813,000, to a total of $28,196,000. Application of these 
funds by bureau is reflected in Table 2. 

Restricted fund revenues, available only for specified purposes, 
totaled $9,162,000 for the year, a substantial increase of $2,341,000 
over fiscal year 1982. More than $5.4 million of this income was 
received from gifts and grants, $3 million from endowment invest- 
ment income and interest earned on restricted current fund bal- 
ances, and $800,000 from other sources such as fundraising activi- 
ties of the Archives of American Art and Cooper-Hewitt Museum 
and the sales desk activities at the Freer Gallery of Art. As dis- 
played in Table 4, these revenues provided major operating support 
for the Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port (now adminis- 
tered by the National Museum of Natural History), the Freer 

46 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Table 4. Restricted Operating Trust Funds * 

Fiscal Years 1981-1983 

(In $l,OOOs) 



Invest- 
Item ment Gifts 

FY 1981— Total $2,591 $2,978 

FY 1982— Total $2,886 $3,154 

FY 1983: 

National Museum of 

Natural History $1,005 $ 381 

Astrophysical Observatory 56 112 
Tropical Research 

Institute 60 322 

National Air & Space 

Museum 57 80 

National Zoological Park. 15 114 

Other Science 172 103 

National Museum of 

American History 60 474 

National Museum of 

American Art 66 111 

National Portrait Gallery . 19 139 

Hirshhorn Museum 70 61 

Freer Gallery of Art 1,027 133 

Archives of American Art 37 767 

Cooper-Hewitt Museum . . 81 574 
Traveling Exhibition 

Service 55 1,381 

Office of Museum 

Programs 33 4 

All Other 158 663 

Total FY 1983 $2,971 $5,419 











Net 


Fund 










in- 


bal- 




Total 




Trans- 


crease 


ance 


Miscel- 


rev- 


Deduc- 


fers in 


(de- 


end of 


laneous 


enue 


tions 


(out) 


crease) 


year 



$ 


809 


$6,378 


$5,295 


$ (111) 


$ 


972 


$5,546 


$ 


781 


$6,821 


$6,571 


$ (77) 


$ 


173 


$5,719 



5 $1,391 $1,362 
— 168 155 



(206) $ (177) $ 734 
5 18 (7) 



— 382 



181 



203 



260 



— 


137 


122 


(11) 


4 


115 


— 


129 


82 


— 


47 


105 


— 


275 


140 


(103) 


32 


562 


— 


534 


472 


(2) 


60 


552 


10 


187 


104 





83 


409 


— 


158 


164 


— 


(6) 


166 


— 


131 


69 


— 


62 


666 


458 


1,618 


1,319 


— 


299 


1,234 


179 


983 


766 


— 


217 


315 


119 


774 


549 


3 


228 


578 


— 


1,436 


689 


— 


747 


922 


— 


37 


150 


— 


(113) 


233 


1 


822 


499 


(325) 
$ (637) 


(2) 
$1,702 


577 


$ 772 


$9,162 


$6,823 


$7,421 



*Does not include Federal Agency Grants and Contracts. 



Gallery of Art, which has been joined with the Sackler Gallery to 
form the Center for Asian Art, as well as for a wide range of 
other educational and exhibition programs throughout the Institu- 
tion. Contributing to the growth in restricted revenues during the 
past year was the high level of gifts and grants received for the 



Financial Report / 47 



Table 5. Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds 

Fiscal Years 1981-1983 

(In $l,OOOs) 

Revenue Deductions 

Gifts Bu- Net Fund 

Bu- and Pro- reau in- bal- 

In- reau other Total Trans- gram activ- crease ance 

vest- activi- rev- rev- fers in ex- ity ex- (de- end of 

Item ment ties enue enue (out) pense pense crease) year 

FY 1981 $589 $3,333 $1,105 $5,027 $4,766 $4,844 $2,245 $2,704 $12,599 

FY 1982 $719 $2,925 $1,067 $4,711 $2,784 $4,908 $2,183 $ 404 $13,003 

FY 1983: 

National Museum of 

Natural History $ 63 $ 2 $ 46 $ 111 $ 717 $ 605 $ 8 $ 215 

Astrophysical 

Observatory — 155 62 217 406 470 139 14 

Tropical Research 

Institute 12 4 1 17 172 165 (74) 98 

National Air and Space 

Museum 309 1,711 41 2,061 (93) 1,097 1,311 (440) 

Environmental Research 

Center* 7 26 9 42 96 111 22 5 139 

National Zoological Park 184 — 306 490 39 112 — 417 2,035 

National Museum of 

American History .... 27 2 112 141 349 354 1 135 438 

National Museum of 

American Art 7 5 63 75 539 666 1 (53) 117 

National Portrait Gallery 6 9 45 60 115 113 5 57 127 

Hirshhorn Museum 15 — 16 31 72 62 — 41 178 

Cooper-Hewitt Museum . 9 1,099 88 1,196 40 391 760 85 4 

National Museum of 

African Art — 4 6 10 856 886 2 (22) 121 

Office of Telecommunica- 
tions — 29 — 29 109 176 19 (57) 452 

Liability Reserves — — — — — 41 — (41) 3,289 

Unallocated Coll. Acq., 

Schol. Studies, and 

Outreach — — — — 364 — — 364 437 

Fellowships — — — — 1,077 863 — 214 841 

Museum Support Center 

Equipment — — — — — 79 — (79) 670 

All Other 47 86 262 395 220 670 38 (93) 1,027 

Total FY 1983 $686 $3,132 $1,057 $4,875 $5,078 $6,861 $2,232 $ 860 $13,863 

♦Effective in FY 1983, the Chesapealce Bay Center for Environmental Studies was merged with the Radiation 
Biology Laboratory to form the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center. 



48 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



collections and research programs of the Archives of American Art 
and for the major exhibitions. The Precious Legacy: Judaic Trea- 
sures from the Czechoslovak State Collections, a traveling exhibi- 
tion organized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition 
Service, and Faberge: Jeweler to Royalty, developed by the Cooper- 
Hewitt Museum. In addition, a five-year grant of $1,029,000 was 
awarded to the Tropical Research Institute by the W. Alton Jones 
Foundation, Inc., in support of a major new program of studies on 
the rational exploitation of the tropics. 

Support to Unrestricted Special Purpose funds totaled $4,875,000 
in fiscal year 1983, consisting of revenues generated by bureau 
activities such as the film theater and spacearium at the National 
Air and Space Museum and the membership program and admis- 
sions fees at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum; investment income 
earned on unexpended fund balances and endowments; and miscel- 
laneous income for other designated purposes such as Zoo parking 
receipts which are earmarked for construction of a future parking 
facihty. Transfers into this fund category included allocations of 
$2.6 million for the Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, 
and Educational Outreach programs, $1.4 million for fellowship 
awards, $500,000 for revenue sharing with bureaux housing cen- 
trally-run museum shop and concession activities, and $900,000 
for special exhibitions, acquisitions, research, and other activities. 
Gifts of otherwise unrestricted bequests received during the year 
were transferred to endowment as specified by the Bylaws of the 
Regents, and a portion of income produced by NASM theaters was 
made available for unrestricted purposes of the Institution. 

Unrestricted General Purpose funds, available for general Insti- 
tutional purposes, are derived primarily from net revenues of the 
auxiliary activities and investment income. As displayed in Table 6, 
net general unrestricted funds, after deduction of auxiliary activi- 
ties' expenses, totaled $16,391,000 in fiscal year 1983, an increase 
of $5,357,000 over the prior year. This growth is attributable to 
increased sales income by the auxiliary activities and to the effec- 
tive management and control of related expenses. Some $9.9 
million of the net income produced by the auxiliary activities was 
from the Associate programs, largely from the Smithsonian maga- 
zine. The Associate programs were also responsible for generating 
more than $1.4 million as gifts from Associate members for con- 

Financial Report / 49 



Table 6. Unrestricted Trust Funds — General and Auxiliary Activities 

Fiscal Years 1981-1983 

(In $l,OOOs) 

Item FY 1981 FY 1982 FY 1983 

FUNDS PROVIDED 

General Income: 

Investments $ 3,123 $ 2,921 $ 2,489 

Gifts 15 18 24 

Miscellaneous 55 83 46 

Total General Income 3,193 3,022 2,559 

Auxiliary Activities Income (Net) : 

Associates* 8,691 8,126 9,864 

Business Management: 

— Museum Shops and Mail Order 631 856 2,710 

— Concessions, Parking and Food Services . . 1,978 1,513 1,670 

—Other (251) (322) (300) 

Performing Arts* (186) (2,544) — 

Smithsonian Press* 767 670 232 

Traveling Exhibitions (226) (298) (363) 

Photo Services (35) 11 19 

Total Auxiliary Activities 11,369 8,012 13,832 

Total Funds Provided (Net) 14,562 11,034 16,391 

EXPENDITURES AND TRANSFERS 

Administrative and Program Expense 12,141 12,505 14,727 

Less Administrative Recovery 7,484 7,825 8,595 

Net Expense 4,657 4,680 6,132 

Less Transfers: 

To Special Purpose for Program Purposes .... 4,816 3,328 5,205 

To Plant Funds 2,526 1,000 2,005 

To Endowment Funds 2,521 2,021 3,021 

NET ADDITION TO FUND BALANCE 42 5 28 

ENDING FUND BALANCE $ 5,043 $ 5,048 $ 5,076 



*Effective FY 1983, the Division of Performing Arts recording program was trans- 
ferred to the Smithsonian Press and the performing arts activities for which tickets 
are sold to the public were transferred to the Resident Associate Program. 



struction of the Quadrangle, included as income to Plant Funds 
below. Net income from the Museum Shops and Mail Order cata- 
logues totaled $2.7 million, more than three times the amount for 
the previous year, enhanced by increased visitation to the museums. 

50 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Table 7. Auxiliary Activities Fiscal Years 1981 
(In $l,OOOs) 

Sales 

and Less 

other cost of Cross 

Activity revenue Gifts sales revenue 

FY 1981 $83,719 $ 1,329 $45,866 $39,182 

FY 1982 $92,668 $ 1,757 $56,166 $38,259 

FY 1983: ' 

Associates $60,282 $ 2,171 $39,926 $22,527 

Business Management: 

—Museum Shops* 22,213 — 12,534 9,679 

— Concessions/Parking/ 

Food Services 5,136 — 1,052 4,084 

—Other** 326 — — 326 

Smithsonian Press 9,761 — 3,483 6,278 

Traveling Exhibitions 1,012 — 520 492 

Photo Services 

(Administration) 96 — 12 84 

Total FY 1983 $98,826 $ 2,171 $57,527 $43,470 



-1983 



Net 



Ex- 
penses 



rev- 



enue 
(loss) 



$27,813 $11,369 



$30,247 


$ 8,012 


$12,663 


$ 9,864 


6,969 


2,710 


2,414 


1,670 


626 


(300) 


6,046 


232 


855 


(363) 


65 


19 


$29,638 


$13,832 



'Includes Museum Shops and Mail Order. 
**Includes Business Management Office and Belmont. 
***Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaux of $390,000 (FY 
1981); $380,000 (FY 1982); and $486,000 (FY 1983). 



These funds were used by the Institution to continue allotments 
for a variety of program and support activities, particularly the 
Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the National Museum of African Art, the 
Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center, the Office 
of Folklife Programs, and the Office of Telecommunications. Special 
funding was also provided for the exhibition The Heritage of Islam, 
presented in the Thomas Mellon Evans Special Exhibits Gallery, 
for fundraising for construction of the Quadrangle Center, for a 
marine sanctuary program, and for developmental costs of a new, 
integrated personnel/payroll system. 

As mentioned above, transfers were made to Special Purpose 
Funds for the Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, and Edu- 
cational Outreach programs (approved by the Board of Regents 
for a second five-year period), fellowship awards to pre- and post- 



Financial Report / 51 



doctoral fellows, and small research grants to Smithsonian pro- 
fessional staff. 

Reflecting the favorable results of the Institution's unrestricted 
funds, some $3 million was transferred to endowment, of which 
$2.5 million was added to unrestricted endowment funds and 
$500,000 was used, together with slightly over $200,000 of pro- 
ceeds from the sale of the Belmont Conference Center, to endow 
the James E. Webb Fellowship Program. Transfers to Plant Funds 
included $2 million for construction of the Quadrangle Center and 
$5,000 to complete construction of the East Garden. 



Special Foreign Currency Program 

An appropriation of foreign currencies equivalent to $2 million 
was received under the Special Foreign Currency Program in fiscal 
year 1983 to continue a program of grants to United States insti- 
tutions for field research and advanced professional training in 
areas related to Smithsonian interest and expertise. Accumulated 
from sales of surplus agricultural commodities under Public Law 
83-480, these currencies have been determined by the Treasury 
Department to be excess to the normal needs of the government. 
The application of these funds by country and discipline is con- 
tained in Table 8. 



Table 8. Special Foreign Currency Program 

Fiscal Year 1983 — Obligations 

(In $l,OOOs) 







System- 


Astro- 












atic and 


physics 


Mm- 


Grant 








environ- 


and 


seum 


admin- 






Archae- 


mental 


earth 


pro- 


istra- 




Country 


ology 


biology 


sciences 


grams 


tion 


Total 


India 


. . . $1,247 


$274 


$91 


$270 


$168* 


$2,050 


Pakistan 


82 


203 

$477 


$91 


5 
$275 


1 
$169 


291 








Total 


. . . $1,329 


$2,341 

















* Includes $62,000 for translation services in support of all programs. 

52 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Construction 

A total of $65,021,000 was provided in FY 1983 for construction 
and renovation projects at the Institution, of which $46.5 milHon 
was from federal appropriations and $18.5 million from nonappro- 
priated trust funds. 

The majority of this funding was for the construction of the 
Quadrangle Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures, 
the cost of which, estimated at $75 million, will be funded one-half 
from federal appropriations and one-half from nonappropriated 
sources. In recognition of the Institution's commitment to matching 
the cost of the Center's construction, an amount of $36.5 million 
was appropriated in fiscal year 1983. Complementing this display 
of federal support were gifts, transfers of unrestricted trust funds 
and earned interest totaling $16.6 million; this amount includes 
$7.6 million of firm pledges recorded when ground was broken on 
June 21, 1983. When added to amounts received in previous years, 
additional commitments from outside sources, future planned trans- 
fers from unrestricted funds, and anticipated revenues from the 
sale of real estate, over $36 million of nonappropriated funds has 
been raised to date. Particularly noteworthy among the gifts and 
pledges recorded this past year were $4 million from Arthur M. 
Sackler, $3 million from Mrs. Enid A. Haupt, $1 million from the 
Pew Memorial Trust, and $1.4 million given by over 35,000 
Smithsonian Associates in an impressive demonstration of broad 
support. 

Additional appropriations totaling $10 million were received for 
major repairs, renovations, and building improvements at existing 
Smithsonian facilities, including those of the National Zoological 
Park and other off-Mall locations. Projects essential to insuring 
the welfare of visitors and the preservation of the collections, 
including the maintenance of building exteriors, the installation of 
fire detection and suppression systems, and the repair and upgrad- 
ing of utility systems, continued as areas of highest priority. 

The sale of several Smithsonian properties was concluded in FY 
1983. The Belmont Conference Center was sold to the American 
Chemical Society and its surrounding land to the State of Maryland 
for a total of approximately $2 million, of which $1,750,000 was 
committed to construction of the Museum Support Center, and as 

Financial Report / 53 



Table 9. Construction and Plant Funds Fiscal Years 1981-1983 

(In $l,OOOs) 

Sources FY 1981 FY 1982 FY 1983 

FUNDS PROVIDED 

Federal Appropriations: 

National Zoological Park $ 3,290 $ 1,104 $ 1,550 

Restoration and Renovation of Buildings 7,539 7,680 8,450 

Museum Support Center 5,000 — — 

Quadrangle — 960 36,500 

Total Federal Appropriations 15,829 9,744 46,500 

Nonappropriated Trust Funds : 
Income — Gift and Other 

Special Exhibits Gallery 307 1 — 

Smithsonian Environmental Research 

Center — Gain on Sale — — 44 

Smithsonian Tropical Research 

Institute — Research Facilities — 

Erection of Jacksonville Bandstand — 

Cooper-Hewitt Museum 175 

American Art and Portrait Gallery Building — 

Quadrangle 2,115 

Smithsonian Institution Building South 

Entrance — 

Bequest of Real Estate — 

Belmont Conference Center — Gain on Sale . . — 

Horticulture Greenhouse 11 

Total Income 2,608 

Transfers from Current Funds : 

Chesapeake Bay Center 300 

Tropical Research Institute 26 

Museum Support Center 750 

National Museum of African Art 24 

Quadrangle 1,340 

East Garden 110 

Total Transfers 2,550 



— 


66 


— 


174 


31 


163 


183 


21 


1,650 


14,574 


64 


5 


225 


— 


— 


1,405' 


— 


— 


2,154 


16,452 



Total Funds Provided $20,987 



24 
1,040 


24 

2,040 

5 


1,064 


2,069 


$12,962 


$65,021 



*TotaI proceeds realized of $1,993,000 of which $1,750,000 was directed to construction 
of the Museum Support Center and $207,000 was transferred to endowment funds. 



54 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



discussed above, slightly over $200,000 was transferred to endow- 
ment funds in support of the James E. Webb Fellowship Program. 
Poplar and Jefferson Islands, located in Chesapeake Bay, were sold, 
and the net proceeds of $44,000 were earmarked for future needs 
of the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center. Finally, unde- 
veloped lots on Mustang Island near Corpus Christi, Texas, held 
as endowment fund assets, were sold for $12,000, which was added 
to the Dykes Endowment. 

Other nonappropriated fund receipts included donations for the 
Cooper-Hewitt major renovation program; grant support for con- 
struction of research facilities at the Tropical Research Institute 
and for relocation of the Calder Stabile at the National Museum of 
American History, erecting in its place the Jacksonville Bandstand; 
and interest earned on unexpended fund balances. Transfers were 
made from unrestricted funds for mortgage payments on property 
occupied by the National Museum of African Art. 



Endowment and Similar funds 

The market value of Smithsonian Endowment Funds reached a 
new high of $132,031,000 as of September 30, 1983, compared to 
$90,231,000 the year before. As shown in Table 10, the majority 
of these funds, $130,684,000, participates in the Pooled Consoli- 
dated Endowment Fund under supervised outside investment man- 
agement; $1 million is invested at the U.S. Treasury; and the 
remaining $347,000 is held in miscellaneous securities and donated 
real estate. Of this total, 58 percent represents restricted endow- 
ment, with income available only for the purposes specified by 
the original donor. The remaining 42 percent is unrestricted, with 
income available for general purposes of the Institution; of the 
unrestricted endowment funds, however, several have been desig- 
nated internally in support of specific programs, such as the Lind- 
bergh Chair of Aerospace History, as noted in Table 13, which 
lists all Smithsonian endowments. 

The Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund is invested under the 
management of three professional advisory firms under the over- 
sight of the Investment Policy Committee and the Treasurer and 

Financial Report / 55 



Table 10. Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1983 

Book value Market value 

ASSETS 

Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds: 

Cash and Equivalents $ 21,985,793 $ 21,985,794 

Bonds 1,561,583 1,752,996 

Convertible Bonds 4,915,625 5,339,400 

Stocks 73,208,858 101,605,458 

Total Pooled Funds 101,671,859 130,683,648 

Nonpooled Endowment Funds : 

Loan to U.S. Treasury in Perpetuity 1,000,000 1,000,000 

Notes Receivable 88,108 88,109 

Bonds 10,000 9,800 

Common Stocks 1,999 12,000 

Land 237,000 237,000 

Total Nonpooled Funds 1,337,107 1,346,909 

Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances . $103,008,966 $132,030,557 



FUND BALANCES 

Unrestricted Purpose : True Endowment $ 3,551,279 $ 5,107,974 

Quasi Endowment 41,627,665 50,762,039 

Total Unrestricted Purpose 45,178,944 55,870,013 

Restricted Purpose: True Endowment 42,970,281 57,119,995 

Quasi Endowment 14,859,741 19,040,549 

Total Restricted Purpose 57,830,022 - 76,160,544 

Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances . . $103,008,966 $132,030,557 



subject to policy guidelines approved by the Board of Regents. 
As of the end of fiscal year 1983, these firms, with the portion of 
the fund under their supervision, were Fiduciary Trust Company 
of New York (48 percent), Batterymarch Financial Management 
Corp. (31 percent), and Torray Clark & Company (21 percent). 
During fiscal year 1983 the total rate of return for the fund, as 
determined by an outside investment measurement service, was 
+ 48.0 percent (including interest and dividend income as well 
as market appreciation) compared to + 44.3 percent for the Stan- 
dard and Poor's 500 average and + 43.8 percent for the Dow 
Jones Industrial Average, both calculated on the same basis. Over 
the past five-year period, the fund has had an average annual total 



56 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Table. 11. Market Values of Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds 

(In $l,900s) 

Fund 9/30/79 9/30/80 9/30/81 9/30/82 9/30/83 

Unrestricted $22,614 

Freer 18,303 

Other Restricted 24,639 



$28,384 


$30,399 


$35,974 


$ 54,677 


20,771 


20,472 


22,596 


32,096 


28,175 


27,101 


30,288 


43,911 



Total $65,556 $77,330 $77,972 $88,858 $130,684 



Table 12. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds 
for Fiscal Year 1983 

(In $l,000s) 

Gifts Inter- Market 

Market and est and Income value Market 

value trans- divi- paid Sub- appre- value 

Fund 9/30/82 fers dends* out total ciation 9/30/83 

Unrestricted $35,974 $ 3,284 $ 2,123 $ 1,244 $40,137 $14,540 $ 54,677 

Freer 22,596 — 1,329 952 22,973 9,123 32,096 

Other Restricted . 30,288 750 1,805 1,295 31,548 12,363 43,911 

Total $88,858 $ 4,034 $ 5,257 $ 3,491 $94,658 $36,026 $130,684 



•■Income earned, less managers' fees of $444,656. 



rate of return, including yield, of + 19.0 percent, compared again 
to + 16.0 percent for the Standard and Poor's 500 average and 
+ 13.5 percent for the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The year- 
end market values of the components of the fund for the past 
five years are shown in Table 11, and the activity of the fund dur- 
ing fiscal year 1983 is presented in Table 12. 

As described in prior years, the Institution follows the Total 
Return Income policy, which defines total investment return as 
yield (interest and dividends) plus appreciation, including both 
realized and unrealized gains. A portion of this return is made 
available for expenditure each year, and the remainder is retained 
as principal. This total return income payout is determined in 

Financial Report / 57 



Table 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1983 



Principal 



Income 



Book 


Market 


Net 


Unexpended 


value 


value 


income 


balance 


$ 116,690 


$ 173,188 


$ 4,612 





33,645 


50,634 


1,201 


— — 


211,919 


243,339 


9,950 


— 0— 


200,581 


311,467 


7,385 


—0— 


64,255 


91,086 


2,160 


— 0— 


2,116 


3,179 


75 


— — 


451,366 


691,199 


17,350 


— 0^ 


742,011 


1,150,134 


27,270 


— — 


3,429 


4,694 


151 


— — 


552,286 


552,852 


32,619 


—0— 



UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE— TRUE : 

Avery Fund* 

Higbee, Harry, Memorial 

Hodgkins Fund* 

Morrow, Dwight W 

Mussinan, Alfred 

Olmsted, Helen A 

Poore, Lucy T. and George W.* . . . 
Porter, Henry Kirke, Memorial . . . 

Sanford, George H.* 

Smithson, James* 

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary 
Vaux, Research (Designated)* . . 

Subtotal 

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE— QUASI 

Forrest, Robert Lee 

General Endowment* 

Goddard, Robert H 

Habel, Dr. S.» 

Hart, Gustavus E 

Henry, Caroline 

Henry, Joseph and Harriet A 

Heys, Maude C 

Hinton, Carrie Susan 

Lambert, Paula C 

Medinus, Grace L 

Rhees, William Jones* 

Safford, Clara Louise 

Smithsonian Bequest Fund* 

Taggart, Ganson 

Abbott, William L. (Designated) . . 
Barstow, Frederic D. (Designated) . 
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace 

History (Designated) 

Lindbergh, Charles A. (Designated) 
Lyon, Marcus Ward, Jr. 

(Designated) 

Webb, James E., Fellowship 

Subtotal 

Total Unrestricted Purpose . . 

RESTRICTED PURPOSE— TRUE: 

Arthur, James $ 

Baird, Spencer Fullerton 

Barney, Alice Pike, Memorial 

Batchelor, Emma E 

Beauregard, Catherine, Memorial . . 

Bergen, Charlotte V 

Brown, Roland W 

Canfield, Frederick A 

Casey, Thomas Lincoln 

Chamberlain, Frances Lea 

Cooper Fund for Paleobiology .... 
Division of Mammals Curators 

Fund 

Drake Foundation 

Dykes, Charles, Bequest 

Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort .... 

Freer, Charles L 

Grimm, Sergei N 

Guggenheim, Daniel and Florence . 

Hamilton, James* 

Henderson, Edward P., 

Meteorite Fund 

Hewitt, Eleanor G., Repair Fund . . 

Hewitt, Sarah Cooper 

Hillyer, Virgil 

Hitchcock, Albert S 

Hodgkins Fund* 

Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie 



1,172,981 
3,551,279 



12,356 
707,000 



41,627,665 



1,836,202 
5,107,974 



157,312 



3,099,611 


3,466,031 


82,182 


(4,548,491 


42,680,537 


952,272 


24,527 


27,449 


651 


510 


511 


30 


1,520 


2,053 


49 


3,765 


5,066 


120 


151,631 


202,631 


4,805 


296,609 


337,263 


7,996 


78,199 


98,660 


2,338 


140,253 


181,005 


4,291 


2,934 


3,355 


80 


2,068 


2,566 


82 


134,902 


157,533 


3,735 


620,053 


692,720 


15,314 


1,260 


1,919 


45 


362,407 


484,710 


14,384 


3,035 


4,051 


120 


1,425,906 


1,678,764 


49,817 


10,628 


13,771 


1,288 



14,444 
707,000 



50,762,039 



1,140,028 



51,119 
6,791 



1,927 



65,533 



$ 45,178,944 $ 55,870,013 $1,297,340 $ 92,899 



101,824 


$ 158,762 


$ 4,711 


$ 3,426 


92,519 


141,916 


4,211 


10,593 


73,003 


113,770 


3,376 


23,270 


96,569 


117,682 


3,492 


51,145 


119,021 


158,983 


4,718 


33,202 


10,710 


11,750 


232 


232 


79,908 


109,111 


3,238 


14,889 


102,653 


174,919 


5,191 


(14) 


38,117 


50,970 


1,513 


1,852 


71,678 


111,707 


3,315 


15,119 


73,366 


83,617 


1,540 


— 0— 


5,503 


7,040 


204 


3,445 


490,369 


614,699 


18,163 


74,152 


143,298 


187,440 


5,285 


39,223 


27,664 


43,101 


1,279 


17,649 


1,068,665 


32,095,587 


952,428 


856,432 


89,739 


100,558 


2,977 


7,139 


347,300 


410,668 


12,159 


34,849 


3,603 


4,272 


202 


954 


980 


1,412 


42 


353 


20,728 


25,819 


764 


— — 


122,594 


152,401 


4,512 


— — 


19,987 


26,729 


793 


9,340 


4,040 


6,360 


189 


306 


102,008 


102,114 


6,031 


23,510 


144,741 


197,652 


5,865 


6,668 



Table 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1983 — continued 



Principal 



Book 
value 



Market 
value 



Income 



Net 
income 



Unexpended 
balance 



Hughes, Bruce 48,741 

Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for 

Oceanography 9,949,994 

Kellogg, Remington, Memorial . . . 71,514 

Kramar, Nada 8,046 

Lindsey, Jessie H.* 12,033 

Maxwell, Mary E 49,944 

Milliken, H. Oothout, Memorial . . 611 

Mineral Endowment 277,218 

Mitchell, William A 37,744 

Natural History and Conservation . 62,894 

Nelson, Edward William 59,163 

Petrocelli, Joseph, Memorial 18,900 

Reid, Addison T.* 65,295 

Roebling Fund 306,831 

Rollins, Miriam and William 585,988 

Shryock Endowment for Docents . 1,897 

Sims, George W 39,274 

Sprague Fund 3,928,297 

Springer, Frank 45,913 

Stern, Harold P., Memorial 403,563 

Stevenson, John A., Mycological 

Library 14,618 

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary 

Vaux, Research 376,703 

Walcott Research Fund, Botanical 

Publications 145,432 

Williston, Samuel Wendell, 

Diptera Research 6,671 

Zerbee, Frances Brinckle 2,410 

Subtotal 42,970,281 

RESTRICTED PURPOSE— QUASI : 

Armstrong, Edwin James 8,860 

Au Panier Fleuri 58,628 

Bacon, Virginia Purdy 266,654 

Becker, George F 459,199 

Desautels, Paul E 31,658 

Gaver, Gordon 3,591 

Hachenberg, George P. and 

Caroline 12,507 

Hanson, Martin Gustav and 

Caroline R 27,028 

Hunterdon Endowment 9,045,155 

International Council for Bird 

Preservation 573,869 

Johnson, E. R. Fenimore 22,988 

Loeb, Morris 266,395 

Long, Annette E. and Edith C 1,396 

Myer, Catherine Walden 61,430 

Noyes, Frank B 3,001 

Noyes, Pauline Riggs 27,608 

Pell, Cornelia Livingston 22,602 

Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt 

Clinton* 859,448 

Rathbun, Richard, Memorial 32,410 

Roebling Solar Research 73,302 

Ruef, Bertha M 89,632 

Schultz, Leonard P 23,563 

Seidell, Atherton 1,822,299 

Smithsonian Agency Account 643,957 

Strong, Julia D 30,461 

Witherspoon, Thomas A., Memorial 392,100 

Subtotal 14,859,741 

Total Restricted Purpose $ 57,830,022 

TOTAL ENDOWMENT FUNDS . . $103,008,966 



76,018 



2,256 



16,280 



13,349,030 


396,141 


100,686 


82,331 


2,443 


6,307 


10,391 


308 


2,406 


12,421 


928 


6,450 


77,888 


2,311 


18,897 


759 


22 


— 0— 


349,795 


10,380 


177 


47,852 


1,420 


2,641 


77,125 


2,178 


— — 


88,201 


2,617 


2,769 


29,543 


877 


21,810 


83,515 


2,808 


2,974 


476,457 


14,139 


10 


824,219 


24,250 


16,853 


2,280 


68 


226 


43,525 


1,018 


1,267 


4,928,553 


145,008 


35,725 


71,098 


2,110 


28,669 


510,070 


15,135 


39,492 


19,424 


576 


1,670 


517,280 


15,195 


26,791 


221,287 


6,568 


15,191 


8,156 


223 


898 


3,738 


111 


3,991 


57,119,995 


1,695,520 


1,579,914 


10,931 


319 


— 0— 


65,788 


1,952 


— 0— 


330,193 


9,798 


19,720 


571,502 


16,959 


4,934 


42,144 


1,229 


— — 


4,647 


138 


2,013 



17,372 



36,130 


1,072 


2,803 


11,871,976 


350,498 


3,068 


663,760 


17,624 


26,432 


26,751 


794 


12,670 


358,331 


10,633 


9,289 


2,213 


66 


219 


82,124 


2,437 


11,630 


4,139 


123 


1,940 


31,001 


920 


— — 


30,318 


900 


1,545 


1,010,155 


30,821 


4,862 


43,440 


1,289 


23,298 


93,397 


2,772 


2,463 


104,249 


3,094 


11,312 


31,424 


932 


15,845 


2,257,901 


67,003 


241,598 


786,074 


22,629 


— — 


40,820 


1,211 


4,722 


523,769 


15,543 


10,028 


19,040,549 


561,272 


410,955 


$ 76,160,544 


$2,256,792 


$1,990,869 


$132,030,557 


$3,554,132»» 


$2,083,768 



"Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments. 
**Total Return Income payout; does not include $177,691 of interest income for investment of unexpended 
income balances. 



advance each year by the Board of Regents, based on studies of 
anticipated interest and dividend yields, the Institution's program- 
matic needs, inflationary factors, and the five-year running average 
of market values, adjusted for capital additions or withdrawals. 
The income payout rate for fiscal year 1983 to restricted purpose 
and designated endowments in the Pooled Consolidated Endow- 
ment Fund constituted a 5 percent increase over the prior year, 
while the payout to unrestricted endowments was held to a con- 
stant rate; this permitted a somewhat greater reinvestment to 
unrestricted endowments. As may be seen in Table 12, income 
payout for the year w^s $3,491,000, compared to $5,257,000 of 
yield (net of managerial and custodial fees), resulting in reinvest- 
ment into principal of $1,766,000 of yield excess to predetermined 
payout. In addition to transfers to Unrestricted Endowment and 
to the newly created James E. Webb Fellowship Endowment, de- 
scribed elsewhere, gifts and other transfers to the Pooled Consoli- 
dated Fund totaled $827,000 for the year. 

Table 13 lists all Smithsonian endowment funds. Detail of the 
securities held in the Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund as of 
September 30, 1983, may be obtained upon request from the 
Treasurer of the Institution. 



Related Organizations 

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the Na- 
tional Gallery of Art, and the John F. Kennedy Center for the 
Performing Arts were established by Congress within the Institu- 
tion, but are administered by separate boards of trustees. Inde- 
pendent financial reports are prepared by each of these organiza- 
tions. Fiscal and other administrative and support activities are 
provided the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars 
on a reimbursement basis, and office space is made available for 
Center operations. 

The Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ) is an independent, 
nonprofit corporation working closely with the National Zoological 
Park. It operates, under contract, a number of beneficial conces- 
sions for the National Zoo; FONZ provided concession and rental 

60 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



fees to the Smithsonian amounting to approximately $276,000 
during calendar year 1982 (FONZ's fiscal year). In addition, FONZ 
contributed other important financial and volunteer support to Zoo 
programs. Financial affairs of this organization are described 
separately elsewhere in Smithsonian Year 1983. 

Reading is Fundamental, Inc., associated with the Institution 
since 1968, is an independent, separately incorporated entity dedi- 
cated to the improvement of reading abilities in children. Primary 
support is derived from private contributions and a federal con- 
tract with the Department of Education to operate the federal 
Inexpensive Book Distribution Program. 

The Science Information Exchange, Inc. ceased operation on 
October 31, 1981. Under a contract with the Department of Com- 
merce, the Institution has continued to provide the exchange with 
administrative and fiscal services necessary to closing out the oper- 
ation, transferring the assets to the Department of Commerce, and 
paying the outstanding net liabilities. Effective September 1983, 
the closeout of all operations was concluded. 



Accounting and Auditing 

An annual audit of the Institution's funds, federal and nonappro- 
priated, is conducted by an independent public accounting firm; 
the Coopers and Lybrand report for fiscal year 1983 is contained 
in the following pages. Audits by the internal audit staff are also 
conducted throughout the year on a number of Smithsonian activi- 
ties. Additionally, the Defense Contract Audit Agency conducts 
an annual audit of grants and contracts received from federal 
agencies, as well as their allocated administrative costs. 

The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of Regents met 
several times during the year pursuant to their responsibility under 
the bylaws of the Institution, for reviewing the Smithsonian's 
accounting systems and internal financial controls; for facilitating 
communication between the Board of Regents and auditors from 
the internal audit staff, the independent accounting firm, and the 
General Accounting Office; and for reviewing operations of the 
Institution for compliance with approved programs and policies. 

Financial Report / 61 



COOPERS & LYBRAND 

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS 



To the Board of Regents 
Smithsonian Institution 

We have examined the statement of financial condition of the 
Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1983, and the related 
statement of financial activity for the year then ended. Our exam- 
ination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards and with generally accepted governmental auditing stan- 
dards and, accordingly, included such tests of the accounting rec- 
ords and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary 
in the circumstances. We previously examined and reported upon 
the financial statements of the Smithsonian Institution for the 
year ended September 30, 1982, totals of which are included in 
the accompanying financial statements for comparative purposes 
only. 

In our opinion, the financial statements for the year ended 
September 30, 1983, referred to above, present fairly the financial 
position of the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1983, 
and the results of its operations and changes in its fund balances 
for the year then ended, in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with that of 
the preceding year. 

COOPERS & LYBRAND 
1800 M Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20036 
December 20, 1983 



62 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

Statement of Financial Condition 

September 30, 1983 

with comparative totals for September 30, 1982 
(thousands of dollars) 

Trust Federal 
funds funds 



Totals, 


Totals, 


all funds 


1982 


$ 1,971 


$ 2,678 


73,860 


38,487 


144,518 


109,551 


36,778 


21,802 


13,490 


7,072 


8,459 


9,902 


3,499 


2,653 


6,690 


6,163 


9,668 


8,771 


197,516 


198,047 


$496,449 


$405,126 



ASSETS: 

Cash on hand and in banks (Note 3) .... $ 1,952 $ 19 

Fund balances with U.S. Treasury (Note 4) 525 73,335 

Investments (Notes 1 and 5) 144,518 — 

Receivables (Note 7) 36,357 421 

Advance payments (Note 8) 421 13,069 

Merchandise inventory (Note 1) 8,459 — 

Materials and supplies inventory (Note 1) 2,178 1,321 
Amount to be provided for accrued annual 

leave — 6,690 

Prepaid and deferred expense (Note 1) . . . 9,668 — 

Property and equipment (Notes 1 and 9) . . 17,307 180,209 

$221,385 $275,064 

LIABILITIES: 

Accounts payable and accrued expenses, 
including interfund payable of $17,261 

(Note 7) $ 27,209 $ 11,887 $ 39,096 $ 25,739 

Deposits held in custody for other organi- 
zations (Note 2) 2,151 36 2,187 2,300 

Accrued annual leave (Note 1) 1,149 6,690 7,839 6,994 

Deferred revenue (Note 1) 22,015 — 22,015 20,061 

Total Habilities 52,524 18,613 71,137 55,094 

UNDELIVERED ORDERS — 56,778 56,778 30,929 

FUND BALANCES (Note 1): 
Current: 

Unrestricted general purpose 5,076 — 5,076 5,048 

Special purpose 13,863 — 13,863 13,003 

Restricted 7,671 — 7,671 5,906 

Endowment and similar funds (Note 6) . . 103,009 — 103,009 84,248 

Plant funds (Note 9) 39,242 — 39,242 24,287 

Total trust fund balances 168,861 — 168,861 132,492 

Operating funds — 75 75 202 

Construction funds — 18,068 18,068 5,657 

Capital funds — 181,530 181,530 180,752 

Total federal fund balances — 199,673 199,673 186,611 

Total all fund balances 168,861 199,673 368,534 319,103 

Total liabilities, undelivered orders 

and fund balances $221,385 $275,064 $496,449 $405,126 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 

Financial Report / 63 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 
Statement of Financial Activity 

year ended September 30, 1983 

with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1982 
(thousands of dollars) 



TRUST FUNDS 



Total trust 
funds 



Endowment 
Current and similar 
funds funds 



101,957 
13,125 

7,931 



7,770 


45 


2,301 


— 


133,084 


13,047 


26,082 





10,344 


— 


1,297 


— 


85,133 


— 



Revenue and other additions : 

Appropriations $ — 

Auxiliary activities revenue 101,957 

Federal grants and contracts 13,125 

Investment income (net of $445,000 for 

management and custodian fees) 9,293 

Net gain on sale of securities and real 

property 14,451 

Gifts, bequests and foundation grants 21,456 

Additions to plant (Note 9) 2,880 

Rentals, fees, commissions and other 2,301 

Total revenue and other additions 165,463 

Expenditures and other deductions : 

Research and educational expenditures 26,082 

Administrative expenditures 10,344 

Facilities services expenditures 1,297 

Auxiliary activities expenditures 85,133 

Acquisition of plant (Note 9) 2,873 

Property use and retirements (Note 9) 3,341 

Retirement of indebtedness 7 

Interest on indebtedness 17 

Total expenditures and other deductions 

Excess of revenue and other additions 
over (under) expenditures and other 
deductions (Note 11) 

Transfers among funds — additions (deductions) : 

Mandatory principal and interest on notes . . 

Nonmandatory for designated purposes, net 

(Note 12) 

Total transfers among funds 

Net increase (decrease) for the year .... 

Returned to U.S. Treasury 

Fund balances at beginning of year 

Fund balances at end of year 



129,094 


122,856 
10,228 


— 


36,369 


13,047 


— 


(24) 


— 


— 


(7,551) 
(7,575) 
2,653 


5,714 


— 


5,714 


36,369 


18,761 


132,492 


23,957 


84,248 


$168,861 


$ 26,610 


$103,009 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 



Plant 
funds 



Total 
federal 
funds 



FEDERAL FUNDS 



Operating Construction Capital Totals, Totals, 

funds funds funds all funds 1982 



$ — 



$195,756 



$149,256 



$ 46,500 



$ — 



$195,756 

101,957 

13,125 



$145,234 
95,593 
13,217 



1,362 



9,293 



9,635 



1,449 

13,641 

2,880 



17,877 
85 



85 



19,332 


213,718 


149,341 





95,916 


95,916 


— 


11,139 


11,139 


— 


42,351 


42,351 


2,873 


34,089 


— 


3,341 
7 


17,099 


— 


17 


— 


— 


6,238 


200,594 


149,406 



46,500 



34,089 



34,089 



17,877 



17,877 



17,099 



17,099 



14,451 


3,884 


21,456 


6,205 


20,757 


32,896 


2,386 


2,494 


379,181 


309,158 


121,998 


111,461 


21,483 


18,471 


43,648 


39,338 


85,133 


85,153 


36,962 


14,959 


20,440 


13,479 


7 


6 


17 


18 


329,688 


282,885 



13,094 



13,124 



(65) 



12,411 



778 



49,493 



26,273 



24 

1,837 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


1,861 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


14,955 

24,287 
$ 39,242 


13,124 
(62) 
186,611 

$199,673 


(65) 
(62) 
202 

$ 75 


12,411 

5,657 
$ 18,068 


778 

180,752 
$181,530 


49,493 
(62) 
319,103 

$368,534 


26,273 

(125) 

292,955 

$319,103 





SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 
Notes to Financial Statements 

1. Summary of significant accounting policies 

Basis of presentation. These financial statements do not include the accounts 
of the National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Perform- 
ing Arts, or the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, which 
were established by Congress within the Smithsonian Institution (Institution) 
but are administered under separate boards of trustees. (See Note 2.) 

The accounts of the federal funds have been prepared on the obligation 
basis of accounting, which basis is in accordance with accounting principles 
prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States as set forth in 
the Policy and Procedures Manual for Guidance of Federal Agencies. The 
obligation basis of accounting differs in some respects from generally ac- 
cepted accounting principles. "Under this basis of accounting, commitments 
of the operating fund, such as purchase orders and contracts, are recognized 
as expenditures, and the related obligations are reported on the balance 
sheet even though goods and services have not been received. Such commit- 
ments aggregate $26,148,000 at September 30, 1983. In addition, construction 
commitments amounted to $30,630,000 at September 30, 1983. 

The trust funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of funds obtained from 
private sources, from federal grants and contracts, and from certain business 
activities related to the operations of the Institution. The federal funds 
reflect the receipt and expenditures of funds obtained from Congressional 
appropriations. 

Fund accounting. To ensure observance of limitations and restrictions placed 
on the use of resources available to the Institution, the accounts of the 
Institution are maintained in accordance with the principles of fund account- 
ing. This is the procedure by which resources for various purposes are 
classified for funds control, accounting, and reporting purposes into funds 
established according to their appropriation, nature, and purposes. Separate 
accounts are maintained for each fund; however, in the accompanying finan- 
cial statements, funds that have similar characteristics have been combined 
into fund groups. Accordingly, all financial transactions have been recorded 
and reported by fund group. 

The assets, liabilities, and fund balances of the Institution are reported in 
self-balancing fund groups as follows: 

Trust current funds, which include unrestricted resources, represent the 
portion of expendable funds that is available for support of Institution 
operations. Amounts restricted by the donor for specific purposes are 
segregated from other current funds. 

Trust endowment and similar funds include funds that are subject to 
restrictions of gift instruments, requiring in perpetuity that the principal 
be invested and the income only be used. Also classified as endowment 
and similar funds are gifts which allow the expenditure of principal but 
only under certain specified conditions and quasi-endowment funds. 

66 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Quasi-endowment funds are funds established by the governing board 
for the same purposes as endowment funds; however, any portion of 
such funds may be expended. Restricted quasi-endowment funds repre- 
sent gifts for restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the 
principal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the 
governing board has elected to invest the principal and expend only the 
income for the purpose stipulated by the donor. 

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted for future plant acquisi- 
tions and funds expended for plant. Pledges for the construction of The 
Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures are recorded as 
gifts in the plant fund in the period the pledge document is received. 
Federal operating funds represent the portion of expendable funds that 
is available for support of Institution operations. Separate subfund 
groups are maintained for each appropriation — Salaries and Expenses 
appropriations. Special Foreign Currency appropriations, and Barro Colo- 
rado Island Trust Fund. 

The balance of this fund represents amounts available for support of 
specific Institution operations including the Special Foreign Currency 
Program, Franklin Delano Roosevelt Appropriations, and Barro Colorado 
Island Trust Fund. 

Federal construction funds represent the portion of expendable funds that 
is available for building and facility construction, restoration, renovation, 
and repair. Separate subfund groups are maintained for each appropria- 
tion — Construction and Improvements, National Zoological Park, Restora- 
tion and Renovation of Buildings and Museum Support Center. 
Federal capital funds represent the amount of the investment of the 
United States Government in the net assets of the Institution acquired 
with federal funds and nonexpendable property transfers from Govern- 
ment agencies. 
Investments. All gains and losses arising from the sale, collection, or other 
disposition of investments are accounted for in the fund in which the related 
assets are recorded. Income from investments is accounted for in a similar 
manner, except for income derived from investments of endowment and 
similar funds, which is accounted for in the fund to which it is restricted 
or, if unrestricted, as revenue in unrestricted current funds. 
Inventory. Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. Cost is 
determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, or retail cost method 
(for those inventories held for resale). 

Deferred revenue and expense. Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian 
magazine is recorded as income over the period of the related subscription, 
which is one year. Costs related to obtaining subscriptions to Smithsonian 
magazine are charged against income over the period of the subscription. 

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses of other auxiliary 
activities during the period in which the activity is conducted. 

Works of art, living or other specimens. The Institution acquires its collec- 
tions, which include works of art, library books, photographic archives, 
objects and specimens, through purchase or by donation of the items them- 
selves. In accordance with policies generally followed by museums, no value 

Financial Report / 67 



is assigned to the collections on the statement of financial condition. Pur- 
chases for the collections are expensed currently. 

Property and equipment. Capital improvements and equipment purchased 
with trust funds and utilized in income-producing activities are capitalized 
at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful 
lives of three to 10 years. Equipment purchased with trust funds for use by 
non-income-producing activities is treated as a deduction of the current fund 
and a capitalized cost of the plant fund. Depreciation on equipment capital- 
ized in the plant fund is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated 
useful life of 3 to 10 years (see Note 9). Equipment purchased with federal 
funds is recorded at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over a 
period of 10 years. 

Real estate (land and buildings) purchased with trust funds is recorded 
at cost, to the extent that restricted or unrestricted funds were expended 
therefor, or appraised value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands 
in the Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion, which have been recorded 
at nominal values. Costs of original building structures and major additions 
are depreciated over their estimated useful lives of 30 years. Costs of reno- 
vating, restoring and improving structures are depreciated over their esti- 
mated useful lives of 15 years (see Note 9). 

Buildings and other structures, additions to buildings, and fixed equipment 
purchased with federal funds are recorded at cost and depreciated on a 
straight-line basis over a period of 30 years. 

Certain lands occupied by the Smithsonian Institution's buildings were 
appropriated and reserved by the Congress for that purpose and are not 
reflected in the accompanying financial statements. Property and nonexpend- 
able equipment acquired through transfer from Government agencies are 
capitalized at the transfer price or at estimated amounts taking into con- 
sideration their usefulness, condition, and market value. 

Government contracts. The Institution has a number of contracts with the 

U.S. Government, which primarily provide for cost reimbursement to the 

Institution. Contract revenue is recognized when billable or received in the 
trust funds. 

Contributed services. A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made 
significant contributions of their time in the furtherance of the Institution's 
programs. The value of this contributed time is not reflected in these state- 
ments since it is not susceptible to objective measurement or valuation. 

Annual leave unfunded. The Institution's civil service employees earn annual 
leave in accordance with federal law and regulations. However, only the cost 
of leave taken as salaries is funded and recorded as an expense. The cost 
of unused annual leave at year-end is reflected in the accompanying financial 
statements as an asset and accrued liability in the federal funds. 

2. Related activities 

The Institution provides fiscal and administrative services to several separately 
incorporated organizations in which certain officials of the Institution serve 
on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these orga- 
nizations for the aforementioned services, together with rent for Institution 

68 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



facilities occupied, etc. totaled approximately $313,000 for the year ended 
September 30, 1983. The following summarizes the approximate expenditures 
of these organizations for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1983, as reflected 
in their individual financial statements and which are not included in the 
accompanying financial statements of the Institution: 

($000s) 

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange $ 300 

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc $6,500 

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars — trust funds $3,800 
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars — 

federal appropriations $2,341 

The Smithsonian Science Information Exchange ceased operations as of 
October 31, 1981. The U.S. Department of Commerce provided a grant to 
close down operations and to perfect an orderly liquidation. All activity 
stipulated under the grant was completed by September 1983. 

3. Cash on hand — federal funds 

This represents deposits in transit and the amount of imprest fund cash 
advanced by the U.S. Treasury to imprest fund cashiers for small purchasing 
purposes. 

4. Fund balances with U.S. Treasury 

The account represents fund balances on the books of the U.S. Treasury 
available for disbursement. 

5. Investments 

Investments are recorded at cost, if purchased, or estimated fair market value 
at date of acquisition, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1983, investments 
are composed of the following: 

Carrying Market 

value value 

($000s) ($000s) 

Current funds : 

Certificates of deposit $ 11,492 $ 11,492 

Commercial paper 3,411 3,405 

U.S. Government and quasi-Government obligations 27,142 26,969 

Common stock 16 11 

Preferred stock 30 36 

42,091 41,913 
Endowment and similar funds: 

Money market account 21,597 21,597 

Deposit with U.S. Treasury 1,000 1,000 

U.S. Government and quasi-Government obligations 1,572 1,763 

Corporate bonds 4,916 5,339 

Common stock 71,646 100,138 

Preferred stock 1,565 1,480 

102,296 131,317 



Financial Report / 69 



Plant funds: 

U.S. Government and quasi-Government obligations 
Common stock 



31 
100 



30 



131 



30 



$144,518 $173,260 



Effective October 1, 1982, the deposit with the U.S. Treasury has been in- 
vested in U.S. Government securities at a variable yield based on market 
interest rates. Substantially all the investments of the endowment and similar 
funds are pooled on a market value basis (consolidated fund) with each 
individual fund subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the value 
per unit at market value at the beginning of the month within which the 
transaction takes place. Of the total units, each having a market value of 
$210.27, 291,970 units were owned by endowment, and 329,523 units were 
owned by quasi-endowment at September 30, 1983. 

The following tabulation summarizes changes in relationships between 
cost and market values of the pooled investments: 



($000s) 



Market 



Cost 



Net 
change 



Market 

value 

per unit 



End of year $130,684 $101,672 

Beginning of year $ 88,858 $ 82,881 

Increase in unrealized net 

gain for the year 

Realized net gain 

for the year 

Total realized and 
unrealized net 
gain for the year 



$ 29,012 


$210.27 


5,977 


148.04 


23,035 


— 


12,990 


— 



$ 36,025 $ 62.23 



6. Endowment and similar funds 

Endowment and similar funds at September 30, are summarized as follows: 

($000s) 
Endowment funds, income available for: 

Restricted purposes $ 42,970 

Unrestricted purposes 3,551 

46,521 
Quasi-endowment funds, principal and income available for: 

Restricted purposes 14,860 

Unrestricted purposes 41,628 

56,488 
Total endowment and similar funds $103,009 



70 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



The Institution utilizes the "total return" approach to investment manage- 
ment of endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Under this approach, 
the total investment return is considered to include realized and unrealized 
gains and losses in addition to interest and dividends. An amount equal 
to the difference between interest and dividends earned during the year and 
the amount computed under the total return formula is transferred to or 
from the current funds. 

In applying this approach, it is the Institution's policy to provide, as being 
available for current expenditures, an amount taking into consideration such 
factors as, but not limited to: (1) 4V2% of the five-year average of the market 
value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during this period), (2) 
current dividends and interest yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and scien- 
tists, and (4) inflationary factors as measured by the Consumer Price Index; 
however, where the market value of the assets of any endowment fund is 
less than llO^/o of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of dona- 
tion), the amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends received. 
The total return factor for 1983 was $6.24 per unit to the Restricted and 
Designated Purpose Endowment Funds and $5.00 per unit to the Unrestricted 
General Purpose Endowment Funds; new units were purchased for the Unre- 
stricted Endowment Funds with the $1.24, the difference in the total return 
factor. The total return applied for 1983 was $2,373,000 to the Restricted 
and Designated Purpose Endowment Funds and $1,117,000 to the Unrestricted 
General Purpose Endowment Funds. 

7. Receivables 

Receivables at September 30, 1983 included the following: 

($000s) 

Trust funds 

Accounts receivable, auxiliary activities; net of allowance for 

doubtful accounts of $817,000 in 1983 $ 9,079 

Interfund receivables due from current funds : 

Endowment and similar funds 388 

Plant funds 16,873 

Interest and dividends receivable 1,727 

Unbilled costs and fees from grants and contracts 631 

Pledges 7,553 

Other 106 

36,357 
Federal funds 

Service fees and charges 421 

Total, all funds $36,778 



8. Advance payments 

Advance payments represent advances made to Government agencies, educa- 
tional institutions, firms and individuals for services to be rendered or 
property or materials to be furnished. 

Financial Report / 71 



As of September 30, 1983, the Institution has advances outstanding to the 
U.S. Government of approximately $10,179,000, principally for construction 
services to be received in the future. The Institution at that date also had 
advances outstanding to educational institutions amounting to approximately 
$2,068,000, principally under the Special Foreign Currency Program. 

9. Property and equipment 

At September 30, 1983, property and equipment which has been capitalized 
(see Note 1) is comprised of the following: 

($000s) 
Current funds 

Capital improvements $ 2,464 

Equipment 2,368 

Leasehold improvements 262 

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization 2,874 

2,220 
Endowment and similar funds 
Land 237 

Plant funds 

Land and buildings 18,307 

Equipment 2,134 

Less accumulated depreciation 5,591 

14,850 

Total, trust funds $ 17,307 

Capital funds 

Property 249,007 

Equipment 22,782 

Less accumulated depreciation 91,580 

180,209 
$197,516 



Depreciation and amortization expense for 1983 for trust funds income-pro- 
ducing assets amounted to approximately $1,436,000, which is included in 
auxiliary activities expenditures in the current funds. Effective October 1, 
1982, the Institution capitalized non-income-producing equipment net of 
accumulated depreciation, as well as, recognized depreciation on buildings 
previously capitalized but not depreciated. The effect of this change was not 
material to these financial statements. Depreciation of trust funds non-income- 
producing equipment and buildings for 1983 amounted to approximately 
$3,340,000. 

Depreciation expense reflected in expenditures of the Capital Funds of 1983 
was $7,586,000. 

The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1983, includes $24,555,000 of 
unexpended plant funds. 

72 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



10. Pension plan 

The Institution has separate retirement plans for trust and federal employees. 
Under the trust fund's plan, both the Institution and employees contribute 
stipulated percentages of salary which are used to purchase individual an- 
nuities, the rights to which are immediately vested with the employees. The 
cost of the plan for the year ended September 30, 1983, was $3,037,000. It is 
the policy of the Institution to fund plan costs accrued currently. There are 
no unfunded prior service costs under the plan. 

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by the Civil Service 
Retirement Program. Under this program, the Institution withholds from the 
gross pay of each federal employee and remits to the Civil Service Retirement 
and Disability Fund (Fund) the amounts specified by such program. The 
Institution contributes 7% of basic annual salary to the Fund. The cost of 
the plan for the year ended September 30, 1983, was approximately $5,500,000. 

11. Excess of expenditures and other deductions 

The net excess of expenditures and other deductions over revenue and other 
additions disclosed for federal operating fund in the Statement of the Activity 
for the year ended September 30, 1983, arose because certain multiyear 
appropriations, having been recorded as income in prior years and carried 
forward as fund balance, were expended during the year. 

12. Nonmandatory transfers for designated purposes 

The following transfers among trust funds were made for the year ended 
September 30, 1983, in thousands of dollars: 

Current funds 
ment and 

Unre- similar Plant 

stricted Restricted funds funds 

Portion of investment yield 

appropriated (Note 5) $ (897) $ (889) $1,786 $ — 

Plant acquisitions (2.044) — — 2,044 

Income added to endowment 

principal — (340) 340 — 

Appropriated as quasi-endowment (3,084) (297) 3,588 (207) 

Total $(6,025) $(1,526) $5,714 $1,837 



13. Income taxes 

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of 
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Organizations described in 
that section are taxable only on their unrelated business income, which was 
immaterial for the Institution for 1983. 

It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt from taxation as an 
instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section 501(c)(1) of the 
Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all income 
taxation. The Institution has not as yet formally sought such dual status. 

Financial Report / 73 



*>.. ■ 



/ "Stars" Gallery at the National Air and Space Museum 
features special effects and high-tech exhibits that demonstrate for visitors 
what astronomers have learned about the stars over the years. 



.mufim msmm . ,;/- 1.. 



Smithsonian Year • ip8} 
SCIENCE 



DAVID CHALLINOR, 
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR SCIENCE 



The National Air and Space Museum 

At the completion of its seventh year of operation in the new 
building, the National Air and Space Museum (nasm) remains the 
most visited museum in the world, with an attendance of 70 
million since July 1976. Under the leadership of Walter J. Boyne, 
who was named director of the museum in February 1983, the 
members of the nasm staff continue their efforts to blend exhibit, 
public service, and educational functions with a renewed emphasis 
on research. 

Boyne, a nine-year veteran of the museum staff who had served 
as acting director since June 1982, has set as a major priority the 
creation at nasm of a world center for the study of the history of 
aerospace science and technology. The existing archival resources 
and professional staff of the museum will provide a firm founda- 
tion for this expanded research program. 

An associate director of research will be named to coordinate 
the effort, and the three research departments (Aeronautics, Space 
Science and Exploration, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies) 
have prepared detailed research projections in the museum's five- 
year master plan. 

Long-term goals include the preparation of a four-volume 
Smithsonian History of Aviation, scheduled for publication in 
1989; a Space Telescope Historical Project in cooperation with the 
Department of the History of Science, Johns Hopkins University, 



75 



aimed at documenting the most ambitious space science program 
of recent years; and research and planning for major exhibitions 
such as The Golden Age of Flight; Flight Technology; and Earth 
Satellites. 

As part of this program to enhance research, the archival 
center at nasm has been enlarged and updated with the latest 
equipment designed to assist the researcher in making use of the 
extensive documentary and photo collections. The completion of 
the inventory of nasm artifacts has opened yet another new source 
of information for researchers. 

The establishment of reciprocal links with other centers of aero- 
space research and scholarship will play an important role in 
nasm's future. Evidence of the early success of this effort is to 
be found in the substantial increase in the number of scholars 
participating in the nasm fellowship, internship, and visiting 
scholar programs. Plans for expanding these programs and for 
increasing the number of scholarly publications, symposia, lectures, 
and seminars sponsored by the museum are part of a general 
realignment and reorientation that will enable the staff to address 
the problems of research more directly. 

The museum continues its practice of closely integrating cura- 
torial efforts in research, exhibitions, education, and public service 
to achieve multiple goals on a broad front. The coordination of 
curatorial interest with the contents of the collection and the 
requirements for exhibition and publication has resulted in levels 
of achievement that would otherwise be beyond the museum's 
capabilities. 

For example, the nasm commemoration of the twenty-fifth anni- 
versary of the space age resulted in a special lecture, a symposium 
cosponsored by the National Academy of Sciences, and a book, 
The First 25 Years in Space, edited by curator Allan Needell, all 
of which complemented an exhibition on the subject featured in 
the Milestones of Flight Gallery. The exhibition was subsequently 
transferred to Boston's Museum of Science and served as the 
basis for a Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service 
(sites) exhibition. 

In similar fashion, interest in minority involvement in aero- 
nautics resulted in the highly acclaimed Black Wings exhibition, 
which in turn was part of a larger program that included the publi- 

76 I Smithsonian Year 1983 



cation of a short book on the subject, a filmstrip, a symposium, 
and a sites exhibition. This effort also resulted in the addition of 
a large amount of research material, photographs, and other items 
to the NASM research files. The book Black Wings: The American 
Black in Aviation, by curators Von Hardesty and Dominick Pisano, 
was carried by astronaut Guion Bluford on the STS-8 mission of 
the Space Shuttle Challenger, and will become a part of the exhibi- 
tion. 

The First International Ethnoastronomy Conference, sponsored 
by NASM in September 1983, is another illustration of the attempt 
to broaden the utility of the research resources of the museum. 
Attending scholars used the Zeiss Model VI instrument in the 
Albert Einstein Spacearium as a visual analog computer to simulate 
particular astronomical phenomena under discussion. 

The museum's Center for Earth and Planetary Studies continued 
its research into a variety of problems. These included the chem- 
ical composition of the lunar surface; the origins of structural 
features of planetary surfaces based on photogeologic investiga- 
tions of the Moon and Mars; the interpretation of compressional 
features seen in Viking Orbiter images; and terrestrial studies 
concentrating on the interpretation of thermal infrared data gath- 
ered by earth-orbiting Nimbus satellites. 

The emphasis on research was clearly reflected in the ten major 
books and thirty monographs and articles published by the nasm 
staff during the year. The highly acclaimed Red Phoenix: The 
Rise of Soviet Air Power, by Von Hardesty, covered an important, 
if neglected, aspect of history. Messerschmitt Me 262: Arrow to 
the Future, by Walter Boyne, won the 1982 award for the best 
foreign book from the Aero Club of France. The exhibition booklet 
Apollo to the Moon: A Dream of Centuries received a Blue Pencil 
Award from the National Association of Government Communi- 
cators. Prelude to the Space Age: Rocket Societies 1924-1940, 
Milestones of Flight: Pathfinders of the Sky, and Rockets, Missiles 
and Spacecraft of the National Air and Space Museum represent 
other noteworthy publications of the past year. The quarterly 
Air and Space Magazine was distributed to more than 15,000 
educators and librarians in 1982, constituting a significant effort 
by NASM in the area of education. 

The research program also contributed to the success of the 



Science I 77 



fourteen exhibitions opened this year. Stars, a major gallery opened 
in June, traces mankind's fascination with the stars from pre- 
history to the present time. Visitors enter the exhibition through 
a full-scale recreation of a Stonehenge arch, and are drawn past 
a fascinating array of artifacts, including the back-up 1970 Skylab 
Apollo Telescope Mount and "Uhuru," an x-ray astronomy satellite 
used by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory to map the 
heavens. Dozens of attractive display units compose this successful 
and popular gallery. 

Around the World in 30 Days, an exhibition commemorating 
the first successful round-the-world helicopter flight, was created 
and installed in thirty days, a museum record. H. Ross Perot, Jr., 
and Jay Coburn, the pilots of the Bell 206 Longranger, were 
awarded the Smithsonian's prestigious Samuel P. Langley Medal 
for their achievement. 

An exhibition honoring the leadership and accomplishments of 
former National Aeronautics and Space Administration (nasa) 
administrator James E. Webb was unveiled in the Apollo to the 
Moon Gallery. The bronze bust of Webb commissioned for the 
exhibition contains one gram of lunar soil. 

The Viking View from Mars unit incorporated into the Exploring 
the Planets Gallery illustrates the problems faced by the museum 
in attempting to provide visitors with the most up-to-date informa- 
tion in the rapidly expanding field of space science. In this case, 
images obtained by the Viking Lander on the surface of Mars were 
routed from the nasa Deep Space Network, through the Jet Pro- 
pulsion Laboratory and the University of Washington, to a screen 
in the museum. 

Perhaps the most significant "first" achieved by nasm this year 
occurred when nasa agreed to transfer formal ownership of one 
of the Viking Landers on Mars, thus making nasm the first truly 
interplanetary museum. 

Four art exhibitions were opened, including The Artist and the 
Space Shuttle, featuring more than 100 pieces inspired by the 
Space Shuttle program. At Home in the Sky: The Aviation Art 
of Frank Wootton is a retrospective show of fifty-nine paintings 
and drawings of aircraft, several of which had not previously been 
exhibited. 

In an effort to encourage the interest of artists in treating aero- 



78 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



space themes, nasm is sponsoring a competition for drawings and 
paintings dealing with civil aeronautics, 1919-1939. The winning 
entries, to be determined by a panel of distinguished judges, will 
be added to the permanent art collection, with selected pieces 
being incorporated into the upcoming Golden Age of Flight exhi- 
bition. 

The museum is introducing entirely new techniques in the pro- 
cess of acquisition, storage, and retrieval of documentary and pho- 
tographic archival material. A major accomplishment was a com- 
pletely reconciled inventory of the entire collection. 

The acquisition of new material remains an important concern. 
The addition of the back-up Apollo Telescope Mount, acquired 
for display in the new Stars Gallery, means that the museum now 
holds a complete Skylab spacecraft. A Viking Lander Biology 
Instrument was also added to the already impressive collection of 
spacecraft and space instruments. 

Eleven aircraft were added to the nasm holdings this year, 
including the Martin B-57, the Douglas AH-1, the Dassault Falcon 
Jet, and the Antonov An-2. 

The staff of the museum's Paul E. Garber Preservation, Restora- 
tion and Storage Facility completed the restoration of five aircraft 
and thirty astronautical artifacts in addition to the ongoing preser- 
vation program. The Northrop N-lM, Focke-Wulf Fwl90F-8 and 
Nakajima JlNl Irving were among the aircraft rolled out of the 
shop this year. 

Plans for the construction of a new facility to house air and 
space craft that cannot be accommodated in the museum building 
or at the Garber Facility moved forward when the Board of 
Regents granted approval for detailed studies of a possible Dulles 
Airport site. Funds were also earmarked for architectural studies. 
A new 1,000-seat restaurant was approved for construction on the 
East Terrace, to open in late 1985. 

The opening of an environmentally secure document support 
center at the Garber Facility represents a major step toward mak- 
ing the 3,500 linear feet of technical manuals, scrapbooks, draw- 
ings, photographs, and documentary collections in the nasm 
archive more accessible to the public. The ongoing archival video- 
disc program continues to pioneer the use of new technology to 
preserve historic records and photos. The first videodisc, contain- 

Science I 79 



ing 100,000 photographic images of United States and foreign air- 
craft, has been produced. A second disc, containing biographical 
material on aerospace pioneers, is near completion. The introduc- 
tion of the new system has decreased by 50 percent the necessity 
of handling often fragile and historic photos. 

New additions to the photo archive include approximately 
150,000 World War II and prewar U.S. Air Force photos; a collec- 
tion of 600 rare Soviet aviation photos donated to the museum by 
Time-Life Books; and a collection of 100 photos documenting the 
career in government of former nasa administrator James E. Webb. 
All new photographic material is being inventoried and prepared 
for transfer to videodisc. 

Ongoing collection efforts will remain the key element in build- 
ing an integrated research archive. Oral history programs like the 
Space Astronomy Oral History Project, and collection projects in 
specialized areas, such as the role of blacks and women in aero- 
nautics, early American aeronautics, and Soviet aviation, will help 
to strengthen the existing holdings. 

The NASM public service, education, audiovisual production, and 
theater units help to carry the museum's message to the public. 
Four iMAX films are now presented in the Samuel P. Langley 
Theater. To Fly was voted the best nontheatrical film of the 1970s 
by the Information Film Producers of America. The new offering. 
Flyers, has been seen by 600,000 visitors since its premiere in 
August 1982. 

Planning is now underway for two new imax films to be shown 
in the Langley Theater. Through an agreement with nasa, an imax 
camera will be carried aboard a future Space Shuttle mission in 
order to obtain spectacular footage to be used in the production 
of a film on the Space Shuttle. Another imax presentation, now 
being scripted by the Francis Thompson Company, will deal with 
the analogies of natural and mechanical flight. 

Two successful imax festivals were held in the Langley Theater. 
One of the featured films — Hail Columbia! — -has been added to 
the daily theater program. A fully automated box office capable 
of handling daily advance sales for both the Langley Theater and 
Einstein Spacearium has reduced the volume of audit work and 
eliminated the need for part-time accounting positions. 

The number of special events sponsored by the museum doubled 

80 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



in 1982. The Langley Theater and Einstein Spacearium hosted the 
popular aviation and space fiction film series, as well as public 
lectures. Aircraft designer Edward Heinemann offered the annual 
Lindbergh Lecture, while physicist and space science adminis- 
trator William Pickering presented the von Braun Lecture. Twelve 
additional aviation lectures; the "Exploring Space with Astron- 
omers" series; the twice-weekly "Noontime with the Stars" talks; 
and the "Exploring Stars and Planets" school lecture series were 
designed to meet the needs of a variety of audiences. 

The annual Paul E. Garber Facility open house drew a record 
crowd of 12,000 visitors. The facility's popularity with the public 
continues to grow. Eleven thousand spectators attended the Fan- 
tastic Festival of Flight sponsored at nasm. This program in- 
cluded performances by magicians, acrobats, jugglers, stiltwalkers, 
and others who defy gravity, as well as the tethered ascent of a 
replica Montgolfier hot air balloon, commemorating the 200th anni- 
versary of human flight. 

The seventh annual Frisbee Disc Festival drew 10,000 enthusi- 
astic spectators to the Mall, and visitors to the Smithsonian Folk- 
life Festival were also treated to presentations relating to aero- 
nautics arranged in cooperation with nasm. 

The museum cosponsored an evening to honor the STS-7 astro- 
nauts. The crew of the Space Shuttle Challenger, Robert Crippen, 
John Fabian, Frederick Hauck, Norman Thagard, and Sally Ride, 
narrated "home movies" taken during their stay in space. Astro- 
naut Ride, the nation's first female space voyager, presented her 
flight suit to NASM director Boyne. The garment is now on display 
in the Space Hall. 

The Education Division expanded its tour program during 1983 
to include special "Tours of the Month" focusing on timely 
subjects; holiday season family tours; and Garber Facility and 
NASM highlight tours for secondary school students. A recorded 
tour program instituted in November 1982 offers taped descrip- 
tions of museum displays in six languages. 

The Briefing Room continues to be used for teacher workshops, 
professional meetings, live demonstrations, and such successful 
public programs as the curatorial lecture series. The facility has 
also been used for teleconferencing. 

Educational programs aimed at special audiences included D. C. 



Science I 81 



^^f- 



Eighth graders from the District of Columbia public schools are shown with 
Mike Lyons, a Paul E. Garber Facility craftsman, during a demonstration 
of model airplane building on "D.C. Day '83." This event, held on Febru- 
ary 22, 1983, gave students an opportunity to explore the museum and to 
develop career awareness in aerospace fields. 

Below: Dr. Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut, gives National Air and 
Space Museum Director Walter Boyne "something that was very close to me 
during the flight"— her flight suit— at a celebration July 18, 1983, honoring 
the STS-7 crew of the Space Shuttle Challenger. 



Day '83, in which students from five District of Columbia Schools 
spent an activity-filled day at nasm; and the Stars and Planets 
Symposium, involving fifty secondary-level science educators in 
a three-day learning session centering on the Stars Gallery. 

NASM remains a leader in the development and use of new man- 
agement techniques and technologies aimed at streamlining mu- 
seum operations and improving visitor services. The quarterly 
Director's Program Review, instituted in November 1979, provides 
a comprehensive management overview of current and future pro- 
grams. The installation of a word-processing system has improved 
the capabilities of the staff in areas ranging from publications to 
exhibition-label preparation and typesetting. The mead nexis sys- 
tem enables the library staff to conduct quick and efficient infor- 
mation searches for curators and researchers. A new microprocessor 
capability allows the audiovisual unit of the exhibits staff to pro- 
duce a wide range of information in a variety of formats, while 
the application of fiber-optic technology has made possible the 
use of high definition color video imagery in museum exhibitions. 

In creating the National Air and Space Museum, Congress 
recognized a public need to record, preserve, and commemorate 
the achievements of men and women who have given the gift of 
flight to the world. The museum will continue to prosper to the 
extent that its policies and programs achieve these ends. 



National Museum of Natural History/ 
National Museum of Man 

CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN 

Because of congressional action in the 1982-83 year, the museum's 
Center for the Study of Man was not funded, thus terminating the 
activities of the Research Institute for Immigration and Ethnic 
Studies and the National Human Studies Film Center, whose 
archives has been merged with the museum's National Anthro- 
pological Archives. 

Science I 83 



EXHIBITIONS 
Three highly acclaimed exhibitions opened in the Thomas M. 
Evans Gallery during the 1982-83 year: Japanese Ceramics Today: 
Masterworks from the Kikuchi Collection (February ll-April 3) 
showed 300 works by close to 100 of Japan's most prominent 
living potters, drawn from the collection of Mme. Tomo Kikuchi 
of Tokyo, a noted patron of Japanese arts; The Silk Route and the 
Diamond Path (May 6-June 30) exhibited esoteric Buddhist art 
created along the ancient trans-Himalayan trade routes, including 
rare sculptures, painted scrolls, ritual objects, and fragments of 
wall paintings; and The Heritage of Islam (June 2-September 5) 
celebrated the richness and diversity of the 1,400-year-old Islamic 
civilization, giving the public the opportunity to see more than 
250 scientific and artistic treasures. 

Curators organized three popular exhibitions in 1982-83. 
Through the efforts of Dr. Clyde F. E. Roper the remains of a 
giant squid washed ashore on the coast of Massachusetts were 
placed on view (January 27-December 31); Dr. Paul Taylor orga- 
nized Royal Gifts from the Kingdom of Thailand (October 22- 
June 1), featuring a selection of gifts presented by Thai monarchs 
to the United States over the past 125 years; and Dr. Roy C. 
Clarke obtained for display a meteorite that had crashed through 
the roof of a home in Wethersfield, Connecticut. 

Exhibitions on the rotunda balcony were From the New World: 
Natural History Etchings and Lithographs by Caroline Thorington 
(October 23-December 19); Black-Tailed Deer: A Life Cycle (De- 
cember 23-February 20); Francis Lee Jaques: Artist-Naturalist 
(March 12-April 24); Paintings of California Flora (May 11-June 
26); and Wildlife Sculptures by Louis Paul Jonas (July 2-Au- 
gust 28). 

Other exhibits were One with the Earth (March 5-December 
31), a survey of contemporary North American Indian art; A 
Permanent Record of India, photographs taken in the nineteenth 
century by the studio of Bourne and Shepherd (August 12- 
December 31); and Black Women: Achievements Against the Odds 
(February 7-28). Two displays were mounted on curatorial re- 
search: Dr. William Fitzhugh: Maritime Archaic Indians-Pioneers 
of the Labrador Coast, and G. Arthur Cooper and Richard E. 
Grant: Mining a Texas Treasure Trove of Fossils. 



84 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Above: Visitors peer at the remains 
of a giant squid, washed ashore on 
the coast of Massachusetts. (Photo- 
graph by Chip Clark) 



This porcelain vase by Ono Hakuko, 
with underglaze-gold-leaf design, was 
in the exhibition Japanese Ceramics 
Today: Masterworks from the Ki- 
kuchi Collection, at the National Mu- 
seum of Natural History. 




OFFICE OF EDUCATION 

Educational activities associated with four special exhibitions in 
the Evans Gallery have enriched visitors' experiences at the mu- 
seum. Ten curatorial lectures and seventeen Friday film programs 
were offered this year, each related to one of the exhibitions. 
Weekend film showings were presented during both the Inua, 
Spirit of the Bering Sea Eskimos and the Japanese Ceramics exhi- 
bitions. For the latter, there were also performances and demon- 
strations by the Koto Consortium and the Urasenke Tea Society. 
Specially trained docents offered group tours as well as walk-in 
tours for the public for the Inua, Japanese Ceramics and Heritage 
of Islam exhibitions. 

The Friday Film and Lecture Series presented, in addition to 
the programs mentioned above, nineteen films related to the per- 
manent exhibitions and seventeen curatorial illustrated lectures, 
the latter on topics ranging from the "Art of the Pacific" to the 
"Bamboos of the World." Three curators gave special lectures on 
the natural history of Washington, D.C., and there were two 
special lectures on the Antarctic, sponsored by the Antarctic 
Society. A total of seventy-six programs were provided without 
charge to the public. 

With the cooperation of the Division of Performing Arts, three 
school demonstration lectures were offered: "Music from the Silk 
Route," "Tukak Teatret: Greenland Inuit Theater," and "Kaze- 
No-Ko," a Japanese dance troupe. Approximately 500 students 
attended each program. 

The Discovery Room continued to serve a large audience of 
family visitors and the Naturalist Center again increased its use 
by museum visitors, amateur societies, and students. A teacher 
open house was held in the fall to introduce high school science 
teachers to the center and its resources, and a new visitor brochure, 
which provides more information on the center, is now being 
mailed to schools, amateur groups, and other organizations. 

About three hundred volunteers each provided 120 hours of 
work for a total of 36,000 hours during the year. Two hundred of 
these volunteers gave more than a thousand school museum lessons 
and public tours, while the other hundred worked in the Discovery 
Room and Naturalist Center. 



86 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



I 
I 



DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 

The role that chemical substances known as pheromones play in 
fish courtship has only recently begun to be investigated by scien- 
tists. Museum ichthyologist Dr. Stanley Weitzman in 1982-83 
investigated a group of fish that has evolved pheromone "pumps" 
in the males. He believes the pumps send forth pheromones that 
evoke positive response in females during courtship. 

These fishes, of the characid subfamily Glandulocaudinae, are 
characterized by a set of specialized scales associated with glandular 
tissue at the base of the male's caudal (tail) fin. The fishes, which 
are widely distributed in the lakes and streams of South and 
Central America, from northern Argentina to Costa Rica, are being 
studied as part of the Smithsonian's Neotropical Lowland Research 
Program, an interdisciplinary project involving anthropologists, 
entomologists, vertebrate zoologists, and terrestrial and marine 
botanists at the museum. 

Weitzman, along with Sara Fink, of the University of Michigan, 
Museum of Zoology, and Dr. Naercio Menezes, of the Museu de 
Zoologia da Universidade de Sao Paulo, have been looking at the 
gland structure, modifications of scales associated with the glands, 
and the nature of the pumping mechanisms among these characids, 
while also studying these fishes' evolutionary relationship. 

Although scientists have maintained and bred about five of the 
approximately fifty species of these small fishes in aquaria, their 
fundamental knowledge about the group's courtship and breeding 
behavior and reproduction is incomplete at best. 

In an effort to learn more, Weitzman is studying the anatomy 
and courtship habits of several of these fishes. One of these, paddle- 
scale tetra (Pterobrycon myrnae), a species discovered in Costa 
Rica in 1973, has an intricate courtship pattern, similar to that 
reported for one other glandulocaudine, the swordtail characin. 

As the courtship of the paddlescale tetra proceeds, the male 
extends two elongate, specialized paddle scales on his side closest 
to the female. Each paddle scale usually is tipped with a large black 
spot and lies along the fish's side. During courtship, the free tips 
of the paddle scal-es usually take on bronze reflections and may 
briefly become entirely bronze or gold as the scales are erected 
and displayed to the female. 



Science I 87 



While extending his paddle scales, the male spreads his dorsal 
and anal fins and beats his tail fin toward the female. Except for 
the beating of his tail, he remains still, holding the position for 
about three seconds. 

Weitzman's anatomical studies show that the modified scales 
and the tail fin form a bellowslike structure that passively acts as 
a pump during tail-beating. The bellows pumps water over the 
glandular surface and then expels it, presumably along with a 
soluble pheromone, in the direction of the female. Weitzman agrees 
with the hypothesis of Keith Nelson, another glandulocaudine 
researcher, formerly at the University of California at Berkeley, 
that the scent of the pheromorte may help to instigate the female's 
positive response to the male. After the tail-beating activity, the 
male and female usually pair, completing their courtship. 

Anatomically, there are a variety of pumping mechanisms in 
glandulocaudine characid fishes, some involving a considerable 
degree of modification of both the muscular and bony structures 
of the tail region. Once these pump structures are documented, 
Weitzman says, field studies will have to be carried out to learn 
more about how the glands function in the life history of these 
fishes. The difficult experimental task of determining how the 
pheromone stimulates a receptive female to further courtship also 
needs to be undertaken in the laboratory, along with histological 
and cytological investigation of the glandular tissue. 

ENTOMOLOGY 

Museum entomologist Dr. Paul J. Spangler in October 1982 pub- 
lished an in-depth bibliography of the aquatic and semiaquatic 
beetles of Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies. This 
work, appearing in both English and Spanish, provides as complete 
a reference guide as possible for limnologists, ecologists, entomolo- 
gists, and other biologists interested in systematic studies of these 
insects. Based on literature widely dispersed in library journals 
throughout the world, the guide compensates for the inadequacy 
of library resources available to many biologists in Mexico, Central 
America, and the West Indies. Among the work's helpful features 
is a discussion of the natural history of each aquatic beetle family, 
placing it in perspective in the world fauna as well as in the regions 
under discussion. The reader is also guided to those works most 



88 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



useful in the identification of specimens, and is informed as to 
which taxa need the attention of systematists. 

This is the second bibhographic guide compiled by Spangler on 
tropical American aquatic beetles. Three years ago he published a 
reference work on the aquatic beetles of South America. A large 
portion of the information in both of these guides is based on his 
personal collecting and research. Over the past twenty years, with 
the assistance of his wife, Phyllis, Spangler has focused his research 
on the American tropics, an area of the world with an immense, 
but (with few exceptions) very poorly known, aquatic beetle fauna. 
He has spent almost five years in the field, working primarily in 
critical areas where it is important to make collections because the 
environment is being rapidly altered by human activities. In the 
process he has amassed more than 400,000 specimens, the largest 
research collection in the world of tropical American aquatic 
beetles and the largest and only significant collection of the imma- 
ture stages of these beetles. These collections now draw numerous 
scholars from throughout the world to the Smithsonian. So far 
several hundred types have been described from the collections, 
and many more specimens are currently under study. In the last 
two years Spangler — in collaboration with Silvia Santiago de 
Bueno from the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico — has 
been concentrating on collecting and studying the riffle (elmid) 
beetles of Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies, a large, 
ecologically important family of beetles found in fast-moving 
streams. 

As adults, the majority of riffle beetles live completely beneath 
the surface of the water without coming up for air, a lifestyle 
made possible by numerous modifications of the plastron method 
of respiration. This fascinating adaptation enables the beetle to 
live in fast-flowing, well-aerated streams with a high oxygen 
content. The plastron — consisting of a fine hairlike, scalelike out- 
growth, forming a shinglelike covering of the body — enables the 
beetle to obtain oxygen by diffusion from the water. Spangler is 
now making detailed scanning electron microscope studies of plas- 
tron modifications, which are useful in assessing phylogenetic 
relationships. 

During 1982-83 Spangler made field trips to Haiti, Cuba, Mex- 
ico, and Honduras, where he made valuable collections of rare and 



Science I 89 



newly discovered elmid beetles (a total of more than 17,000 speci- 
mens were brought back). The trip to Haiti was notable because 
it yielded many specimens of a new genus of eyeless beetles — the 
first ever to be described in the elmid family. 

The museum's Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) Insect Project, funded 
by the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program and headed by Dr. 
Karl V. Krombein, conducted exhaustive faunal surveys from 
1970 to 1981 on the terrestrial and aquatic arthropods of Sri 
Lanka — gathering more than a half million specimens. These 
insects are now being studied by specialists all over the world. 
Dr. Krombein has personally concentrated on the collection and 
biological observations of Sri Lanka's wasps, which were little 
investigated on the island by earlier workers. He has been publish- 
ing taxonomic descriptions and biological observations of this 
material in a revisionary series under the title, Biosystematic 
Studies of Ceylonese Wasps. During 1982-83 he published four 
major new titles in the series, numbers VII, IX, X and, XI, and 
completed for publication in Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology: 
XII, XIII, XIV. In addition, eight collaborators in the United States 
and five other countries have published or have in preparation sys- 
tematic studies of other families or lesser groups of Ceylonese 
wasps. When these studies are published, the wasp fauna of Sri 
Lanka will be much better known than that of any other country 
in the Oriental Zoogeographical Region. 

PALEOBIOLOGY 

One of the earth's newest frontiers in oceanography is the shelf- 
break, that point where the first major change in gradient occurs 
on the outermost edge of the continental shelf. The break, or shelf- 
edge, can be traced for more than 300,000 kilometers along the 
world's continental margins, plateaus, and islands, where it delimits 
the boundary between two principal and well-defined provinces — 
the continental shelf and the slope. Though this unique environ- 
ment has been known for well over two centuries, until recently 
it received surprisingly little specific attention from investigators 
of either the modern ocean or the rock record. But in the past 
several years it has become obvious to scientists that the shelfbreak 
is of the first order of scientific importance. This awareness, com- 
bined with the recent explosion of oil and mineral exploration 



90 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



near and beyond its boundaries, has resulted in unprecedented 
interest in this "frontier." 

In June 1983 the first major scientific volume devoted to the 
shelfbreak was issued, coedited by museum sedimentologist Dr. 
Daniel Jean Stanley, who has been conducting long-term studies 
on how sediments move across the shelfbreak boundary. 

The Shelfbreak: A Critical Interface on Continent Margins, 
edited by Stanley and Dr. George T. Moore, of the Chevron Oil 
Company, was published by the Society of Economic Paleontolo- 
gists and Mineralogists. This multidisciplinary volume, based on 
papers presented at a major international symposium held by 
the society in San Francisco in 1981, includes twenty-eight chap- 
ters on marine geophysics, physical oceanography, sedimentology, 
and marine ecology, written by fifty-seven authorities. 

The book takes into account a large number of basic questions 
that need to be addressed, including: How diverse are the shelf- 
edge configurations on different world margins? What are the 
implications of paleo-shelf breaks recognized in the rock record? 
What are some of the essential factors that influence the flow of 
water masses at the break? To what extent are geotechnical prop- 
erties of sediments at the shelfbreak distinct from shelf or deeper 
water deposits? Is there evidence of a marked faunal change at or 
near the shelfbreak? Are there any economic deposits unique to 
the region of the shelfbreak? How will maritime law as presently 
interpreted affect research and exploration at the shelfbreak? 

Geologist Dr. Ian G. Maclntyre presented a research paper in 
April 1983 at the Annual American Association of Petroleum 
Geologists' Convention in Dallas dealing with recent developments 
in the understanding of the deposition of submarine cements — a 
topic of great interest to oil exploration geologists. At the same 
meeting Maclntyre participated in a two-day workshop at which 
he showed petroleum geologists' drill cores that he obtained on the 
Galeta Reef, Panama. Analysis of this material demonstrates that 
in a post-Pleistocene reef, porosity appears to be best in the central 
section, between the heavily cemented forereef area and the exten- 
sive accumulation of fine sediments in the backreef . Areas of high 
porosity on the fossil reefs are potential reservoirs for oil. 

Dr. Maclntyre and museum colleagues Dr. Frederick Bayer and 
Stephen D. Cairns were among the organizers of the 4th Intema- 



Science I 91 



tional Symposium on the Biology and Ecology of Fossil Cnidaria, 
held at the museum August 7-12, 1983. More than 100 scientists 
from countries all over the world attended these meetings, primarily 
dealing with fossil corals and their relatives and modern analogs. 
The local sponsors of the symposium were the Smithsonian, the 
U.S. Geological Survey, George Washington University, and the 
Paleontological Society of Washington. 

BOTANY 

Based on the culmination of worldwide studies contrasting tropical, 
subtropical, and temperate marine algal communities, botanists 
Mark and Diane Littler in 1982-83 developed a method of using 
large seaweeds as indicators of natural or manmade disturbance 
in marine environments. The key to this discovery is the grouping 
of various algal forms into ecologically meaningful assemblages. 
This novel approach is expected to have important implications for 
establishing future biological monitoring techniques. 

By applying this system, the Littlers report in the Journal of 
Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology, it is possible to predict 
how stable or unstable an environment is by recognizing a relative 
abundance of a plant-form group; conversely, it is also possible 
to predict on the basis of a given environment what plant-forms 
will be present in abundance. 

For example, communities dominated by highly-structured, long- 
lived, complex seaweeds imply environmental constancy or sta- 
bility, while simple sheetlike and filamentous, highly reproductive 
algae indicate unstable habitats. 

One of the advantages of the system is that it will enable 
ecologists to interpret community patterns as well as environmental 
relationships without having to study laboriously the individual 
species. Further, the approach is theoretically applicable anywhere 
the predominant algal abundances are known, without restriction 
as to geological era, habitat, or phylogenetic considerations. 

Lichens — lower plants consisting of algae and fungi — have long 
been known to absorb and retain many pollutants. Because of this 
sensitivity, they are now being used by the National Park Service 
and the U.S. Forest Service in studies to establish air quality stan- 
dards. In 1982-83 Dr. Mason Hale, working under a contract from 
the Forest Service, conducted a study on lichens as "bio-indicators" 



92 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



of air pollution in the Flat Tops Wilderness Area, Colorado. This 
area is near coal-fired generating plants and lies downwind from 
giant shale-oil deposits that are now being developed. After inven- 
torying 137 lichen species in the area. Hale conducted tests to 
establish baseline values of lead, zinc, and other heavy metals and 
sulphur dioxide levels in selected indicator species. He will con- 
tinue the monitoring on a long-term basis to see if any pollution- 
stress appears, building a comparative data base that will be avail- 
able to the Forest Service as a guide for licensing energy-develop- 
ment projects in the Flat Tops region. 

Other highlights of botanical research during the year include: 
the publication by Dr. Richard S. Cowan of volume 4 of Taxonomic 
Literature II, an internationally recognized guide to the literature 
describing plants since 1753, with extensive bibliographic data on 
the authors. The work has been underway since 1973 with re- 
search associate F. A. Stafleu (Utrecht, the Netherlands), and two 
more volumes are under preparation. The current volume covers 
more than 10,000 titles of interest. 

Dr. Dan H. Nicholson was one of the editors of the 1983 Inter- 
national Code of Botanical Nomenclature, a major work that in- 
cludes changes made at the 1981 Botanical Congress in Sydney. 
Dr. Harold Robinson concentrated research on major revisions of 
ten tribes of the large flowering plant family Asteraceae (Com- 
positae). His treatment of the Tribe Liabeae was published during 
the year, while a manuscript was submitted in completion of an 
eighteen-year project on the Tribe Eupatoriaea. The two tribes 
are similar in being mostly or entirely neotropical in distribution 
and in being previously among the most poorly understood in their 
taxonomy and phyletic history. Drs. Dieter Wasshausen, Lyman 
B. Smith, and Roberto M. Klein, completed the Gramineas (Grasses) 
volurnes of the ¥lora Ilustrada Catarinense. This major work repre- 
sents the first completed treatment of the native and introduced 
grasses of southeastern Brazil. The work is expected to be widely 
utilized in Latin American agrostology and agronomy. 

ANTHROPOLOGY 

For more than forty years the museum has been the most active 
center in the United States of forensic anthropology work — a field 
concerned with the identification for law enforcement agencies of 



Science I 93 



bones known to be, or suspected of being, human. Work in this 
area is now carried out primarily by Drs. J. Lawrence Angel and 
Douglas H. Ubelaker, assisted by Stephanie Damadio and Jennifer 
Kelley, These scientists do this work as a free public service, taking 
time off from their normal osteological research on ancient and 
modern human skeletons. 

A new box of bones, which can contain anything from a com- 
plete skeleton to tiny fragments, arrives for analysis almost every 
week. In 1982-83 Dr. Ubelaker worked on twenty-eight cases 
submitted through the FBI Laboratories while Dr. Angel analyzed 
twenty additional cases from other law enforcement agencies. 

Their first task usually is to determine if the bones are really 
human and how much time has elapsed since death. Stature is 
calculated by the use of formulas derived from documented skeletal 
material. The age of the individual can be estimated by patterns 
of tooth development or arm or leg growth. The sex of an adult 
skeleton can usually be determined by the structure of the pelvis. 
An effort is made to find anything about the individual that might 
be unique, especially evidence of past medical problems. Finally, 
a check is made to see if there are signs of foul play, such as the 
crushing or breaking of bone, knifemarks, and damage character- 
istic of bullets. After completing a meticulous study. Angel and 
Ubelaker provide a physical description that can evolve into a 
composite sketch of a missing person or crime victim. 

Dr. Angel's normal research during the year included the con- 
tinuation of his studies of fragmentary Upper Paleolithic and Neo- 
lithic human skeletal remains from the Greek coastal area Franch- 
thi. He is studying the interrelationships of health, nutrition, and 
culture in these ancient peoples. Dr. Ubelaker conducted field 
research on ancient human skeletal materials excavated at the 
coastal site of Salango, Ecuador. He also completed, for publica- 
tion, a literature synthesis on the biological history of the Ameri- 
can Indians north of Mexico. 

Dr. T. Dale Stewart, Physical Anthropologist Emeritus, began 
studies in April 1983 of an ancient human skeleton discovered by 
Dr. Fred Wendorf, of Southern Methodist University, at Wadi 
Kubbaniya, a desolate region in Egypt's western desert, on the 
west side of the Nile, below the Aswan Dam. This project, funded 
by the National Science Foundation, the National Geographic 



94 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Dr. J. Lawrence Angel and assistant Jennifer Kelley examine a limb bone as 
part of the work performed by the National Museum of Natural History in 
the field of forensic anthropology. (Photograph by Vic Krantz) 



Society, and the Smithsonian's Foreign Currency Program, in 
collaboration with the Egyptian Antiquities Organization, focused 
on the task of freeing the bones of the buried skeleton from a 
matrix of sandstone — a project that required tools and expertise 
not available in Egypt. By October 1983 the bones had been ex- 
tracted, casts completed, and the front of the skull reconstructed. 
On the basis of late Paleolithic artifacts present in the matrix. Dr. 
Wendorf estimated the age of the buried skeleton as not more 
than 20,000 years. Following the conclusion of the study the 
skeleton will be returned to Egypt. 

During his tenth season of field work at Tell Jemeh, in Israel's 
western Negev Desert, museum archeologist Dr. Gus Van Beek 
in 1982-83 excavated an unusual, thick deposit of debris with a 
great variety and quantity of artifacts stemming from the end of 
the Middle Bronze II period (early sixteenth century B.C.). Included 
among the objects was a unique Tell el-Yehudieyeh-ware vessel 
in the shape of a bull or gazelle, dating from the seventeenth or 
sixteenth century b.c. 

The dark brownish-gray pot, a large part of it excavated in a 
single piece, has a trumpet-foot base and a head and face decorated 
by incisions and punctures filled with white paint. Near this piece, 
excavators found two clay eyeballs from the face and parts of a 
pouring spout from the top of the head. 

Tell el-Yehudieyeh ware was first identified by archeologists 
around the turn of the century at a site bearing that name in the 
delta of Egypt. Later finds have established the ware as pottery 
produced in the area now known as the Levant during the eigh- 
teenth through sixteenth centuries B.C., although it is possible that 
this type of vessel, found most frequently in the form of small 
jugs, also was manufactured in Egypt during the same period. 
Vessels in the form of animals are rare — only two known to be 
from Israel have been discovered, one in the shape of a fish and 
the other in the form of a human head. 

Other interesting finds made by Van Beek included a vast num- 
ber of bowls of diverse shapes, many of them shallow and suitable 
for eating, ten mud bottle or jar sealings with impressions of 
Egyptian scarabs, and an unusually large amount of animal bones. 
The deposit, contained within a large room, suggests that the area 
or adjacent structure may have been a public eating place, an 



96 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



establishment without obvious parallel in ancient Israel. The re- 
construction of the pottery from this deposit is now in progress 
at the museum. More than fourteen vessels are virtually complete 
and more than forty others are in various stages of completion. 
Other archeological work during 1982-83 included a pioneering 
field survey conducted by Dr. William Fitzhugh in the Strait of 
Belle Isle region where Labrador Inuit are known historically to 
have settled periodically and to have had contacts with Europeans 
and Indians from the late-sixteenth century to the nineteenth cen- 
tury. Searching for remains of sites where the Inuit may have 
lived, traveling by boat, Fitzhugh's survey team concentrated on 
certain key areas on the northern tip of Newfoundland. There, on 
the extreme tip of Quirpon Island, the team made the most im- 
portant find of the season, what may be the houses of the Inuits 
reported by Sir Joseph Banks in 1766. Banks was the first English 
scientist to document the natural history of Labrador and New- 
foundland extensively, and the first English explorer to take an 
interest in describing this region's native peoples. The location of 
the site, and the architecture, suggest that it was of Inuit con- 
struction, and eighteenth-century European artifacts recovered 
there by Fitzhugh are what might be expected in an area where 
there was trade going on between Inuit and Europeans. The site 
will require full excavation in the future to confirm this hypothesis. 
It could prove to be the first Inuit habitation ever found in New- 
foundland. 

MINERAL SCIENCES 

Museum volcanologist Dr. William G. Melson in April 1983 dis- 
covered what appears to be a new "hotspot" at 15° N on the 
mid-Atlantic Ridge. Hotspots are centers of "excess" volcanic 
activity that produce ocean islands and submarine elevations. Some 
scientists see hotspots— which occur at places along most sea-floor 
spreading centers — as a driving mechanism for plate tectonics. 

Melson discovered the new hotspot while mapping the chem- 
istry of glassy lava dredged at 15° N by a National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration vessel. For the past ten years more 
than 6,000 samples of volcanic glass dredged and drilled from the 
mid-Atlantic Ridge and the Indian and Pacific sea floor have under- 
gone electronic microprobe analysis at the museum. This Smith- 



Science / 97 



sonian Volcanic Glass Project, run by Melson in collaboration with 
Timothy J. O'Hearn, is identifying broad regional variations in 
abyssal volcanic rocks and improving the understanding of many 
processes of sea-floor spreading. 

The 15° N hotspot is situated about 900 miles east of the West 
Indies and gives evidence of being active for a long time. The 
most recent volcanic feature it has produced is an elevation that 
rises to within 2,000 meters of the ocean surface. Older ridges 
produced by the same hotspot appear to be located to the east 
and west. 

Four hotspots were previously known on the northern-half of 
the mid-Atlantic Ridge — the Sierra Leone hotspot, the Azores hot- 
spot, the Iceland hotspot, and the Jan Mayen hotspot. 

All of the mid-Atlantic Ridge islands and submarine elevations 
are composed of volcanic rocks that have trace and radiogenic 
isotopic characteristics distinctively different from those of lavas 
erupted elsewhere along the ridge at greater depth. The analysis 
of the 15° N lava revealed a high abundance of potassium, data 
interpreted by Melson as a reflection of hotspot activity at 15° N 
in a paper published by the Geological Society of America's Decade 
of North American Geology Series. The analysis of glassy lavas 
recovered by the French in the same area corroborates the Melson 
data. 

Krakatau's 1883 eruption is perhaps the most famous volcanic 
catastrophe in recorded history. The gigantic explosions were heard 
3,000 miles away and the associated sea waves caused the death 
of more than 30,000 people. The impact of the event on the world, 
and its importance to science, were reviewed and analyzed in a 
new book by museum volcanologists Dr. Tom Simkin and Dr. 
Richard Fiske. Krakatau 1883 — the Volcanic Eruption and Its 
Effects was published by the Smithsonian Institution Press on the 
occasion of the hundredth anniversary of the eruption. The book 
compiles eyewitness accounts, first-time translations of early Dutch 
reports, selected scientific interpretations of the various phenomena, 
plus rare illustrations of the eruption and its effects. 

In the book Simkin and Fiske suggest that the timing of the 
event was largely responsible for its fame. It occurred just a few 
years after the first undersea telegraph cables revolutionized world 
communications. People at great distances from the eruption 



98 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



learned swiftly about what had happened and then were able to 
relate it to distant effects such as the far-traveled waves or the 
remarkable sunsets that occurred around the globe. "The world 
quickly learned that the impacts of large geophysical events are 
global, and that they demonstrate the interdependence of land, 
sea, and air. Krakatau 1883 remains today a classic geophysical 
event with much yet to teach us about our world," Simkin and 
Fiske write. 

For discussions of the event's scientific importance, Simkin and 
Fiske in August 1983 joined more than 230 other scientists from 
different fields and nations in Indonesia at a special centennial 
symposium on Krakatau. 

INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY 

In March 1983 the museum launched a pioneering international 
collaborative marine study of Aldabra, one of the world's most 
remarkable coral atolls. This western Indian Ocean Seychelle atoll, 
composed of four main islands and countless islets, enclosing a 
shallow lagoon, is considered one of the most scientifically interest- 
ing atolls in the world oceans. It is remote and inhospitable to 
man, with practically no fresh water and no deep-water anchorage, 
and as a result its wildlife, including a colony of 150,000 giant 
tortoises, flightless birds, plants, insects, coral reefs, and fish have 
survived as part of a unique ecological system. Plans to build an 
airstrip on the island were thwarted in 1966 by worldwide protests 
from conservation and research organizations, led in Great Britain 
by the Royal Society and in the United States by the Smithsonian. 
Since that time the Royal Society has mounted a systematic pro- 
gram of research on the atoll, joined now by the Smithsonian, 
which has begun a five-year study focused on achieving a better 
understanding of the marine ecosystems of the island, especially 
those of the lagoon and its fringes. 

Six museum staff members — led by Dr. Brian Kensley — made 
the first of a series of planned annual visits to the island in 
March. The group spent two weeks on the island making large 
collections of algae, molluscs, crustaceans, echinoderms, sponges, 
and corals for taxonomic studies. These plants and animals, largely 
ignored in the past, make up a large part of the base of the island's 
food chain. Behavioral and ecological studies were also initiated. 



Science I 99 



The studies should help considerably in enlarging the scientific 
understanding of the distributions of organisms in the western 
Indian Ocean and adjacent regions, and by enlarging our knowl- 
edge of the diversity of life on the atoll, help protect this unique 
environment, as pressures increase for its exploitation. Dr. Clyde 
F. E. Roper is Project Principal Investigator. The project was orga- 
nized by C. W. Hart, Jr. 

The eastern end of the island of Bermuda has more than 150 
limestone caves, most of them having connections to the sea. Some 
of the larger caves have been opened for public tours, but many 
are either too small or so inaccessible that they are seldom if ever 
entered. Now museum researchers exploring these caves have dis- 
covered a number of previously unknown crustaceans living in 
this unusual environment. 

Dr. Thomas Bowman, in collaboration with Dr. Thomas Iliffe 
of the Bermuda Laboratory, have recently described a new genus 
and species of cirolanid isopod from the cave system, the closest 
relative of which is a recently described isopod from the subter- 
ranean waters of Aruba. The same authors are describing a small 
crustacean that belongs to the suborder Peracarida, but which can- 
not be placed in any of the seven presently recognized orders. A 
new order will be proposed for it, constituting an action of major 
significance in crustacean systematics. 

In addition, the museum's C. W. Hart, Jr., and Raymond B. 
Manning have described a new genus of hipplytid shrimp, a new 
species of atyid shrimp, and established new records for several 
other shrimps. The relationships of several of the species and their 
allies are puzzling: the closest relative of one is known only from 
Ascension Island in the south central Atlantic; one is probably 
related to a shrimp known only from Antigua; still another, with 
its cousin from the eastern Atlantic and the Indo-West Pacific, 
may be a relic derived from stocks that inhabited the former 
Tethys Sea some 200 million years ago. 

Iliffe, together with Hart and Manning, published a paper in the 
March 10, 1983, issue-of Nature, outlining their hypotheses con- 
cerning the origins of the cave shrimp fauna and postulating that 
a geothermal temperature gradient, observed as shallow as thirty 
meters below sea level on Bermuda, may have maintained water 
temperatures in some caves high enough to protect certain groups 

100 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



during the periods of Pleistocene glaciation. Related cave studies 
are now underway by these scientists in the Bahamas and the 
Turks and Caicos Islands. 



SMITHSONIAN OCEANOCRAPHIC SORTING CENTER 

Major collections coming to the Sorting Center during 1982-83 
included fishes from Fiji; benthic invertebrates from Guam, Oki- 
nawa, and the Antarctic; and marine algae from the Philippines. 
The Philippine seaweeds and seagrasses were collected from along 
the northern coast by Dr. Ernani Menez while on a visit to the 
northern Philippines to conduct a seaweed workshop. A new three- 
year Antarctic Sorting Contract with the National Science Foun- 
dation was negotiated for th^ center by Betty Landrum. 



HANDBOOK OF NORTH AMERICAN INDIANS 

Southwest-10, the companion volume to Southwest-9, was pub- 
lished in September 1983. It is the fifth volume to appear in the 
twenty-volume Handbook series on the prehistory, history, ethnol- 
ogy, and linguistics of the Native North Americans. This volume 
contains fifty-six articles about the non-Pueblo peoples of the 
Southwest, including the Yuman, Pima, Papago, Navajo, and 
Apache peoples. The first Southwest volume (9), on the Pueblos, 
was published in 1980. Editing and typesetting have been com- 
pleted on the Arctic (volume 5), scheduled for publication in late 
1984. Research and editing on the Basin (volume 11) are under- 
way. All published Handbook volumes are in print with more than 
50,000 copies sold. The Handbook series is under the general edi- 
torship of the museum's William C. Sturtevant. 



INVENTORY 

The museum's comprehensive collection inventory was completed 
as planned in June 1983. Item-by-item inventories were compiled 
for all valuable specimens and types, and many specimens going 
to the Museum Support Center. The remainder of the collections 
were inventoried in batches. All the data are on a computer and 
are retrievable for scholarly or management purposes. Inventory 



Science I 101 



data are being used extensively to plan and conduct the move to 
the support center. Inventory work is now focusing on maintain- 
ing the lists and on reconciling past records with the inventory 
lists to discover and resolve discrepancies. 

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR 

Pilot automated-registration systems have been established for the 
museum's mineral, fish, birds, mammals, reptile, and botany col- 
lections. Some 1,515 incoming loans and 1,585 accessions were pro- 
cessed during the year. Registrar Margaret Santiago observed regis- 
tration systems at the Arizona State Museum, the Denver Museum 
of Natural History, and the Los Angeles County Museum of Na- 
tural History. 

BUILDING IMPROVEMENTS 

Steady progress was made in improving the museum's fire protec- 
tion systems. The installation of complete fire detection and sup- 
pression systems continued in the nonpublic areas of the main 
building. 

SMITHSONIAN MARINE STATION AT LINK PORT 

The multibureau cooperative research program initiated in 1981 
at the Smithsonian Marine Station under the administrative direc- 
tion of the National Museum of Natural History increased in vigor 
and scope during 1982-83. More than twenty-four Smithsonian 
scientists and their colleagues from several institutions participated 
in projects, utilizing the wide variety of habitats and the diversity 
of marine flora and fauna in the vicinity of the station. 

Dr. David L. Pawson, National Museum of Natural History, 
and Dr. Gordon Hendler, Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting 
Center, have been collaborating on echinoderm studies with John 
E. Miller of Harbor Branch Foundation, Inc. Using the research 
submersible Johnson-Sea-Link I, Pawson and Miller have been 
following the distribution of the sea cucumber Holothuria lentigi- 
nosa enodis associated with an Oculina coral reef nineteen miles 
offshore from the Smithsonian Marine Station in ninety meters of 

102 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



water. They have found that these populations of Holothuria are 
capable of moving considerable distances. This movement does not 
appear to be correlated with the direction of the prevailing Gulf 
Stream currents, but is most influenced by the organic content of 
the sediment. Hendler and Miller have collected more than seventy 
species of deepwater (30-600 meters) echinoderms off east-central 
Florida and West End, Grand Bahama Island, using the sub- 
mersible's mechanical manipulator. Underwater video cameras are 
used to document natural behavior, and colorplates of all species 
collected are made in the shipboard laboratory for a permanent 
photo record. As a result of these cruises, a study of the feeding 
behavior of Asteroporpa annulata, a basket star with unbranched 
arms, has been completed, and the description of a new species of 
brittle star, genus Ophioderma, is underway. 

Karen Barrett, a graduate student at Johns Hopkins University, 
under the direction of Dr. Martin A. Buzas, museum paleobiolo- 
gist, has been investigating the burrowing behavior of foramini- 
fera and has documented her findings with the aid of Smithsonian 
biological film producer Kjell Sandved. Buzas and Kenneth P. 
Severin, former research assistant at the marine station and cur- 
rently a doctoral student at the University of California at Davis, 
published a comprehensive study on the distribution and sys- 
tematics of the foraminifera of the Indian River, Florida. A total 
of 17,348 individual forams representing ninety-four species were 
collected in the survey. 

The resident science program, under the direction of Mary E. 
Rice, continued its emphasis on life history studies of marine in- 
vertebrates. In developmental studies of sipunculan worms, obser- 
vations were made for the first time on two species with highly 
modified development, Sipunculus nudus and Phascolopsis gouldi, 
contributing important information for phylogenetic interpretations 
and an understanding of life history patterns of the group. These 
and other comparative developmental studies on sipunculans were 
reviewed in a paper on developmental evidence by phylogenetic 
inference presented in a symposium organized by the Systematics 
Association in London on "Origins and Relationships of Lower 
Invertebrates." A collaborative project with Edward Ruppert, a 
former postdoctoral fellow in the life histories program and now 
associate professor at Clemson University, resulted in a publica- 



Science I 103 



tion on ultrastructure of terminal organs of sipunculan larvae, 
which related structure to life history patterns and species dis- 
persal. 



MUSEUM SUPPORT CENTER 

Secretary Ripley, assisted by Smithsonian Regent Norman Mineta 
and key officials of the Institution, officiated at a ceremony dedi- 
cating the Museum Support Center on May 16, 1983. After more 
than a decade of planning and two years of construction, the 
facility at Suitland, Maryland, is expected to be ready for full 
operation in 1984. It has been designed to provide modern, effi- 
cient, and effective collections storage and laboratory space to 
serve the needs of the National Museum of Natural History, the 
National Museum of American History, the Conservation Analyti- 
cal Laboratory, and other units and organizations of the Smith- 
sonian. Metcalf/KCF served as architects for the center; the 
George Hyman Construction Company was the builder. 

Given the mission of the center — the long-term preservation of 
museum objects — special attention was paid to problems of envi- 
ronmental control, security, and collections inventory. The environ- 
mental control system was designed to maintain a constant interior 
temperature of 70° F ± 2°, and humidity of 50% RH ± 2%, re- 
gardless of exterior conditions and interior activity. The center is 
equipped with an air infiltration system to minimize potential dust 
problems, and a large fumigation facility for pest control. An elab- 
orate electronic security system has been designed to provide con- 
trolled access within the building. A fully automated information 
management system is in place to provide inventory control of all 
collections. Reporting to the Director of the Museum of Natural 
History, the center's director, Vincent Wilcox, supervises person- 
nel working in administration, data management, shipping/receiv- 
ing, the coordination of collections management activities, and 
facilities management. 

Construction of a three-level storage system began in 1983 and 
will be phased over the next several years. Beginning with the 
completion of the first phase of this storage equipment, the move 
of collections into the center is expected to take at least three 
years to accomplish. 



104 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



National Zoological Park 

In fiscal year 1983 the National Zoological Park (nzp) continued 
its commitment to education, science, recreation, and conservation 
through animal exhibits, symposia, publications, research with the 
collections, and ongoing research and breeding of endangered 
species. 

CONSTRUCTION 

The newly renovated Small Mammal House and the new Monkey 
Island were opened in April 1983; Dr. Theodore H. Reed wel- 
comed the public to the exhibits and took that festive occasion to 
announce his retirement as director of the National Zoological 
Park. 

The preliminary planning for the reconstruction of approxi- 
mately .8 mile of Olmsted Walk began in January 1983. This 
project, which will preserve and enhance the natural and historic 
character of the Zoo, is to include a series of small exhibits along 
the walk designed to complement the major exhibit areas. 

Renovation of the Elephant and Monkey houses started in Feb- 
ruary 1983, with completion scheduled for late fall. The changes 
will provide better facilities for animal handling by the keepers 
and viewing by the public. 

At the Conservation and Research Center (crc) construction 
was completed in August 1983 of approximately four miles of 
high-tension fence to aid in controlling the white-tailed deer. Also 
completed was the design of two major projects: the second phase 
of the Small Animal Facility and the Veterinary Hospital. Con- 
struction of both was scheduled to start in October 1983. The 
Veterinary Hospital will include X-ray and surgical rooms, labora- 
tories, a pharmacy, animal wards, and necropsy, administrative, 
and storage areas. 

ANIMAL COLLECTION AND EXHIBITS 

July 21, 1983, marked the birth of the first Giant Panda in the 
United States. While the cub, a male, did not survive, this most 
significant birth of an endangered mammal species renewed the 
Zoo's hope for future successful births. Additional endangered 



Science I 105 





Above: Dr. Theodore Reed (left) and 
Assistant Secretary for Science David 
Challinor officiated at the opening of 
the renovated Small Mammal House 
at the National Zoo on April 1, 1983. 



Fennec Fox is the theme animal for 
the Small Mammal House. 



mammal species born were: golden lion tamarins, maned wolves, 
scimitar horned oryx, orangutan, bongo, clouded leopards, Geof- 
frey's cat, potoroo, hammerhead bat, zorillas, and Pere David's 
deer. Other major mammal births were elephant shrew (the 300th 
born to the collection, representing the seventh generation), spider 
monkeys, Barbary macaques, dwarf mongoose, sugar gliders, 
degues, red kangaroos. Reeve's muntjacs, and bobcats. 

Notable first-time hatchings and births in the Department of 
Herpetology were Gila monsters, leopard tortoise, green tree and 
ball pythons. Long-term breeding programs with the red-footed 
tortoise, water dragon, leopard and giant day geckoes, and the 
emerald tree and Brazilian rainbow boas continued to be success- 
ful, with multiple births or hatchings by each species (fifty-nine 
baby Brazilian rainbow boas). 

Through cooperative programs with other zoos, the Department 
of Ornithology enjoyed notable hatchings of the following species: 
common hoopoe (cooperative exchange with the Ramat Gan Zoo, 
Tel Aviv); satin bowerbirds (from Australia through cooperative 
effort with Dr. Gerald Borgia, University of Maryland); and red- 
crowned cranes (acquired from the Rotterdam Zoo, the Nether- 
lands). 

Major acquisitions and animal-related events during the year 
include the following: fifteen golden lion tamarins assembled from 
seven different zoos for shipment to Brazil as part of a reintro- 
duction project; fifteen sable antelopes from four collections 
brought to CRC, beginning a major new breeding herd; a trio of 
Mongolian wild horses arriving at crc as part of the North Ameri- 
can Mongolian wild horse program; a pair of young bald eagles 
presented to President Reagan and the American people by the 
Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in commemoration 
of the 200th anniversary of the selection of the bald eagle as the 
central figure of the great seal of the United States. Charles Pickett, 
collection manager of the Department of Ornithology, observed 
and collected birds in the Central Highlands, Papua New Guinea, 
in a joint expedition with other zoological parks. 

RESEARCH 

Dr. Eugene Morton completed the fifth, and last, year of studying 
the Kentucky warbler breeding population at crc. This warbler 



Science I 107 




This Common Zebra, born May 6, 1983, was one of the many mammals 
born at the National Zoo during the year. Especially important animal 
births included those of such endangered species as maned wolves, golden 
lion tamarins, orangutan, scimitar horned oryx, clouded leopards, bongo, 
Geoffrey's cat, hammerhead bat, potoroo, zorillas, and Pere David's deer. 



species is an indicator of the effects of tropical forest destruction 
on a migratory bird that breeds in North America. Only about 25 
percent of the adults are returning — a figure lower than necessary 
for population maintenance. Dr. Morton, with Dr. Russell Green- 
berg and Judy Gradwohl, also completed a seven-year study of 
insectivorous bird populations on Barro Colorado Island in 
Panama. 

Continuing studies included the following: Dr. John Seiden- 
sticker's radio-tracking laboratory at crc, which also cooperated 
with Dr. Rasanayagam Rudran's successful conservation course 
instructing nine students from Latin America, Indonesia, and 
Nepal; Dr. Greenberg's studies of foraging behavior development 
in captive warblers, concentrating on species with extreme forag- 
ing specialization; Dr. Otto Sieber's studies of the function and 
development of raccoon vocalizations; Drs. Sieber and G. Peters's 
joint efforts to compare communication systems of carnivores; Dr. 
Katherine Ralls's studies of California sea otter; Wolfgang P. J. 
Dittus and Anne Baker-Dittus's long-term study of primates in Sri 
Lanka; and Dr. John Frazier's study of the biology and conserva- 
tion of sea turtles. 

New research begun this year included: Dr. Theodore Grand's 
postdoctoral fellowship study of the anatomy of golden lion tama- 
rins in relation to motion and ontogeny; Dr. John Gittleman's 
study of the behavior of red pandas; Dr. Ralls's organization of a 
genetics program for nzp (she will be sponsoring the first genetics 
conference at crc next year); Dr. Ralls and Jon Ballou's consulta- 
tion with Alan Templeton on genetics-management techniques for 
small populations; Dr. Morton's writing of a book entitled Sound 
Size Symbolism and the Evolution of Animal Vocal Communica- 
tion, in addition to studying avian vocal communication with the 
assistance of Kim Young; collection manager Miles Roberts's be- 
ginning of a comparative study of marsupial vocalizations; re- 
search associates Drs. Jim Hallett and Margaret O'Connell's 
studies of marsupial behavior and the ecology of small mammal 
populations at crc with Dr. Seidensticker. 

Dr. Dale Marcellini went to Cuba to continue his Anolis study 
and Drs. Daryl Boness and Olav Oftedal traveled to California to 
continue studying California sea lions. Drs. Christen M. Wemmer 
and Benjamin B. Beck edited and published a book. The Biology 



Science / 109 



and Management of an Extinct Species: Fere David's Deer, Dr. 
Ralls represented the Department of Zoological Research (dzr) at 
the International Ethological Conference in Australia. Research 
associate James Dietz went to Brazil to initiate a study of the behav- 
ioral ecology of golden lion tamarins and to start an educational 
program on the conservation of those tamarins in Brazil. Dr. Tom 
Jenssen began a sabbatical at nzp to work on a book with Dr. 
Marcellini, and Dr. Martin Nicole began a postdoctoral fellowship 
with Dr. Edwin Gould. Dr. Morton studied migrant birds in the 
Yucatan with Dr. James Lynch of the Smithsonian Environmental 
Research Center. 

Associates leaving dzr included Susan Farabaugh, who com- 
pleted her Ph.D. at the University of Maryland, and Kent Red- 
ford, who completed his Ph.D. at Harvard University and is now 
working at the University of Florida. Farabaugh published the main 
part of her thesis in the book Evolution and Ecology of Avian 
Vocal Communication, published by Academic Press. Dr. Morton 
also contributed a chapter to this book. Dr. Nancy Muckenhern is 
continuing her association with dzr and Dr. Stephen Thompson 
has joined the department to study marsupial physiology with Drs. 
Nicole, Hallett, and O'Connell, and Miles Roberts. 

PUBLIC INFORMATION AND EDUCATION 

The HERplab project, science education for families, funded by the 
National Science Foundation, moved into its third year of develop- 
ment. Located in the reptile and amphibian building, the HERplab 
was opened to the public in October 1982. Temporary labs were 
set up at two other zoos, the John Ball Zoological Gardens in 
Grand Rapids, Michigan, and the Philadelphia Zoological Garden, 
where copies of the HERplab educational materials could be tested 
with the public. Extensive evaluation conducted at all three sites 
included in-depth visitor interviews and questionnaires. Efforts to 
disseminate the results of the project involved a workshop for zoo 
educators after the annual meeting of the American Association of 
Zoological Parks and Aquariums in Vancouver, B.C.; talks in 
Canberra and Melbourne, Australia; and articles in various pub- 
lications. 

The Collaborative Outreach Project (with education staffs of 
the Museum of Natural History and Museum of American Art) 



110 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



began a new phase. The object-based programs, which were for- 
merly taken to nursing homes and hospitals, have been redesigned 
and revised for wider distribution on a loan basis to staffs at com- 
munity institutions. 

New school programs included a prototype workshop on zoos 
and conservation biology for secondary school teachers and the 
addition of a video-taped workshop on zoo conservation training. 
Continuing school programs include the multivisit fourth-grade 
program, "Zoo Animals, A Closer Look," and a wide variety of 
single-visit tours. 

Continuing programs for the general zoo visitor include the 
winter series of "Sunday Afternoons at the National Zoo" and the 
special June-week events of "Summerfest." 

ADMINISTRATION 

After twenty-five years as director of the National Zoological Park, 
Dr. Theodore H. Reed assumed new duties as senior adviser for 
Zoological Park Management effective April 3, 1983. On the same 
date Dr. Christen M. Wemmer, who served as curator-in-charge of 
the Conservation and Research Center, became acting director until 
a search committee chaired by Dr. David Challinor recommends a 
new director. 

Also on April 3, 1983, Dr. Devra G. Kleiman became acting 
assistant director for Animal Programs, allowing Dr. Dale L. 
Marcellini to resume duties as curator of the Department of Herpe- 
tology. Dr. Katherine S. Ralls will serve as acting scientist-in- 
charge and head of the Department of Zoological Research until 
a permanent assistant director for Animal Programs is appointed. 

FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO 

The Friends of the National Zoo (fonz) continued to assist nzp 
in education, science, recreation, and services to the public. A prin- 
cipal part of the fonz contribution consists of a core of well- 
trained, educated guides who volunteer their time during the week 
and on weekends. Many of them spend numerous hours at nzp, 
working in all areas. A major volunteer effort occurred during the 
pregnancy of the giant panda Ling-Ling. Some ninety fonz volun- 
teers logged well over 1,000 hours during the round-the-clock 



Science I 111 



watch. Many additional hours were given to the hand-rearing of 
animal infants needing human help. 

FoNZ continues to provide the bus program that is so popular 
with the District of Columbia elementary classes. In addition, 
FONZ has sponsored science programs by financing research proj- 
ects, field trips, and the research traineeship and postdoctoral pro- 
grams. 

Financial information for calendar year 1982 is detailed below. 
In addition, a percentage of the restaurant and parking concessions 
is available to the Smithsonian for the benefit of the National Zoo 
and is reported as income in the Financial Report of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 



FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO 

Financial Report for the Period 

January 1-December 31, 1982 

[In $l,OOOs] 



FUND BALANCE @ 1/1/82 . . 
SERVICES 

Membership 

Publications 

Education^ 

Zoo Services ^ 

Totals 

FUND BALANCE @ 12/31/82 







Net increase/ 






(di 


'.crease) to 


Net revenue 


Expenses 


fund balance 








$1,081 


$ 465 


$ 432 




33 


101 


133 




(32) 


77 


532 




(455) 


3,144 


2,538' 
$3,635 




606 


$3,787 


$ 152 






$1,233* 



^ Excludes services worth an estimated $234,758 contributed by FONZ volunteers. 
^ Includes gift shops, parking services, and food services. 

* Includes $276,054 paid during this period to the Smithsonian Institution under contractual 
arrangement. 

* Net worth, including fixed assets, to be used for the benefit of educational and scientific 
work at the National Zoological Park. 



112 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



The Office of Biological Conservation 



The original aims of the Office of Biological Conservation (obc) — 
to stimulate public and staff interest in issues of biological con- 
servation and to serve as a source of information to a wide audience 
on natural resource issues — were achieved in 1983. As a result of 
greater involvement by the science bureaus of the Smithsonian in 
this subject area, the necessity for duplicating this service centrally 
ceased. As a result, the obc was terminated on July 15 and its 
employees were assigned to other activities. 

In carrying out its mandate before termination, the office pro- 
duced four issues of a Biological Conservation Newsletter, edited 
by Jane Lamlein. The obc also continued its role in supporting the 
Charles Darwin Foundation for the Galapagos Isles, and the pro- 
gram manager participated in the forty-second meeting of the 
foundation at the Royal Society in London on December 9-10, 
1982. As an outgrowth of the meeting, the office provided logisti- 
cal support for the foundation's endowment drive. 

Work continued on a contract from the International Conven- 
tion Advisory Commission to provide detailed illustrations of ten 
plant species (seven Mexican cacti, three American pitcher plants) 
which are frequently encountered in international trade. Pictures 
and descriptions of the plants will be included in the United States 
identification manual, for use by customs inspectors at designated 
ports of entry enforcing the Convention on International Trade in 
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. 

From March 8 to 14, 1983, the director conducted field work in 
the Tai National Forest of the Ivory Coast, the last remaining 
viable stand of primary rain forest in the country. The Ivory Coast 
was chosen for in-depth study by the iucn-wwf Tropical Forests 
Campaign because of the diversity of species in the ecosystem, 
the increasing threats to its stability, and the potential for achiev- 
ing long-term conservation goals. Dr. Balla Kieta, minister of 
scientific research and chairman of the Man and the Biosphere 
Program of UNESCO, arranged the trip to assist the director in 
making recommendations on the delimitation of park boundaries 
and buffer zones to avoid commercial forestry and industrial 
development. 



Science I 113 



At the World National Parks Conference, held in Bali, Indonesia, 
on October 11-14, 1982, the director presented a keynote address 
on "The Afrotropical Realm," stressing the need for integration of 
biological conservation with human concerns and development in 
Africa, in keeping with the conference theme of "National Parks 
in a Changing World." The director attended, on October 4-6, 
1982, the fifty-eighth meeting of the iucn's Species Survival Com- 
mission in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, during which a symposium 
was held concerning conservation problems in the tropical forests 
of Southeast Asia. 

"Preservation of Genetic Resources" was the subject of a paper 
delivered by the director in November 1982 at the International 
Scientific Conference on Environmental Research and Manage- 
ment Priorities for the 1980s held at the Royal Swedish Academy 
of Sciences, Stockholm. 

Approximately one-third of the vast African continent suffers 
from the hazards of desertification; this situation was discussed 
by the director in a paper entitled "Desertification in Africa — the 
Lessons It Provides for Arid and Semi-Arid Regions," presented at 
the Centennial Symposium on Plants: Renewable Resources held 
February 14-15, 1983, at the University of Texas, Austin. 

On February 22-25, 1983, the director attended an International 
Convocation for World Environmental Regeneration at the Rene 
Dubos Center for Human Environment in New York City, at which 
he presented a keynote paper on "Developmental and Environ- 
mental Conflicts," noting that economic development in many 
countries is accelerating the overexploitation of natural resources. 

A number of tropical plant species having medicinal properties 
are becoming endangered as a result of mass collecting for the 
drug trade in their natural habitats. This situation was discussed 
by the director in a paper on "Application of Herbs in Modern 
Medicines and Their Significance to Third World Economies," de- 
livered at a symposium on "The Contribution of Herbs of the 
Third World to World Health," held in Munich on June 16, 1983. 
While in Germany, he also lectured on United States and Smith- 
sonian plant conservation efforts to audiences in Nuremberg and 
Regensburg. 

The integration of conservation measures in the economic ex- 
pansion plans of developing countries, using the most environ- 

114 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



mentally sound technologies, is of increasing importance to many 
governments. To this end, the director served on a panel dis- 
cussion on the "Integrated Application of Emerging and Tradi- 
tional Technologies for Development/' convened at the Inter- 
national Rice Research Institute, Los Banos, Philippines, on Decem- 
ber 13-16, 1982. The director also presented a paper on "Third 
World Nations and Technological Innovations: A View Toward 
the 21st Century and Beyond" to an international seminar held 
October 29, 1982, at the University of New Hampshire, Durham. 

Ojfice of Fellowships and Grants 

The Office of Fellowships and Grants (ofg) continues to serve as 
a Smithsonian link with scholarly organizations throughout the 
world. It encourages research at universities, museums, and re- 
search organizations in the fields of art, history, and science. The 
office brings scientists and scholars to all parts of the Institution 
to utilize the unique resources available, as well as to interact 
with the professional staff. At present, two major activities are 
managed and developed by the office: Academic Programs and the 
Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program. 

Academic Programs at the Smithsonian supports and assists 
visiting students and scholars. It provides opportunities for re- 
search to be conducted at Smithsonian facilities, in conjunction 
with staff members. Residential appointments are offered at the 
undergraduate, graduate, and professional levels. 

The Institution further enhances the quality of its research and 
also extends the reach of its scholarly efforts through the Smith- 
sonian Foreign Currency Program (sfcp). The sfcp offers grants 
to the Smithsonian and other United States scholarly institutions 
to conduct research in a limited number of foreign countries where 
"excess currencies" are available. It is particularly effective in 
strengthening the "increase and diffusion of knowledge" on an 
international scale. 

ACADEMIC PROGRAMS 

The Smithsonian's academic programs are an important comple- 
ment to those offered at universities. The national collections and 



Science I 115 



the curators who study them are unparalleled resources that are 
not available anywhere else and are essential to scholarly research. 
Historical and anthropological objects, original works of art, na- 
tural history specimens, living plants, animals, and entire eco- 
systems are available for study. When university training is com- 
bined with field research, the educational experience is significantly 
enhanced, and the breadth of field opportunities at the Smithsonian 
is unmatched. 

The Office of Fellowships and Grants administered a variety 
of academic appointments in 1983. The program of Research 
Training Fellowships, which was begun in 1965, awarded sixty 
pre- and postdoctoral fellowships. The appointees pursue inde- 
pendent research projects under the guidance of staff advisors for 
periods of six months to one year in residence at one of the Insti- 
tution's bureaus or field sites. Topics of study for Smithsonian 
Fellows included: the regulation of foraging territories of arboreal 
ants; the origins and development of primitivism in nineteenth- 
century French art and aesthetics; study of the stellar kinematics 
of star-forming regions; interactions between boring organisms, 
snail shells, and coralline algae; taphonomic analysis of Paleo- 
indian bison kill sites; and urban and rural preventive maternal 
and child health care from 1880 to 1945. 

In addition to the general program funded through the Office 
of Fellowships and Grants, competitions for fellowships are also 
held for specific awards. For the second year, the First Ladies 
Fellowship was awarded; it supports the study of costume in 
America, at the National Museum of American History. The first 
recipient of the A. Verville Fellowship at the National Air and 
Space Museum will be studying the development of Austro- 
Hungarian aircraft from 1914 to 1918. 

In addition, eighteen graduate-student fellowships were offered 
for ten-week periods during 1983. The participants are usually 
junior graduate students beginning to explore avenues that develop 
into dissertation research. This year some of these fellows studied 
a tribal history of the Otoe-Missourias; the ceramics of Bernard 
Palissy; and an approach to the study of keyboard instruments, 
origins and authenticity. 

A number of senior fellowships continued to be offered. Smith- 
sonian Institution Regents Fellows in residence included Sir Francis 



116 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Watson, art historian and retired Surveyor of the Queen's Works 
of Art, who is researching the historical production of furniture, 
gilt bronze, and other decorative arts and their cultural significance 
at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. The National Museum of Natural 
History is host to two Regents Fellows: John B. Burch, professor 
of biological sciences at the University of Michigan, who is work- 
ing on a monograph of the fresh-water snails of North America; 
and Thomas Sebeok, chairman of the Research Center for Lan- 
guage and Semiotic Studies at Indiana University, who is working 
on the biological roots of art and an introduction to semiotics. At 
the National Museum of American History, Emory Kemp, pro- 
fessor of the history of science and technology at West Virginia 
University, is working on a history of suspension bridges. Ernest 
WiUiams, Alexander Agassiz Professor of Biology at Harvard 
University, was at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 
researching the evolution of Anolis. 

At the National Air and Space Museum, R. E. G. Davis was 
reappointed to the Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History to con- 
tinue his studies on the history of air transport, and Dr. Martin 
Harwit, professor of astronomy at Cornell University was ap- 
pointed to the Chair of Space History to continue his research on 
the role of theory in astronomical discovery. 

To honor Regent Emeritus James E. Webb, the Institution an- 
nounced the establishment of a number of fellowships in his name, 
designed to promote excellence in the management of cultural and 
scientific not-for-profit organizations; the first awards were of- 
fered in the late fall of 1982. Brooks Parsons, M.B.A. candidate 
at the University of North Carolina, worked in the Smithsonian's 
Office of the Treasurer. Three Smithsonian staff members were 
also selected to spend training periods away from the Institution. 
Deborah Warner, Department of History of Science and Tech- 
nology at the National Museum of American History, participated 
in the Executive Program in Business Administration at Columbia 
University. Rebecca Keith Webb, Smithsonian Museum Shops, 
continued her studies full-time in the M.B.A. degree program at 
George Washington University, and Jon Yellin, director of the 
Smithsonian's Office of Programming and Budget, enrolled in the 
Lucius E. Littauer Master of Public Administration Program at 
Harvard University. 



Science I 117 



During 1983, bureaus continued to offer support for visiting 
scientists and scholars in cooperation with the Office of Fellowships 
and Grants. Fifteen of these awards made possible visits to the 
Smithsonian by persons, principally scholars at mid-career, who 
do not fall within the framework of the research training program. 
The office also continued administration and partial support of 
the short-term visitor program. Forty-seven persons spent from 
one week to a month at the Institution conducting research, study- 
ing collections, and collaborating and conferring with professional 
staff. 

The expanded role of internships in the academic comniunity 
continues to be reflected by support for interns within the Institu- 
tion. The National Air and Space Museum funded six interns 
through the ofg this year. The Cooper-Hewitt Museum again ap- 
pointed three students under the Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellow- 
ship fund. Internships in environmental studies at the Smithsonian 
Environmental Research Center-Edgewater and in primate con- 
servation training at the National Zoo also continued. The Smith 
College-Smithsonian Program in American Studies is now in its 
fourth year. Eight students will participate in a seminar course 
and conduct research projects under the direction of staff members. 

Internship activities at the Smithsonian this year included a 
revision of Institution policies regarding internships and agree- 
ments about cooperative procedures among bureaus by the Intern- 
ship Council. Placement of interns continued through bureau 
internship coordinators, while the ofg continued administration of 
all stipend awards for internships. 

For the third year, the ofg has offered academic opportunities 
aimed at improving minority participation in Smithsonian pro- 
grams. The opportunities include fellowships for minority faculty 
members and faculty from minority colleges, and internships for 
minority undergraduate and graduate students. Awards were made 
to twenty-one interns who were placed at a variety of bureaus 
and offices on the Mall and also at the Cooper-Hewitt, the Smith- 
sonian Astrophysical Observatory, the Smithsonian Environmental 
Research Center, and the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. 
Some of these appointments have already developed into more 
permanent relationships. The ofg also awarded four fellowships 
to faculty persons to conduct research on subjects such as aspects 



118 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



of the religious paintings of Henry Ossawa Tanner, a resource 
guide to the artists and artifacts of Afro-Americans in the Smith- 
sonian, a study and analysis of the gospel hymns and songs of 
Lucie Eddie Campbell, and slave quilting in the antebellum South. 

On January 1 the ofg undertook the administration of the 
Smithsonian's cooperative education program. This student em- 
ployment program encourages minority college juniors or seniors 
and graduate students to work in professional and administrative 
positions at the Institution for sixteen to twenty-six weeks, sep- 
arated by periods of study at their university, and offers the poten- 
tial for permanent employment at the Smithsonian. Since the 
Cooperative Education Program has been managed by the Office 
of Fellowships and Grants, seventeen student co-op appointments 
have been made in various Smithsonian bureaus and offices. 

In conjunction with the Education Division of nasm, the Smith- 
sonian Foreign Currency Program (sfcp) hosted a visit by two 
Indian high school students, winners of a science essay competition 
on man and space. The students spent two weeks in Washington 
preparing a report on man and space as portrayed at the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

The SFCP awards grants to support the research interests of 
American institutions, including the Smithsonian, in those coun- 
tries in which the United States holds blocked currencies derived 
largely from past sales of surplus agricultural commodities under 
Public Law 480. The program is active in countries in which the 
Treasury Department declares United States holdings of these 
currencies to be in excess of normal federal requirements, includ- 
ing, in 1983, Burma, Guinea, India, and Pakistan. Research projects 
are moving toward conclusion under program support in the former 
excess-currency countries of Egypt, Poland, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, 
and Yugoslavia. 

The Smithsonian received a fiscal year 1983 appropriation of 
$2 million in "excess" currencies to support projects in anthro- 
pology and archeology, systematic and environmental biology, 
astrophysics, earth sciences, and museum professional fields. From 
its inception in fiscal year 1966 through fiscal year 1983, the sfcp 
has awarded about $53 million in foreign currency grants to 229 
institutions in forty states and the District of Columbia and 
Puerto Rico. 



Science I 119 



This year projects ranged over many disciplines, including arch- 
eological investigation of the Harappan site of Rojdi; archeological 
investigations in Egyptian Nubia; paleoanthropological studies of 
Later Miocene hominids in Pakistan; anthropological restudy of 
Karimpur village in India; examination of ceramic productions and 
distribution in Rajasthan, India; architectural survey of Vijayan- 
agara, the medieval Hindu imperial capital; oral histories of Tibetan 
refugees; ecological studies of foraging behavior of bees; and 
studies of Pleistocene pollen in Pakistan. 

Through the sfcp and other relationships, the Institution has a 
long-term interest in American research centers abroad. The Office 
of Fellowships and Grants has been assisting these centers in 
administering a cooperative organization for the advancement of 
interests shared by all. During 1983, this organization, the Council 
of American Overseas Research Centers, has been investigating 
sources of continuous funding for the centers; a brochure describ- 
ing the centers was published and distributed. 



Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 

The past year marked the end of an era for the Smithsonian Astro- 
physical Observatory (sao). In August the observatory was in- 
formed by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
(nasa) that a contract to operate all nasa's laser satellite-tracking 
stations would be awarded to the Bendix Corporation, beginning 
in October 1983. 

Thus ends, after more than a quarter century, sao involvement 
in optical and laser tracking of artificial earth satellites. The early 
years of the satellite-tracking program yielded some of the best 
known, most illustrious, and certainly most colorful contributions 
to science by sao since its inception in 1890. 

In advance of the International Geophysical Year (igy) of 
1957-58, both the United States and the Soviet Union announced 
intentions to launch satellites for research in atmospheric physics, 
geodesy, and solar physics. In July 1955 Fred L. Whipple, a pro- 
fessor of astronomy at Harvard, became director of sao, which 



120 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



was concurrently moved from the Mall in Washington to the 
grounds of the Harvard College Observatory in Cambridge, Massa- 
chusetts. He quickly proposed to the National Science Foundation 
(nsf) and the National Academy of Sciences (nas) that sao be 
given responsibility for the tracking of any United States satellites 
to be launched during the igy. On the basis of his experience with 
Schmidt-type cameras for meteor photography, Whipple was con- 
fident that optical tracking could successfully determine satellite 
positions. The proposal was accepted late in 1955, at which time 
it was assumed that the total observing program would last only 
the eighteen months of igy duration and involve a few satellites 
at most. 

By early 1956 Whipple, with the assistance of J. Allen Hynek, 
had designed a program to determine the positions of satellites 
illuminated by twilight through a network of observing stations 
around the world, each to operate a large-aperture camera known 
as the Baker-Nunn. Whipple also recognized the need for a world- 
wide network of visual observers who would make preliminary 
observations to assist the cameras in satellite acquisition. The 
organization of this volunteer network, later to be called Moon- 
watch, also began in 1956. Made up largely of amateur astronomers 
and enthusiastic young people, these Moonwatch teams played 
pivotal roles in the early satellite-tracking efforts and were not in 
fact disbanded until 1975, long after the development of sophisti- 
cated radar, Doppler, and laser methods for spacecraft tracking. 

On October 4, 1957, when the Soviet Union launched Sputnik 1, 
the Moonwatch network was operational, but the first Baker-Nunn 
cameras had not been tested, communications facilities had yet to 
be established at sao, and the computer programs needed for 
satellite orbit determinations were still under development. 

Undaunted, the sao satellite-tracking team responded to the 
challenge posed by the first artificial satellite. Initial optical obser- 
vations of Sputnik 1 came from the Geophysical Institute in Alaska 
on October 4 and 5, but the initial Moonwatch sightings also came 
from Alaska on October 8, and then from a Connecticut team on 
the 10th. These and subsequent Moonwatch sightings were used 
to refine predictions of the Sputnik orbit on a day-by-day basis 
for the computations group at sao. The prototype Baker-Nunn 
camera yielded the first photographs of Sputnik I's rocket body 



Science I 121 




The prototype Baker-Nunn camera, developed by the Smithsonian Astro- 
physical Observatory for optical satellite-tracking during the International 
Geophysical Year (1957-58), is shown during assembly and testing at Pasa- 
dena, California, in 1957. This camera, a modified Super-Schmidt type with 
optics designed by James Baker and a triaxial mount and drive system by 
Joseph Nunn, made the first tracking photographs of Sputnik I's rocket body 
on the night of October 17, 1957. The historic camera is now located at the 
Whipple Observatory in Arizona. 



on October 17. (Apparently, no photographs were ever attained 
of Sputnik 1, a black-painted body.) As revisions to the sao com- 
puter programs began to produce a better picture of Sputnik's 
orbit, the first observation showed that the effect of air drag at 
Sputnik's altitude had been greatly underestimated and that the 
shape of the Earth's gravity field as determined by Sputnik's orbit 
did not match prediction. In short, two major preconceptions about 
the Earth's near space environment were changed by the very first 
satellite. 

Veterans of the early days still remember these and the many 
following trials with pride. Sputnik 2 followed quickly in Novem- 
ber, again without warning; the first successful United States 
satelHte, after several failures of the Vanguard rocket series, 
achieved orbit as Explorer 1 on January 31, 1958. These and 
succeeding launches strained sao facilities and personnel to the 
utmost, as the Space Age arrived in earnest. The remaining Baker- 
Nunn cameras were rushed to completion and deployed, and 
entrepreneurial observers in the American pioneer tradition were 
appointed to operate them in remote locations throughout the 
world. Despite the initial challenges in most phases of sao track- 
ing operations, both the Moonwatch teams and the optical camera 
operators rapidly adjusted to the conditions of actual observation 
and soon became both efficient and productive. 

A rash of scientific discoveries, such as the Van Allen radiation 
belts circling the Earth, quickly flowed from the early satellite 
launches. Only by the early 1960s, however, did the full dimen- 
sions of SAo's contributions to science through the satellite-tracking 
program become apparent. The first "standard atmosphere," rely- 
ing on large quantities of optical-tracking data, was published in 
1964. In 1966 the first "Smithsonian Standard Earth" provided a 
geopotential model of the planet, as well as a grid of satellite- 
determined station positions and a discussion of the geodetic 
prospects for the future. These and subsequent models (eventually 
there would be three "Standard Earths") represented the culmina- 
tion of work begun during igy, as well as the precursors of future 
research in satellite geodesy, geophysics, and atmospheric physics. 

The Baker-Nunn cameras were gradually replaced by laser- 
ranging systems in the 1970s, as sao's mission of operational 
tracking evolved into the support of scientific programs, particu- 



Science I 123 



larly in Earth dynamics. The laser-ranging results have meant that 
the original accuracy goal of ten meters in the uncertainty of Smith- 
sonian tracking station positions at the time of the igy could 
evolve, twenty-five years later, into a realistic goal of one to three 
centimeters, with resultant implications for measuring crustal 
motion. 

As the original Baker-Nunn stations were decommissioned, cam- 
eras were donated to universities and research organizations for 
continued scientific use. In a fitting epilogue to the sag satellite- 
tracking program, the first Baker-Nunn camera, now in place at 
the Whipple Observatory in Arizona, has been transferred to the 
National Air and Space Museum as a monument to the early 
history of the Space Age. 

The satellite-tracking program also gave impetus to the devel- 
opment of other space-related activities at sao and the numbers 
of both its personnel and projects grew apace with national efforts. 
Moreover, since 1973, sao's research has been coordinated with 
that of Harvard College Observatory (hco) under a single director 
in a joint venture known as the Center for Astrophysics. In January 
1983 George B. Field, the center's first director, returned to teach- 
ing and research, and Irwin I. Shapiro, a professor of physics and 
geophysics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, assumed 
responsibility as the new director. The broad interests of the two 
observatories are organized by general topic areas in divisions, 
and summaries of divisional accomplishments during the past year 
follow. 

ATOMIC AND MOLECULAR PHYSICS 

Members of the Atomic and Molecular Physics Division carry out 
research in theoretical and experimental physics and chemistry 
directly related to the interpretation of astronomical observations. 
Because information about astronomical objects is obtained pri- 
marily through analyses of their emitted electromagnetic radiation 
and of the modification of this radiation on its way to the Earth, 
precise and comprehensive atomic and molecular data are needed 
to interpret and model the physical and chemical processes charac- 
terizing such objects. The past year saw substantial progress in 
research programs on photoprocesses affecting ions, radicals, and 
molecules; charge transfer between multiple charged ions and 

124 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



neutral atoms; electron-ion collision cross sections; radiative and 
dielectronic recombination; transition probabilities in molecules 
and molecular ions; and a variety of studies relating to the atmos- 
pheres of the terrestrial planets. 

Both laboratory measurements and theoretical calculations were 
undertaken to investigate photodissociation and photodetachment 
processes of astrophysical importance. The experimental program, 
utilizing a fast-molecular-beam apparatus, is aimed at the measure- 
ment of photodissociation cross sections for neutral free radicals 
such as CH and oh, which are well represented in the interstellar 
medium. 

Calculations of charge transfer involving the N++-He system 
were initiated in order to predict branching ratios and cross 
sections for production of a variety of ion pairs. Exceptional 
accuracy in the description of the separated atom limits proved to 
be necessary, so that large configuration-interaction calculations 
were required. Extension of the charge-transfer theory to include 
fine-structure effects was also achieved during the past year. 

Radiative recombination coefficients for such ions as N^ , N+^, 
0+ and 0+- are being calculated with the aid of a one-valence- 
electron nonspherical-core model potential. Emphasis has been 
placed on the resulting cascade-line spectra in the optical region 
in order to facilitate comparisons with the spectra of astrophysical 
objects in which ionization sources are probably absent, as in 
some nebulae. 

Numerous programs dealt with atomic and molecular processes 
relevant to the structure and evolution of the atmospheres of the 
terrestrial planets. The vibrational distribution of N2''" and 02"*" 
in the ionospheres of Earth, Mars, and Venus was computed; these 
ions were found to be more vibrationally excited on Venus and 
Mars than on Earth, where quenching by the parent neutral mole- 
cules is faster. Escape mechanisms for ^^N and ^^N atoms from 
the Martian atmosphere, and the effect of vibrational excitation of 
N2'^ on the escape arising from dissociative recombination of N^"^, 
were carefully evaluated; it was found that the escape flux or the 
isotope differentiation must have been inhibited in the past, pos- 
sibly by the presence of a dense early Martian atmosphere. 

Other programs and projects within the division during the 
past year included the following: ultraviolet spectroscopic measure- 



Science / 125 



merits of the Sun by means of a rocket experiment; theoretical 
studies of chemi-ionization and mutual neutralization in alkali 
metal-halogen collisions; laboratory studies in ion spectroscopy; 
and the application of many-body perturbation theory to degen- 
erate open-shell molecular states for the calculation of spin-orbit 
coupling effects. 

Professor Sir David R. Bates of the Queen's University, Belfast, 
participated in division research as a Smithsonian Regents Fellow 
during the year. Sir David made fundamental contributions to the 
theory of radiative association and the theory of ion-ion recombi- 
nation in dense gases. 

HIGH ENERGY ASTROPHYSICS 

High Energy Astrophysics Division members again devoted con- 
siderable time to the reduction and analysis of scientific data from 
the two High Energy Astronomy Observatory satellites (head 1 
and 2). Research programs based on these data covered a wide 
range of astronomical topics, including stellar coronae, supernova 
remnants, globular star clusters, binary X-ray systems, various 
types of galaxies, BL Lac objects, quasars, clusters of galaxies, and 
identifications of X-ray sources with objects observed in other 
regions of the electromagnetic spectrum. Observing programs at 
ground-based optical and radio telescopes supported these efforts. 
The operation of the Einstein (heao 2) Guest Observer Program 
continued. 

Engineering and scientific design and definition studies for two 
planned nasa space-astronomy missions constituted a significant 
portion of the division's hardware-related efforts. The first of 
these, the Advanced X-ray Astrophysics Facility (axaf), was rec- 
ommended in 1982 by the National Academy of Sciences' Astron- 
omy Survey Committee as the major new project of highest 
priority for all of astronomy during the 1980s. The second, a 
Large Area Modular Array of Reflectors (lamar) payload for a 
future Space Shuttle flight, is designed to detect X-ray sources of 
low intensity at moderate angular resolution. Related detector, 
imaging, and diagnostic technology pursued by division members 
included the following: development and testing of X-ray imaging 
detectors and grating spectrometers of several types; a high- 
resolution imaging detector of the heao-2 type for the Roentgen 



126 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Satellite (rosat) planned by the Federal Republic of Germany; 
design of a rocket payload incorporating a norn\al-incidence X-ray 
telescope; and an X-ray spectrometer for improved spectroscopic 
studies of hot plasmas. 

Research findings from analysis of data from the heao-2 
(Einstein Observatory) satellite during the past year included: 
detection of X rays from the newly discovered "fast" radio pulsar, 
which is spinning about twenty times faster than the most rapid 
pulsar known until 1983; determination of an X-ray luminosity 
function for quasars and strong evidence of evolution in luminosity 
with cosmic time; and the development of an X-ray classification 
scheme for clusters of galaxies, together with the conclusion that 
many galaxy clusters are dynamically young. It was also found 
that clusters may be divided into two major classes — those with 
and without a dominant central galaxy — and that this dominant 
galaxy is present at an early stage in the cluster's dynamical 
evolution. 

With the aid of theory, it was shown that a dense hot medium 
can be ruled out as the primary source of the diffuse X-ray 
background radiation. Concurrent observations from sao's Fred 
Lawrence Whipple Observatory (flwo) in Arizona, helped cor- 
relate X-ray features of spiral galaxies with optical and radio 
properties. Studies of X-ray measurements for a statistically com- 
plete sample of radio-emitting galaxies suggest origin of the 
X-ray emission in the galactic nucleus and support the hypothesis 
that the galactic radio "lobes" are fed continuously by some kind 
of beaming mechanism. Numerical inversion techniques are being 
developed to improve fits of X-ray surface brightness to models of 
the underlying gravitational potential in rich clusters of galaxies, 
with promising results for the Coma-type cluster A2256. 

Work continued on the optical identification of heao-1 X-ray 
sources, with the completion of finding charts, overlaid on the 
Palomar Sky Survey maps, for most of the sources detected. 
Identification proceeded with the aid of optical observations 
obtained at the flwo and other United States and foreign observa- 
tories; the Very Large. Array has also been used to search for radio 
counterparts of unidentified X-ray sources. Scientific highlights 
included the identification of about twenty probable optical 
counterparts. Three of these are unusually rich in iron, like 



Science I 127 



quasars that are strong radio emitters; and one is at a redshift of 
0.138, which implies very high luminosity in both the X-ray and 
optical spectral regions. 

In collaboration with scientists in the United States and in 
Europe, division members utilized Einstein Observatory stellar 
observations to obtain new information about stellar rotation. 
X-ray variability (especially in OB-type stars), and the structure 
of young stellar clusters. The search among Einstein data for 
extended X-ray emission around young supernova remnants con- 
tinues, and division members provided a major impetus to Inter- 
national Astronomical Union (iau) Symposium 101, "Supernova 
Remnants and Their Emission," held in Italy in the autumn of 
1982. 

Interpretations of solar X-ray observations are being used to 
place constraints on solar-dynamo models and to yield greater 
insights into the structure and heating of the outer solar atmos- 
phere. X rays were also detected from both polar regions of 
Jupiter, probably as the result of line emission from oxygen and 
sulfur ions migrating to the planet from volcanic eruptions on lo, 
Jupiter's nearest large satellite. 

OPTICAL AND INFRARED ASTRONOMY 

Research in optical and infrared astronomy concentrated on 
extragalactic and galactic astronomy, with special emphasis on 
studies of clusters of galaxies, redshift surveys, active galactic 
nuclei, star clusters, and the formation and evolution of stars. In 
support of research throughout the Center for Astrophysics, this 
division operated the Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory on Mt. 
Hopkins, Arizona, the site of the Multiple Mirror Telescope (mmt), 
a joint project with the University of Arizona. 

The installation of new detector systems at the mmt strengthened 
its position as a leader in spectroscopy of faint astronomical 
objects. A major project was undertaken to improve the optical 
performance of the mmt mirrors, in order to take better advantage 
of the excellent seeing at the summit of Mt. Hopkins. 

Several clusters of galaxies were studied in detail, with an 
important conclusion. Most clusters, such as those in Cancer and 
Virgo, have significant substructure. Previous studies, which did 
not take this substructure into account, have overestimated the 



128 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



cluster masses by large factors. This result goes a long way 
toward resolving the problem of the "missing mass/' which has 
been a puzzle to extragalactic astronomers for many years. This 
cluster research relied heavily on the facilities at Mt. Hopkins 
and also made good use of the Image Processing Facility in 
Cambridge. 

Publication of the cfa Redshift Survey was completed. This 
survey is proving to be a major contribution to observational 
cosmology, with many applications already published. For example, 
studies of the large-scale distribution of matter in the universe 
have shown that galaxies congregate in clusters, sheets, and 
strings, surrounding large voids. The survey has also been used 
to generate complete lists of groups of galaxies, which can now 
be used for further studies of questions such as the amount of 
mass in the universe and its eventual fate. The Redshift Survey 
is now being expanded to cover more of the southern skies and 
to extend deeper into space. 

Work on active galaxies continued on several fronts. The 
Redshift Survey turned up a large number of new active galaxies, 
and allowed a proper space density of such objects to be calculated 
for the first time. The physics of the nuclear regions of selected 
active galaxies was elucidated using high-resolution spectroscopy, 
in both the optical and the infrared. Surveys of faint QSOs were 
used to show that in general active galaxies must have been much 
brighter billions of years ago. A few extremely distant QSOs were 
used to probe the nature of intervening clouds of intergalactic 
matter. For this work, the QSOs served as "laboratory lamps," and 
high-resolution spectroscopy was used to study the absorption 
lines caused by the intervening clouds. Many of these clouds show 
no evidence of any heavy chemical elements; and they may 
represent primordial matter left over from the Big Bang, unpol- 
luted by the waste products of nuclear burning inside stars. 

Clusters of stars were also studied in several ways. The radial 
velocities of many individual stars were measured accurately in 
order to study the dynamics and frequency of binary stars in 
several clusters. Binaries are a frequent phenomenon in open 
clusters such as M67, but have yet to be found in globular 
clusters such as M3. Was star formation so different in globular 
clusters that no binaries formed, or have binaries been eliminated 



Science I 129 



(or hidden) by subsequent evolution of stars or of the cluster 
itself? In a related project, wide binaries with separations of up 
to 10,000 AU were shown to exist in the general disk population 
of our galaxy. Such wide binaries could not survive in a star 
cluster, where they would be ripped apart by chance encounters 
with other stars. Young star clusters were also observed to test 
theories of star formation. For example, the stars that have just 
reached the main sequence in the Pleiades are still rotating quite 
rapidly and also exhibit considerable activity on their surfaces. 

Infrared observations from the ground, nasa aircraft, and from 
high-altitude balloons were used for imaging and spectroscopy of 
astronomical objects, such as regions of star formation and galax- 
ies, and for high-resolution spectroscopy of key molecules near 
the ozone layer in the Earth's stratosphere. Ballooning continued to 
be a major activity, with a promise of increased activity in the 
future. Division scientists operated a balloon-borne 1-meter tele- 
scope that produced far-infrared observations of star-forming 
regions in our galaxy as well as observations of the galactic center 
and diffuse emission from dust in the galactic plane. A new tele- 
scope was flown with the Far Infrared Spectrometer as part of 
the International Balloon Intercomparison Campaign. Studies were 
initiated for a balloon-borne three-meter infrared telescope, and 
work continued on design aspects of a large optical array flown on 
a balloon as a step toward an advanced high-resolution and large- 
collecting-area telescope in space. Work proceeded on the helium- 
cooled infrared telescope, scheduled to fly on Spacelab 2 in 1985. 
The instrument was assembled and underwent extensive preflight 
testing. 

The ten-meter optical reflector was converted to an imaging 
device for use in high-energy gamma-ray astronomy. During the 
1982-83 observing season, a nineteen-element system was used to 
demonstrate the technique and to make preliminary observations. 
Candidate sources observed included the Crab Pulsar, Cygnus X-3, 
3C273, M87, SF433, and the two newly discovered millisecond 
pulsars. Quick-look data analysis suggests the successful detection 
of a high-energy gamma-ray signal from Cygnus X-3. Future 
plans include the recoating of the mirrors in the 10-meter reflector, 
the addition of a second three-meter reflector, and the expansion 
of the imaging system to thirty-seven elements. 



130 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



PLANETARY SCIENCES 
Members of the Planetary Sciences Division carry out all three of 
the traditional forms of scientific activity: the study of the planets 
by observational, theoretical, and laboratory means. 

Optical observations are performed at Oak Ridge Observatory 
in Harvard, Massachusetts, a facility ideally suited for the astro- 
metric measurements needed for determinations of orbits of small 
solar-system bodies, such as comets and asteroids. Major improve- 
ments to the Oak Ridge computer system during the past year 
were made possible by a grant from the Perkin Fund. The Oak 
Ridge program of regular observations of newly discovered, faint, 
or unusual minor planets and comets is closely coordinated with 
the International Astronomical Union's Minor Planet Center and 
Central Telegram Bureau, operated at sao by a division member. 
This cooperation facilitates the verification of observations made 
elsewhere, the rapid computation of orbital elements, and the 
timely dissemination of such information to institutions world- 
wide. The service is made self-supporting through an annual 
contribution from the iau and through the subscriptions of users. 

The activity of the Telegram Bureau was much greater than 
usual during the past year; and the appearance of two of the four 
closest comets of the past century made May 1983 the busiest 
month in the bureau's long history. Numberings of minor planets 
exceeded 200 during the past year and over 1,000 preliminary 
and improved orbits were determined for new objects. Approxi- 
mately 500 objects were observed and measured at Oak Ridge; in 
particular, the two comets that approached close to the Earth. 

Division members continued their participation in the analysis 
of data from the imaging experiment aboard the Voyager 2 
mission to Saturn. Highlights of the past year included discovery 
of optical evidence for electrostatic discharges in Saturn's Ring B, 
discovery of an active volcanic eruption on Jupiter's satellite 
Europa (following well-observed volcanic activity on lo), and 
detection of low-level activity on Europa during a close encounter 
of this satellite with the Voyager 2 spacecraft. All these results 
were achieved through collaborative programs involving scientists 
at other institutions. 

Another major program is devoted to theoretical studies of 
planetary bodies and comets. The decay of comet nuclei can have 

Science I 131 




The very close — and extremely brief — approach to Earth of Comet IRAS- 
Araki-Alcock in May 1983 provided scientists with a rare opportunity for the 
intensive study of a "virgin" comet, that is, one making its first passage 
through the inner solar system. Using a 61-cm telescope at the Whipple 
Observatory, astronomer Rudolph Schild made a series of 5-second exposures 
as the comet occulted stars, to determine the density and shape of the comet 
nucleus. Together with Fred Whipple, Schild is also trying to plot the direc- 
tion and rate of nucleus rotation as revealed by the intensity isophotes shown 
in computer-processed electronic images such as this. 



an effect on cometary motion and cohesiveness. Evidence exists 
that "dusty" comets and small dusty areas on comet nuclei are 
less active than more typical areas; older comets may therefore 
have grotesque surface configurations that could play a role in 
cometary bursts and splitting. The dynamics of postulated double 
comets may also explain such bursts. Other research has studied 
the dissipation mechanisms in the primitive solar nebula, together 
with the influence on these mechanisms of the accretion and early 
evolution of the Sun; recent calculations suggest a three-stage 
evolution of the primitive solar nebula in which the Sun is formed 
during a second stage of turbulent energy dissipation. A third 
related effort is devoted to studies of the long-term behavior of 
orbiting objects, such as the material in Saturn's rings, and their 
relationship to the overall mass distribution of the total system. 

Laboratory studies relevant to solar-system science included 
mineralogy and petrology techniques used to examine the detailed 
properties of meteorites and lunar samples; the former contain a 
cryptic record of events and processes associated with the origin 
of the solar system, whereas the latter embody an equally cryptic 
record of the earliest internal evolution of a small planet, our 
Moon. Meteorite research has centered on the origin of chondrules 
and refractory inclusions in chondrites: the melting and partial 
vaporization these objects experienced may be the result of aero- 
dynamic heating in the early solar nebula. A recently studied 
meteorite collected in Antarctica has all the properties of a lunar 
sample and appears to be a fragment of the lunar surface blasted 
away by the impact of an asteroid or comet at some time in the 
past, later to be captured by the Earth. Supplementing these inves- 
tigations are techniques taken from nuclear physics and applied 
to determinations of radioactive decay ages for Antarctic meteorites 
and ice samples, together with measurements of the radioactive 
decay of potassium, in support of an underground experiment to 
detect solar neutrinos. 

RADIO AND CEOASTRONOMY 

The Radio and Geoastronomy Division conducts studies in radio 
astronomy, aeronomy, and geophysics, as well as research and 
development programs in maser technology. Several new research- 
ers took up appointments this year, adding important strengths 



Science I 133 



in planetary sciences and solar-system dynamics. During the past 
year, division members operated both a laser satellite-tracking 
network and a radio astronomy facility, the George R. Agassiz 
Station, near Ft. Davis, Texas, where a Very Long Baseline Inter- 
ferometry (vlbi) station is also located. As part of the National 
VLBi Consortium, division members also maintain a network of 
computers that ensures proper operation of the various vlbi anten- 
nas. 

One component of vlbi research centered on studies of quasars 
and other compact extragalactic radio sources. Major accomplish- 
ments included the placing of stringent limits on any motions 
seen in the radio emission from the giant elliptical galaxy M87 — in 
sharp contrast to results for the nuclear regions of many other 
ellipticals — and observations of the polarization properties of a 
sample of BL Lac objects, which will permit full polarization maps 
of some of these sources to be constructed. The latter program was 
aided by supplementary observations obtained with the Very 
Large Array (vla) radio telescope of the National Radio Astronomy 
Observatory near Socorro, New Mexico. 

A second important area of vlbi research was devoted to studies 
of molecular maser sources associated with star-forming regions 
of the interstellar medium. Data analysis continued on an ambi- 
tious project to measure the proper motions of H2O maser sources 
in six regions of star formation, designed to permit direct determi- 
nation of the distances to these sources through the technique 
of statistical parallax. Of particular interest is the source Sgr B2, 
which is known to lie very close to the center of our galaxy, and 
which will thus furnish another estimate of the size of the galaxy 
as a whole. These observations will also yield insights into the 
dynamical structure within these star-forming regions. 

Radio spectral-line investigations were also carried out. Star- 
forming molecular clouds in our galaxy were studied in centimeter- 
wavelength lines of NHs, millimeter-wavelength lines of CO, and 
in the far- and near-infrared continua. These studies clarified the 
role of nearby cloud condensations in forming low-mass stars and 
yielded estimates of the stellar content of giant molecular clouds 
in the first quadrant of galactic longitude. 

Division members continued research into the feasibilty of using 
very long tethers in space, including tether deployment from the 



134 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Space Shuttle, the stability of large space platforms constructed 
with tethers, and the use of long tethers as antennas and power 
generators. Studies for a proposed Tethered Satellite System (tss), 
first conceived at sao, include a satellite on a 10-km tether deployed 
upward from the Shuttle for electrodynamics experiments, as well 
as a satellite deployed downward on a 100-km tether for atmos- 
pheric measurements. 

Spacecraft-tracking data and astrometric measurements were 
used to model the motions of solar-system bodies to a high 
degree of accuracy. The precise predictions furnished by this 
model will permit sensitive tests of the General Theory of Rela- 
tivity and of conjectured variations in the value of the fundamental 
gravitational constant G. Refined estimates of planetary masses 
and other solar-system constants can also be expected. 

Research on atomic hydrogen maser applications for vlbi, tests 
of General Relativity, and gravity-wave experiments continued. 
Two maser systems, embodying the finest known frequency- 
stabilization technology, were built for the U.S. Naval Observa- 
tory. In collaboration with the University of Arizona, the proper- 
ties of low-expansion materials used for maser microwave resonant 
cavities were investigated, and a completely vacuum-enclosed 
atomic hydrogen source for a low-temperature maser was success- 
fully adapted for use at normal temperatures encountered in 
spacecraft experiments. 

During the past year, the sao laser satellite-tracking network 
provided routine tracking coverage in support of geophysical 
research at sao and at other institutions in the United States and 
abroad, as well as periodic mean positions of the Earth's pole of 
rotation. The upgraded laser system in Arequipa, Peru, operated 
at the prescribed specifications, with ranging accuracy of the order 
of 3-5 cm. The sao laser from Natal, Brazil, was relocated to 
Matera, Italy, where it became operational in July. As discussed at 
the beginning of this report, the past year marks the last in a 
historic and productive quarter-century of sao satellite tracking. 

Among research programs new to the division is the study of 
the feasibility of optical interferometry in space through operation 
of an astrometric instrument in Earth orbit that would measure 
wide stellar separations with an uncertainty of only 10~^ arcsecond. 
Other programs included a study of Venus topography from data 



Science I 135 



returned by the Pioneer Venus Orbiter spacecraft; accurate mea- 
surements of variations in the Earth's gravity by means of a 
gravity gradiometer in space; and investigations of tunable micro- 
wave cavities as components in detectors for solar neutrinos. 

SOLAR AND STELLAR PHYSICS 

Division activities focused largely on fundamental features of 
stellar activity, with special application to selected problems of 
solar structure and variability. Observations from telescopes both 
on the ground and in space, covering the electromagnetic spectrum 
from radio waves to X rays, supplement detailed theoretical 
calculations of solar and stellar properties. Such a broad, cross- 
disciplinary approach is necessary for understanding the basics of 
stellar physics; a concurrent requirement is the study of large 
numbers of objects to establish bases of data for entire classes 
of stars. 

Investigations of stellar winds and mass loss, together with 
analogous studies of the Sun, again formed a major component of 
divisional research. Work on stellar processes greatly benefits from 
further understanding of the solar wind, since it is only for the 
Sun that detailed comparisons of theory and observation are 
possible. Basic research continued on solar and stellar atmospheric 
modeling and on interpretation of observed spectra; new models 
for solar active regions and for sunspots, based on data from the 
1973 NASA Skylab experiment, were computed, as well as a model 
for the wind and chromosphere of the M-supergiant star Alpha 
Orionis that accounts for a number of observed stellar features. 

Studies of mass loss in cool stars were aided by completion of 
computer codes that reproduce observed spectral-line profiles and 
open the way to an understanding of the mechanism driving mass 
loss. A new study of atmospheres and mass loss in metal-deficient 
stars was also begun with optical observations obtained at flwo. 
Work is now in progress to determine the observational signatures 
of the steady or moving shock waves found to develop in the 
time-evolution of stellar winds. Additional research focused on 
the ionization state of the solar wind and on the stability of stellar 
winds driven by absorption of line radiation from the parent star. 
These efforts were accompanied by theoretical and empirical 



136 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



studies of spectroscopic plasma diagnostics for the solar-wind 
acceleration region. 

Research on atmospheric processes in the Sun and other stars 
is supported by a computer program for detailed calculations of 
structural parameters and the emitted spectrum in a wide variety of 
astronomical sources, with departures from local thermodynamic 
equilibrium (lte) and multilevel atomic processes taken into 
account. This program was extended to treat complete non-LTE^ 
solutions of radiative-transfer equations in an expanding stellar 
atmosphere. 

Ultraviolet observations carried out with the International 
Ultraviolet Explorer (iue) satellite encompassed twelve different 
programs in the division during the past year, iue observations of 
the chromospherically active star Lambda Andromedea revealed 
the first ultraviolet flare ever recorded on a giant star, and perhaps 
the most energetic stellar flare yet observed. Investigation of the 
optical and ultraviolet spectra of shock-wave regions in supernova 
remnants (snrs) proceeded on several fronts. For example, optical 
spectra of snrs obtained at flwo have been combined with iue 
observations to obtain abundance gradients in the M33 galaxy and 
to improve shock-model calculations. Other work employing iue 
data includes studies of accreting binary stars. , 

With colleagues at Mt. Wilson Observatory, division scientists 
continued measurements of chromospheric Ca II line variations in 
cool stars for a third year, revealing not only the presence and 
nature of stellar activity cycles, but also rotation rates, time scales 
for growth and decay of active areas, and the presence of flarelike 
activity on short time scales. Thus, quantitative data on chromo- 
spheric emission are now available as functions of age, rotation 
period, and mass. 

A division member's research into the history of astronomy 
resulted in the presentation of more than thirty public lectures and 
the preparation of a major review essay on Ptolemy, Copernicus, 
and Kepler that summarized many years of investigations into 
these pivotal figures. For the second time, the fbi was assisted in a 
criminal case involving a stolen Copernicus book. 

Among the many other research programs of the division during 
the past year were the following: studies of the photoionization of 
the interstellar medium by white dwarf stars; a survey of X-ray 



Science I 137 



emission by contact-binary systems; a program of photoelectric 
photometry of solar-type stars to detect starspots; a study of 
the role of the solar magnetic field in heating the corona; further 
development of theoretical techniques in radiative transfer; predic- 
tions of solar and stellar spectra from computer models and their 
comparison with data from ground-based, rocket, and spacecraft 
observations; detailed studies of the newly discovered emission 
lines in the far-infrared solar spectrum; calculations of optical, 
ultraviolet, and X-ray emission from hot plasmas, together with 
detailed models for interstellar shock waves and for stellar coronae 
and transition regions; studies of abundance variations among 
stars within globular clusters, open clusters and dwarf spheroidal 
galaxies; rotational studies of late-type stars employing Southern 
Hemisphere observations; application of speckle-imaging tech- 
niques to study of the solar surface; design of a Michelson 
interferometer in space; the acoustic behavior of pulsating variable 
stars; and the internal structure of stars undergoing mass loss. 

Seven visitors to the division received support from the Smith- 
sonian Institution's Langley-Abbot Program during the past year 
and added substantially to the research progress achieved. 

THEORETICAL ASTROPHYSICS 

Research on a diverse range of astrophysical phenomena is con- 
ducted and these theoretical studies are often applied to the support 
and interpretation of observational data. Division members fre- 
quently collaborate with scientists in other institutions, as well 
as with members of other divisions; in addition, they contribute 
significantly to the educational programs of the observatory. 

During the past year, valuable progress was achieved in our 
understanding of radiative processes in astrophysical systems, the 
physics of plasmas containing magnetic fields, mechanisms for 
X-ray and gamma-ray emission, stellar evolution, planetary for- 
mation, and stellar dynamics. 

Significant advances were made in the application of simple 
escape-probability methods to models for line emission in astro- 
physical objects. For example, research showed how boundary 
conditions can be imposed in finite media when second-order 
escape-probability methods are used and how observable line 



138 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



emission can be computed from objects with considerable internal- 
velocity fields, such as stellar winds and accretion disks. 

A simple Lagrangian for ideal magnetohydrodynamics (mhd), 
incorporating conservation of magnetic helicity and cross-helicity, 
was developed; applications to static equilibria are now in progress 
to determine whether force-free fields are required. Applications 
of this MHD theory were also made to a study of the magnetic-field 
structure of the Sun. X-ray spectra and polarization properties of 
pair plasmas in strong magnetic fields are currently being investi- 
gated as well. 

Among investigations of X-ray and gamma-ray emission was a 
study of accreting X-ray pulsars according to a model in which 
matter is decelerated by Coulomb collisions; detailed calculations 
reproduced well the spectra, pulse shapes, and pulse-phase charac- 
teristics of observed sources. A new model for quasars, developed 
in collaboration with a Princeton scientist and involving decelera- 
tion of infalling matter by a collisionless shock wave, explained 
existing spectral data and furnished new observational tests of the 
theory. New solutions of the "telegrapher's equation" describing 
X-ray bursts have been found, and these results are now being 
tested against previously known cases; such solutions also apply to 
variable X-ray emission from active galactic nuclei. A study of 
degenerate dwarf stars in AM Her systems was carried out and led 
to determinations of spatial orientation, estimates of magnetic- 
field values, and a better understanding of the synchrony between 
the rotational and binary orbital periods through action of a mhd 
torque. A conference on cataclysmic variable stars and low-mass 
X-ray binaries covered recent advances in both theory and 
observation of cataclysmic variables and integrates these results 
with those for the X-ray binaries. 

Advances in the theory of stellar evolution included a prediction 
of the maximum radii of T Tauri stars, shown to be in excellent 
agreement with observations. This agreement provides strong 
confirmation of protostar theory, of the Hyashi theory of quasi- 
static contraction, and of the pre-main-sequence nature of T Tauri 
stars. In addition, the properties of long-chain organic molecules 
known as cyanopolyynes were used to compute the ages of 
molecular clouds suspected to be potential star-forming regions; 
these ages proved to be longer than the cloud free-fall times in 



Science I 139 



every case, showing that not all star-forming clouds can currently 
be in a state of collapse. 

In a joint program with Cambridge University, studies continued 
of formation of the terrestrial planets by accumulation of lunar- 
sized planetesimals. A numerical simulation involving 200 initial 
bodies was successfully completed, demonstrating the interaction 
between two competing processes: the growth of orbital eccen- 
tricities from two-body scattering and the increase in the average 
interplanetesimal distance as their numbers decrease. 

Finally, a somewhat unorthodox investigation has begun into 
conditions for life elsewhere in the universe. General theoretical 
considerations and plausible assumption — such as the ambient 
temperatures required for life— may be used to determine, within 
factors of 10 to 100, the lengths of the day and the year on 
habitable planets. These time scales may be expressed in terms of 
fundamental physical and astronomical constants, and their uni- 
versahty may have important implications for the existence of 
extraterrestrial life. 



Smithsonian Environmental Research Center 

The programs of the Smithsonian Radiation Biology Laboratory 
(srbl) and the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies 
(cBCEs) were merged, effective July 1, 1983, into a single adminis- 
trative unit. The newly formed bureau, the Smithsonian Environ- 
mental Research Center (serc) will continue basic research with 
the goals of measuring physical, chemical, and biological inter- 
actions in environmental settings and of determining the mecha- 
nisms within cells by which these interactions regulate biological 
responses. 

The research of srbl during the year was primarily laboratory- 
oriented and concentrated upon three major areas: Regulatory 
Biology, Environmental Biology, and Carbon Dating. The research 
of CBCES was largely field-oriented and emphasized land/water 
interactions for an estuary and its adjacent watersheds. The flow 
of materials and the dynamics of both terrestrial and aquatic 
biological populations were examined. In addition, cbces carried 
out a program in Public Education and Educational Research. 



140 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Since these two organizational units were administratively sep- 
arate for the major portion of the year, summaries of their 
activities are presented individually. Srbl's research was carried out 
primarily in a 50,000-square-foot laboratory at Rockville, Mary- 
land, and that of cbces at a 2,600-acre facihty at Edgewater, 
Maryland, on the watershed of the Rhode River Estuary. 



ROCKVILLE (SMITHSONIAN RADIATION 
BIOLOGY LABORATORY) 

Regulatory Biology 

Regulatory Biology is the study of the mechanisms within cells 
and organisms by which environmental stimuli control growth and 
development. One of the major regulatory pigments, phytochrome, 
occurs in plants which have the capacity to produce chlorophyll. 
Phytochrome is a photoreceptor protein and mediates the effect 
of sunlight on many aspects of growth and development of plants. 
It has been known for some time that exposure of phytochrome to 
light results in changes in its molecular structure that cause it to 
become biologically active. Isolation and purification techniques 
reported last year have enabled these changes to be partially 
characterized. Even though the light-absorbing portion of phyto- 
chrome makes up a relatively small part of the molecule, its activa- 
tion by light leads to changes in the overall shape of the protein 
and exposes an "active site." 

It is generally accepted that the active form either interacts 
with a receptor in the cell to initiate biological changes or it is 
deactivated by either destruction or reversion to the inactive form. 
This reversion to the inactive form can be either a photochemical 
process or occur spontaneously in the dark. When a small portion 
of one end of the protein is removed, the ability of active phyto- 
chrome to revert to the inactive form in the dark is dramatically 
affected. This fact indicates that the absorbing portion of phyto- 
chrome is located very close to the end of the protein which is 
removed. 

Phytochrome is also the pigment by which light can induce 
flowering. Young leaves exposed to proper light quality of suitable 
duration produce chemical changes that are transmitted to buds 



Science I 141 



that become flowers. These chemical changes have resisted precise 
description for many years. Analyses of the phloem sap of Perilla 
plants have continued, using high-pressure liquid chromatography 
(hplc). Differences previously found between extracts of vegetative 
and flowering plants have been confirmed. The time course is 
being constructed of the appearance of these differences after 
flower induction. Similarly, samples of phloem sap from both 
vegetative and flowering Xanthium and Pharbitis plants are being 
examined for differences that correlate with flowering. 

Salicylic acid (sa) induces flowering in several Lemna species, 
but p-hydroxybenzoic acid, which is structurally similar, is inactive. 
Uptake of sa and p-hydroxybenzoic acid is rapid and linear for 
at least twenty-four hours. After thirty minutes most sa measured 
is present as free sa, but over twelve hours more than 50 percent 
is converted to one or more bound forms of sa. However, part of 
the p-hydroxybenzoic acid is converted to bound forms within 
thirty minutes, and the relative amount of free and bound 
p-hydroxybenzoic acid undergoes little further change. This differ- 
ence between the metabolism of sa and p-hydroxybenzoic acid 
may provide a clue to why sa has flower-inducing activity while 
p-hydroxybenzoic acid is inactive. 

Insulin is a small polypeptide hormone in mammals. Insulinlike 
activity has also been demonstrated in a variety of other verte- 
brates, invertebrates, fungi, protozoa, and bacteria. For the first 
time, in collaboration with the National Institutes of Health, in- 
sulinlike activity was found in higher plants. Extracts of rye seed- 
lings, spinach and Perilla phloem sap, as well as extracts of Lemna 
gibba G3 gave activity. The results with Lemna demonstrated that 
the insulinlike activity was not due to contamination by micro- 
organisms. The physiological significance of insulinlike peptides 
in higher plants, however, remains to be determined. Insulin 
activity in plants has been shown to be due to a polypeptide, sim- 
ilar but not identical to insulin. 

Photoperiodism, or the control by light (photo-) of the seasonal 
reproduction (-periodism) in plants, is affected by solar spectral 
quality. Plants that have such a control mechanism are able to 
detect the relative length of the day. Some require day lengths 
greater than some critical minimum and are called long-day plants, 
while others require day lengths shorter than some critical maxi- 



142 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



mum and are called short-day plants. Nonphotoperiodic plants are 
called day-neutral and reproduce generally at some fixed time 
relative to germination or a change in temperature (thermoperi- 
odic). 

Many economically important crops belong to the long-day 
group, e.g., barley. Experiments with barley have shown that its 
response to increasing day lengths is markedly stimulated by 
including light that is just beyond that which the human eye can 
detect (far-red or near infrared light). The stimulation of the 
flowering response by far-red light depends on the time at which 
plants are exposed. Thus, not only must light of the proper 
spectral quality be present, but it must be present at the right time. 
Therefore, photoperiodic control in these plants occurs when light 
interacts simultaneously with an internal biological clock. This 
clock determines the sensitivity of the plant to the presence of 
far-red light. Neither the nature of the biological clock nor the 
pigment responsible for the absorption of the far-red light is 
currently understood. Chlorophyll has been ruled out as the pig- 
ment that induces flowering, and the only other known pigment 
that absorbs far-red light is phytochrome. Unfortunately, enhance- 
ment of flowering by far-red light is not easily explained by known 
phytochrome reactions. 

In collaboration with the Weizmann Institute in Israel, a bio- 
logical clock was studied in a fungus, Trichoderma viride, to obtain 
information on how sensitivity to light is affected by a biological 
clock. This fungus sporulates in response to blue light and cannot 
respond to further light stimulation for about one day. The hy- 
pothesis was made that this delay in sensitivity is regulated by a 
biological clock. Using a mutant that sporulated rhythmically in 
constant darkness, it was shown conclusively that response sensi- 
tivity was coupled to a biological clock. The sensitivity to induc- 
tion by twenty seconds of blue light varied during the day in the 
wild type and the phase of this rhythm in the mutant could be 
reset by blue light. 

In collaboration with colleagues at Stanford University, srbl 
staff demonstrated that stomatal opening and the growth rate of 
Ladyslipper orchids can be increased substantially in light enriched 
in the blue region of the spectrum. These orchids are unusual since 
they do not possess chlorophyll in the cells that surround the 



Science I 143 



stomatal pores on the surfaces of the leaves and pore opening is 
sluggish. This suggests that the growth of these orchids is re- 
stricted by their ability to exchange gases with the atmosphere, 
and that a blue light absorbing pigment, that is not chlorophyll, 
can overcome this restriction. 

Blue light also regulates the biosynthesis of pigmented carote- 
noids in fungi. Phytoene, a forty-carbon colorless compound, is a 
precursor of the carotenoid pigments. It is synthesized from a five- 
carbon compound, isopentenyl pyrophosphate (ipp), by a series of 
reactions. The study of this biosynthetic pathway was continued 
in the fungus Neurospora crassa, using cell-free enzyme extracts. 
The conversion of ipp to phytoene requires both soluble and mem- 
brane-bound enzymes. The enzyme that converts geranylgeranyl 
pyrophosphate (ggpp) to phytoene is membrane-bound and regu- 
lated by blue hght. This enzyme is absent in an albino-2 mutant. 
The conversion of ipp and ggpp requires two soluble enzymes, an 
isomerase and a prenyltransferase. Partial purification of the 
prenyltransferase has been achieved. This enzyme is also regu- 
lated by blue light and is present at a reduced level in an albino-3 
mutant. 

Phytoene biosynthesis was also investigated in another type of 
albino (white collar). The white collar phenotype is characteristic 
of regulatory mutants that are blocked in some part of the initial 
light induction process. Two white collar mutants are known that 
produce normal levels of cartenoid pigment in the conidia, but the 
mycelia remain albino under all conditions. When white collar 
mutants are used as maternal parents, the phototropic bending 
toward the light of Neurospora perithecial "necks" does not occur. 
However, when wild type, or albino mutant strains are used as 
maternal parents, phototropism of the "necks" is observed. These 
results support the proposal that the white collar phenotype is 
characteristic of regulatory mutants blocked in the light-induction 
process. 

In the discomycete fungus Pyronema domesticum, light is nor- 
mally required to induce the formation of apothecia (reproductive 
structures). However, apothecia lacking spore-containing asci were 
formed in complete darkness if supplementary aeration was pro- 
vided. However, if an amino acid supplement was provided in the 
dark, the apothecia that were formed were morphologically equiv- 



144 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



alent to those produced in white hght without supplementary 
aeration. Light with wavelengths greater than 694 nanometers 
and an intensity of 0.55 W m~^ further increased the number of 
apothecia formed. The nature of the pigment involved in this 
process is unknown. 

Blue-green algae are known for their adaptability to their 
environment. One of their responses to light adaptation was 
studied in Anacysti9 nidulans in collaboration with colleagues at 
the University of Texas, Austin. Spontaneous pigment mutants 
were selected that grew better in far-red light (wavelengths longer 
than 650 nanometers) than in white light. When grown in white 
light, mutants had a decreased amount of the accessory pigment 
phycocyanin relative to allophycocyanin and smaller phycobili- 
somes (which are light hanvesting antennae) compared to the wild 
type. One mutant (85Y) also had a great reduction in the chloro- 
phyll content, yet its growth, cell size, and phycobilisome to photo- 
system-II reaction center ratio (0.7-1.2) were unaffected. Further- 
more, the number of reaction centers and phycobilisomes per cell 
was relatively constant. These results suggest that the mutants 
differ from the wild type in the antenna size but not number. 

In red and blue-green algae the energy absorbed by the accessory 
pigments in phycobilisomes is transferred almost exclusively to 
photosystem-II. Thus, a close structural relationship was expected. 
Following this rationale, and using a medium developed previ- 
ously in the laboratory, which preserved the labile oxygen evolu- 
tion reaction and kept phycobilisomes intact, phycobilisomes con- 
taining photosystem-II activity were isolated for the first time 
from the alga Porphyridium cruentum. These phycobilisome photo- 
system-II particles have the highest oxygen-evolution rate of any 
photosystem-II particle thus far obtained from any green plant or 
any blue-green alga. 

The internal membranes of chloroplasts (thylakoids) of algae 
and higher plants have ribosomes bound to them. Previous work 
suggested that the thylakoid-bound ribosomes might be specifically 
involved in synthesizing polypeptides which are added to the 
thylakoids. Therefore, the distribution of messenger rna (m-RNA) 
between thylakoids and stroma of spinach chloroplasts was de- 
termined for an integral membrane polypeptide, apo chlorophyll 
protein complex 1 (apo cp 1), a peripheral membrane polypeptide. 



Science I 145 



beta subunit of the coupling factor 1 (P subunit of cf 1), and a 
stroma polypeptide (large subunit ribulose bisphosphate car- 
boxylase). Chloroplasts were isolated, fractionated into thylakoids 
and stroma, total rna prepared from each fraction, and the rna 
assayed for m-RNAS in wheat germ extract by immunoprecipitation 
with monospecific antibodies. More than 50 percent of the chloro- 
plast m-RNA for apo cp 1 and for (3 subunit of cf 1, as well as 75 
percent of chloroplast m-RNA for the large subunit of ribulose 
bisphosphate carboxylase, were found associated with the thyla- 
koids. The presence of these m-RNAs in thylakoid-bound polyribo- 
somes was then tested by translation in Escherichia coli extract, 
under conditions where protein synthesis initiation does not take 
place. Here also, apo cp 1, P subunit of cf 1 and the large subunit 
of ribose bisphosphate carboxylase were synthesized. Thus, thyla- 
koid-bound ribosomes are synthesizing at least two chloroplast 
membrane polypeptides. However, the results show that thyla- 
koid-bound polyribosomes also synthesize a stroma polypeptide, 
namely, the ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase. Thus, thylakoid- 
bound ribosomes are not only involved in addition of polypeptides 
to the membranes, but are involved in synthesis of other poly- 
peptides as well. Possibly the large subunit of ribulose-bisphosphate 
carboxylase becomes associated with membranes prior to complex- 
ing with the cytoplasm-synthesized small subunit of the enzyme. 

Environmental Biology 

The productivity of photosynthesizing organisms is dependent 
upon many environmental factors. The effects were measured of 
variation of some of these factors upon photosynthesis and produc- 
tivity of the estuarine alga, Prorocentrum mariae lehouriae, and 
several flowering plants. Spectral qualities, irradiances, tempera- 
tures, water pH, and water carbon content were varied and algal 
responses were measured with an infrared gas analysis system, 
which measured changes in the concentration of carbon dioxide 
in the gas bubbling through the cultures. This system provided a 
rapid analysis and enabled determination of the size of the transient 
carbon dioxide pulses that occurred when lights were first turned 
on or off. These transients were used to characterize the carbon 
reserves in the photosynthetic apparatus of the alga. 



146 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



The effects of far-red and infrared radiation on plant growth 
can be categorized as thermal and photosynthetic, i.e., radiation is 
absorbed and converted to heat or is absorbed and used for photo- 
synthesis. The spectral composition of electrical light sources, 
unlike the solar spectrum, has a relatively large component in the 
infrared region of the electromagnetic spectrum. This infrared 
component is absorbed by plants and converted to heat. It enhances 
productivity at suboptimal temperatures, when temperature is a 
limiting factor and is detrimental at supraoptimal temperatures. 
Unlike infrared radiation, far-red radiation can be used for photo- 
synthesis in combination with radiation of shorter wavelengths. 
The far-red component of these sources, while not as significant a 
portion of their spectrum as the infrared, is utilized by the plant 
at near optimal temperatures to increase productivity beyond that 
achieved with only visible radiation. Thus, not only the visible 
but also the longer wavelengths of the electromagnetic spectrum 
can be utilized to enhance plant growth. 

Spartina alterniflora is the dominant higher plant in coastal salt 
marshes. Thousands of acres of this important habitat are mono- 
cultures of this species. Throughout its distribution, Spartina has 
adapted to a broad range of environmental stresses, including 
anoxia, salinity, nitrogen stress, hydrogen sulfide, and probably 
other as yet undiscovered factors. While it has recently been shown 
that the primary production of this plant is strongly influenced by 
these factors, the physiological mechanisms for their action, that 
is, how environmental factors become translated into effects on 
growth of the plant, are not well understood. 

In order to understand how the effect of stress factors in the 
root environment of Spartina alterniflora affects growth and pro- 
duction, a system was built for monitoring photosynthesis and gas 
exchange in the leaves of this plant while maintaining the root 
system in a controlled environment that can be altered readily. 
The experimental strategy is to examine the effect of an introduced 
perturbation on plants that have been grown at various stress 
factor levels. 

Roots of Spartina alterniflora, which had been grown in a salt 
concentration about V4 that of sea water, were exposed to a con- 
centration of salt equal to sea water. The effect on stomata (small 
openings in the leaves which admit CO2 and through which water 



Science I 147 



vapor passes as it evaporates from the leaf surface) was monitored. 
Stomatal openings were reduced rapidly and reached a maximum 
reduction of about 50 percent. Photosynthesis was similarly re- 
duced. These results show that the effect within a few hours on 
photosynthesis of an increase in salinity around the roots is due 
to a decrease in the supply of CO2 brought about by a reduction 
in stomatal opening and not to a direct effect of salt upon the photo- 
synthetic apparatus within the green cells inside the leaf. The 
effect is readily reversed by reducing the salinity in the medium. 
Such experiments suggest that the effects of one of the most im- 
portant stresses in the environment of Spartina alterniflora may 
operate to control growth through the water balance of the plant; 
an effect that is transmitted to photosynthesis through turgor 
pressure in the leaf. 

The spectral monitoring of sunlight intensity in bands spread 
across the ultraviolet, visible, and infrared is beginning to yield 
interesting results. It has been postulated that the amount of 
radiant energy coming from the sun varies in an eleven-year cycle. 
Only the amount of energy in the ultraviolet measured on earth 
varies in accordance with this predicted eleven-year cycle. Radia- 
tion in the visible and far-red do not. The variations in the ultra- 
violet measured on earth agree well with variation measured in 
space by the National Aeronautics & Space Administration and 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. 

Since the amount and quality of light to which algae are exposed 
are important determinants of their productivity, a program for 
the measurement of underwater spectral irradiance in the Rhode 
River was continued. Underwater irradiance over the past two 
years was very seasonal. The quantity of available light in the 
summer months was six times less than the quantity of light during 
the winter months because of high levels of suspended sediment 
and plankton concentrations. A new laser technique (Raman Spec- 
troscopy), now being investigated, may prove very helpful in 
characterizing particulates in the water column. 

Radiocarbon Dating 

Radiocarbon chronologies for samples of geological and archeo- 
logical interest were provided by the Carbon Dating Laboratory 

148 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



as an analytical service for the research interests of the Institution's 
staff. This year a new, small, low-level counter was installed for 
dating small-volume samples that previously could not have been 
measured. In addition, the computerized reduction of statistical 
data was refined and now allows for significantly shorter counting 
times. As a result of these improvements 450 samples were dated. 
Of these, 200 were analyzed as a service to Smithsonian staff and 
the results are included in reports from their respective bureaus. 

Dates were obtained from the organic fraction extracted from 
cores of lake-bottom sediments of several lakes in northeastern 
Pennsylvania and New Jersey. The results show the presence of 
initial vegetation as early as 18,000 years ago, and thus a recession 
of the continental ice sheets at that time. The early recession of 
the ice sheets requires reconsideration of what land was available 
for human occupation in these areas. 

Remains of cane torches from a deep cavern in Tennessee were 
analyzed and gave dates spanning a range from a.d 400 to 1600, 
with a marked concentration at a.d. 1200 to 1400. Thus, the re- 
markable display of mud glyphs in the cavern appears to have 
been made in the Mississippi period of eastern Woodland Indian 
occupation in the southeastern United States. 

EDCEWATER (CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR 
ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES) 

The principal objective of the center's program is the study of 
environmental processes in estuarine and watershed systems. Ob- 
servational and manipulative studies are designed to develop and 
test ecological concepts at the macroscopic process level (land- 
scapes, habitat, community, or population). Emphasis is placed 
upon studies of how biological communities are developed and 
maintained over time. The need for such research is increasingly 
critical in a world where chronic disturbance is causing major 
reductions in the productivity and diversity of environmental 
systems. The primary site for this long-term, intensive research 
is the Smithsonian's properties on Chesapeake Bay (tidal Rhode 
River and its watershed). The site includes a blend of land uses 
typical of the Atlantic Coastal Plain, freshwater and brackish tidal 
wetlands, as well as an estuarine tributary to Chesapeake Bay. 
This environmental diversity and the long-term control of the 



Science I 149 



property make the site exceptionally suitable for a variety of 
studies of the complex processes linking terrestrial and estuarine 
systems. Comparative studies are also conducted at a wide range 
of secondary sites, some outside the United States, to test the 
generality of research results from the primary site. 

The center also conducts a program of educational research with 
a focus on how best to teach environmental science in an informal 
or outdoor setting. Projects have approached learning in neigh- 
borhood, museum, or various natural situations. Various age and 
social groupings are used as subjects. The center has also offered 
a limited program of public education with an emphasis upon 
teacher- and docent-led tours. 

Thermal Ecology of Salamanders 

In this study the thermal ecology of temperate and tropical sala- 
manders was compared. Data for the latter group were derived 
mainly from field work in Mexico and Middle America. No evi- 
dence was found for behavioral thermoregulation among the vast 
majority of tropical and temperate salamander species. The main 
exception appears to be Thorius, a diminutive tropical form that 
thermoregulates by moving about in the thermal gradient existing 
beneath the loosened bark of fallen logs. Temperate-zone sala- 
manders experience lower minimum temperatures and more sea- 
sonal variation than do their tropical counterparts, but there is no 
consistent relationship between latitude and maximum body tem- 
perature. Interspecific differences in thermal ecology do not appear 
to occur in coexisting salamanders. Latitudinal, elevational, and 
phylogenetic differences in thermal economy correspond to features 
of salamander morphology, life history, energetics, and physio- 
logical capacity. 

Competition between Trees and Vines 

Vines, especially introduced species, can have a deleterious effect 
on forest productivity by physical suppression of seedlings, small 
trees, and shrubs. A four-year study of the effects of vines on the 
growth of Sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua) has shown that 
they also retard growth of trees that are tall enough not to be 
physically damaged. The negative effect is due most likely either 



150 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



to competition for nutrients in the soil or the release of inhibitory 
chemicals. By decreasing tree growth, vines can affect mortality 
rates and perhaps make the tree more susceptible to disease. 

Role of Plant Litter in Nutrient Dynamics 

A major objective of the Rhode River study is to determine the 
role of litter in the cycling and transport of nutrients. Litter is the 
sum of various plant materials such as leaves, bark, and twigs, 
which fall to the ground. Litter production and the amount of 
surface litter were measured in four types of irregularly flooded 
brackish wetlands dominated by various herbaceous species such 
as Distichlis spicata (Spikegrass), Spartina patens (Saltmarsh hay), 
Scirpus Olneyi (Three-square), or shrubs such as Iva frutescens 
(Marsh elder). Litter production was also measured in regularly 
flooded brackish wetlands dominated by Typha angustifolia (Nar- 
row-leaved cattail), a nontidal herbaceous wetland dominated by 
numerous species, in regularly and infrequently flooded forested 
wetlands and in upland forests. Red maple (Acer rubrum), Ash 
(Fraxinus sp.), and Sycamore (Platanus occidentalis) dominated 
the wetland forests, while several species of Oaks (Quercus sp.). 
Hickories (Carya sp.). Tulip-poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera), and 
Sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua) dominated the upland forest. 
Litter turnover (decomposition) rates were also measured in each 
habitat to determine how fast nutrients were returned to the 
substrate. 

There were no significant differences in litter production among 
the forested wetlands and upland forests. Litter production was 
highest in the regularly flooded cattail wetland and in vegetation 
that occurred on the streambank of the irregularly flooded brackish 
wetlands. Litter production was least in vegetation that occurred 
on the infrequently flooded portions of the brackish wetlands. By 
contrast, litter turnover rates were highest in the upland forest 
and least in the wetlands. There was also a gradient in the nutrient 
(nitrogen and phosphorus) content of the litter, with lowest 
values occurring in wetland litter and highest values in upland 
litter. The results suggest that production and decomposition of 
litter in wetland habitats may be nitrogen limited. The study 
provides further evidence for the hypothesis that litter in wetland 
habitats is nutrient poor and that these wetlands serve primarily 

Science I 151 



as habitats in which nutrients are transformed rather than as a 
nutrient source to the estuary. This hypothesis was also verified 
by tidal-cycle studies that measured the exchanges of nutrients 
between intertidal wetlands and adjacent open-water areas. This 
demonstrated that the nutrients enter the wetlands as particulate 
forms and leave the wetlands as dissolved nutrients. The litter 
zones thus serve as sites where particles are deposited and decom- 
posed by microorganisms that live in the litter. 

Ecological Impacts of Wetland Ditching 

Coastal wetlands are being ditched for purposes of mosquito con- 
trol, but the long-term ecological impacts are unknown. Data from 
a four-year study of the impacts of ditching on Chesapeake Bay 
wetlands have shown that deleterious effects may occur if the 
water table is lowered as a result of some types of ditching. Such 
areas may be invaded by undesirable shrubs, decomposition rates 
of litter may be lowered, and plants may contain higher concen- 
trations of nitrogen and phosphorus. An experiment was con- 
ducted to test the hypothesis that elevated nutrient concentrations 
of plants on drained wetlands were due to removal of stresses 
associated with waterlogging. Fertilizer was added to plots in 
ditched and drained wetlands, ditched and undrained wetlands, 
and an unditched control wetland. Results of the experiment sup- 
ported the hypothesis that tissue nitrogen concentrations are 
primarily controlled by substrate waterlogging. The largest increase 
in tissue nitrogen concentrations occurred in fertilized plots in the 
ditched and drained wetlands, while there were no differences 
between plots in two undrained wetlands. The research also dem- 
onstrated that species with roots and rhizomes in the upper well- 
drained portions of the substrate responded more rapidly to 
fertilization than species with roots and rhizomes in deeper pro- 
tions of the substrate that were more waterlogged. 

Estuarine Water Quality 

Phosphorus and nitrogen are normally the mineral nutrients whose 
concentrations are most limiting for estuarine productivity. Any 
change in their concentrations is therefore of concern. Average 
total phosphorus concentrations in surface waters of the Rhode 



152 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



River Estuary in summer and fall were shown to increase four- 
fold during the 1970s, then leveled off. Winter and spring phos- 
phorus concentrations changed very little from levels found in 
prior years. However, phosphorus concentrations in headwater 
tidal areas and watershed stream discharges did not undergo such 
large warm-weather increases. Other phosphorus and nitrogen 
fractions, such as dissolved phosphate or nitrate, remained essen- 
tially constant in the Rhode River. Large releases of phosphorus 
from bottom sediments are known to be caused by anoxia in over- 
lying water. Thus, these data indicate the increasing impact of 
anoxic periods during warm weather in mid-Chesapeake Bay 
bottom waters. It is believed that the extent and duration of these 
anoxic conditions increased during the 1970s. The observed in- 
crease in phosphorus concentrations in surface waters has released 
estuarine algal populations from one of the physiological con- 
straints that helped prevent excessive growth in the past. 

Nitrogen nutrient inputs to the Rhode River estuary from 
atmospheric deposition directly onto the water surface and from 
land runoff were compared for seven years. On average, about 
the same annual amount of nitrate and ammonia entered the sys- 
tem via precipitation as from land runoff and, during the summer 
and fall, precipitation was the largest source. The average nitrate 
content of summertime precipitation doubled during the seven-year 
period. Thus, precipitation is an important diffuse source of avail- 
able nitrogen to the estuary. 

Phytoplankton Dynamics 

Dense populations of several species of dinoflagellate algae (called 
mahogany tides on the Chesapeake) occur frequently during the 
growing season on the Rhode River. One of the most common 
of these mahogany tide organisms is Prorocentrum mariae-lebou- 
riae. Growth and pigment concentrations of Prorocentrum mariae- 
lebouriae were measured in cultures grown in white, blue, green, 
and red radiation at three different intensities (58.7, 17.4 and 7.8 
uEinsteins m~^ s~^. Concentrations of chlorophyll a and chloro- 
phyll c in algal cells were inversely related to irradiance. A decrease 
of 7- to 8-fold in photon flux density resulted in a 2-fold increase 
in chlorophyll a and c and a 1.6- to 2.4-fold increase in both 
peridinin and total carotenoid concentrations. Cells grown in green 



Science I 153 



light contained 22 to 32 percent more peridinin per cell and 
exhibited 10 to 16 percent higher peridinin to chlorophyll a ratios 
than cells grown in white light. Growth increased as a function of 
irradiance in cells grown in white, green, and red light, but was 
the same at all blue-light irradiances tested. Maximum growth rates 
in red and white light occurred at photon flux densities of 24 to 32 
^lEinsteins m~^ s~^. At low intensities, the fastest growth rates 
occurred in blue and red radiation. 

Measuring photosynthetic pigments in phytoplankton samples 
by extraction and wet-chemistry methods is labor intensive and 
requires a great deal of care to avoid artifacts. Therefore, an effort 
was made to develop and test an in vivo spectrophotometric tech- 
nique for estimating photosynthetic pigments in phytoplankton. 
The chlorophyll a, b and c contents of cryptophyte and dino- 
flagellate species were measured by conventional solvent extrac- 
tion and absorption spectrophotometric methods. These data were 
used to calibrate an automated in vivo derivative spectrophotom- 
etry procedure. Cells were collected on filters and the second deriva- 
tive of the log of the reciprocal in vivo transmittance was then 
related to pigment content, as determined by extraction. It was 
determined that, for these cultures of algae, the derivatives at 554, 
642 and 606 nm were the best for estimation of chlorophylls 
a, b and c, respectively. 

Phytoplankton have been shown to be responsible for most of 
the plant productivity of the Rhode River Estuary. One mechanism 
by which these algae transfer energy to the food web is the 
release of dissolved organic matter to the surface waters. A con- 
tinuing study of this process measured the rate of production by 
phytoplankton of extracellularly released organic carbon, its mo- 
lecular weight distribution, and subsequent utilization and trans- 
formation by bacterioplankton in situ. The primary production 
rate of phytoplankton was high (60 to 300 ^ig C /~^h~^). The rate 
of organic carbon release varied from 1.3 to 124 tig C /~^h~^) and 
constituted from 4.0 to 69 percent of the total carbon fixed in 
photosynthesis. The organic carbon released was fractionated by 
molecular weight and the fractions of molecular weight less than 
500 (18.5 percent), 10,000-30,000 (30 percent), and 300,000 (15.4 
percent) were the most dominant. Bacterioplankton utilized a 
significant portion of the released organic carbon, ranging from 



154 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



18 to 77 percent. Released organic carbon not utilized by bacteria 
was con^posed of high nnolecular weight compounds. 

Comparative Studies of Crabs 

In continuing studies of life-history strategies of crabs, patterns 
of growth and reproduction were compared of marine and estuarine 
species along the east and west coasts of North America. Analysis 
of the reproductive output of thirty-five species from nine families 
of crabs showed that size at sexual maturity, egg size and the 
number of broods of eggs per year are the key variables in their 
reproductive strategies. However, the mass of eggs produced in 
each brood is apparently limited to about 10 percent of the female's 
body weight by the volume of the body cavity available for ac- 
cumulation of yolk in all but an unusual species that lives inside 
oysters. 

Various families of crabs exhibit distinctive patterns of repro- 
ductive strategies in which there are evolutionary trade-offs be- 
tween egg size, the number of eggs per brood, and the number 
of broods produced per year. Families of crabs are also character- 
ized by distinctive and predictable patterns of molting and growth. 
However, in zoogeographic comparisons of populations of six 
species from two families of shore crabs, size at sexual maturity 
and length of the reproductive season were shown to be important 
intraspecific variables. In addition, the infection rates of parasitic 
isopod and cirripede crustaceans, which castrate the crab hosts, 
were shown to be important ecological variables affecting the 
ecology of separate populations along the coast. This array of 
studies indicates that the Hfe histories of crabs involve complex 
interactions between parasitism, seasonal cycles, geographic varia- 
tion, and evolutionary constraints. 

Estuarine Predators 

The activities of predatory animals are an important factor in the 
regulation of invertebrate populations in estuaries. The impacts 
of predatory blue crabs and two common species of fish (spot and 
hogchoker) feeding on the bottom-dwelling invertebrates of Rhode 
River were measured over the summer season in 1982. Seasonal 
changes in diet of the three predators were compared by analyzing 

Science I 155 



stomach contents. Crabs had the greatest impact on whole clams, 
whereas the two fishes consumed amphipod crustaceans, poly- 
chaete worms, and clam siphons. 



EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH 

"Education" is most often used to refer to "formal" education, i.e., 
to the learning that occurs in the course of formal studies at specific 
institutions designed for this purpose. The education program at 
the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies looks at 
learning and education from a broader perspective. Formal educa- 
tional settings are considered as simply one subset of a multitude 
of teaching/learning situations through which adults and children 
transfer and acquire new information, skills, and attitudes. Over 
the last nine years, the education staff at cbces has sought to in- 
crease its understanding of the situational and behavioral factors 
that affect learning. 

This was the second year of a major new initiative undertaken 
by the education program to investigate the role of the family in 
the promotion and maintenance of scientific literacy. To date, this 
research has encompassed five experimental studies carried out in 
collaboration with educators at the Virginia Institute of Marine 
Science (vims). Using a survey method, basic data were collected 
on the backgrounds, attitudes, expectations, and motivations that 
characterize the family groups visiting local science and technology 
centers. (Family groups comprise 60 percent of the visitors.) In 
addition, a detailed observational study of family groups in mu- 
seums has been undertaken. An instrument that can be used to 
encode ongoing verbal and nonverbal behavior for family members 
visiting the museum was developed and is being used to record 
spontaneous teaching/learning interactions that occur between 
family members. The structure of these interactions, the precipitat- 
ing and terminating events characteristic of such interactions, and 
variations in the character of these interactions for different within- 
family dyads are being examined in detail. 

In order to place these findings within the broader framework 
of family activities, a third project has examined attitudes toward 
family situations in general. Parents and children rated character- 
istics of various family situations according to how much such 



156 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



situations contributed to making family time successful. The 
eighty-eight situation descriptors included items that described 
the goal of the family situations ("it's education/' " it's fun," etc.), 
and its setting ("you are outside," "a friend comes along"). A 
number of significant points of intergenerational agreement and 
conflict became evident as the children and adults sorted these 
items. For example, both children and adults viewed authoritarian 
situations and situations in which they must get something else 
done at the same time as potentially negative for the family. By 
contrast, situational items reminiscent of a carefree summer vaca- 
tion were highly rated by both groups. Children appear to value 
competitive situations and situations with clear material outcomes, 
while adults see these as more negative. 

Finally, two studies have compared the effectiveness of specific 
interventions in increasing family participation in science activi- 
ties. One, in collaboration with vims has assessed the ability of 
school-based supplementary science programs to encourage family 
participation in informal science activities in the home, local 
museums, or nature centers. Preliminary results indicate that the 
students were generally able to influence family members to par- 
ticipate with them in take-home science activities. The overall 
participation rate of student families was 73 percent, and those 
who were categorized as "middle class," "Title I," or "disadvan- 
taged" all participated at comparable rates. These results suggest 
that supplementary take-home activities are highly effective means 
of fostering educational activities in the home independent of socio- 
economic class. 

Investigations of learning in a museum setting were conducted 
at the Florida State Museum of Natural History in collaboration 
with staff members at the University of Florida. One study focused 
on how museum visitors allocate their time and attention between 
(a) the museum exhibit, (b) the museum setting, (c) interacting 
with the visitor's own social group, (d) other people in the museum 
outside of the visitor's own social group, (e) focusing attention 
upon himself, and (f) no discernible attention category. The 
visitor's dominant focus of attention was scored every five sec- 
onds. Preliminary analysis reveals that visitors consistently allo- 
cated roughly two-thirds of their attention to the museum ex- 
hibits, one-sixth of their attention to their own social group, and 



Science I 157 



one-sixth to the setting, over the first thirty to forty minutes of a 
visit. Attention to other visitors and to self was neghgible. This 
pattern of attention allocation occurred regardless of exhibit type, 
e.g., passive versus interactive, regardless of exhibit content, e.g., 
biological versus anthropological, and across all visitors. 

A second study investigated cognitive mapping. Subjects were 
asked to explore, and enjoy, the museum, and upon completion 
of their visit, they were asked to draw two maps of the museum — 
one free-form, the other using a preexisting outline. Three days 
later, unannounced, they were asked to repeat this task. Preliminary 
results showed that the detail and number of items mentioned 
increased from map 1 to map 3. This suggests that some consolida- 
tion process was at work over the intervening days that facilitated 
spatial memory. 



Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute 

Some notable events have occurred this year at the Smithsonian 
Tropical Research Institute (stri). One of these was the moving 
of the library to a new building. The library was first organized 
on Barro Colorado Island by former director Martin Moynihan 
with the assistance of Carol Bennett in the late 1950s. In 1962 
Alcira Mejia was hired as the first librarian and she remained in 
charge for the next eighteen years, making the daily commute to 
the island by train and boat. 

In 1967, in order to solve growing logistical problems and to 
serve a wider spectrum of potential users, the library was moved 
to the Ancon research building. In this location it quickly became 
the major information source for biologists from the universities 
and schools in Panama, as well as a mecca for visiting biologists 
from all over the world. It continued to grow until it was straining 
the limits, both of space and of structural strength, of the Ancon 
building. A modern, self-contained library building became an 
important goal of the director. Dr. Ira Rubinoff, who explored 
avenues of possible funds. His efforts finally came to fruition with 
the construction of a fine building adjoining the Tivoli administra- 
tion center. The new library was opened on April 7, 1983, with 



158 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science, officiating for 
the Smithsonian, and Dr. Caspar Garcia de Paredes, Minister of 
Heahh, representing the government of Panama. 

Another event of 1983, which was of major importance to re- 
searchers at STRi, was the cHmatic anomaly that had begun in 
early 1982 and also had widespread effects in the rest of the world. 
Research in both the terrestrial and the marine environments was 
affected by the atypical weather conditions that followed. 

The dry season in central Panama generally begins in January 
and ends abruptly with heavy daily rains in April. Measurements 
taken in the Environmental Sciences Programme on Barro Colo- 
rado Island showed that the weather became dry in November 
1982 and the ensuing dry season was drier than any since 1925. 
Mean monthly temperatures were between two and five degrees 
centigrade higher than during any year since measurements were 
started ten years ago. The temperature of the soil was also higher 
than normal, while the soil moisture content was lower. The inci- 
dence of deciduousness in the forest trees was higher than usual 
and the lack of humidity slowed the decomposition of the fallen 
leaves, so that the amount of litter on the forest floor became far 
greater than usual. Some trees lost their leaves for the first time in 
five years, so that the canopy was much more open than in past 
dry seasons. And some trees that generally flower annually did 
not flower at all. 

The Environmental Sciences Program (esp) has been concerned 
with measuring climatic and biological changes on Barro Colorado 
Island for the past twelve years. The resulting "base-line" data 
are essential if we are to hope to understand the effects of events 
such as the dry season of 1982-83, and they serve to emphasize 
the need for permanent research stations in the tropics. When the 
ESP started, the data were almost entirely manually collected. Elec- 
tronic data recorders were available, but they were simply not 
reliable enough to function in an environment where "nonbiode- 
gradable" substances crumble to dust after a few months' exposure. 
The situation has changed, and this year practically all the physical 
data are being automatically recorded. This makes it possible to 
record more parameters, and it enables Donald Windsor, the staff 
member who coordinates the stri esp, to spend more of his time 
on data analysis. 



Science I 159 



One of the important new parameters now being recorded is the 
amount of carbon dioxide in the forest. John Sager and Bernard 
Goldberg of the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center have 
set up sensors at five levels of the esp tower to record the amount 
of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. This will provide one of the 
best obtainable indices of the actual productivity of the forest as 
it changes from one time of the day to the next, and from season 
to season. 

Much of the data gathered by researchers working in the esp 
was brought together and published in a volume edited by Egbert 
Leigh, Stanley Rand, and Donald Windsor. Entitled The Ecology 
of a Tropical Forest, the volume contains thirty-two papers that 
describe the vegetation of Barro Colorado Island and show how 
the response of the plant community to the seasonal alternation 
of drought and rain serves to regulate the different animal popu- 
lations. 

Another important event of the year was the spread throughout 
Central Panama of the Africanized honeybee, which arrived in the 
latter half of 1982. David Roubik, of the stri staff, has been 
monitoring these insects as they advance toward Mexico and North 
America from their origin in Brazil. Roubik is particularly inter- 
ested in the effects that this new and aggressive bee will have on 
the resident populations of pollinators. He and a diverse group of 
coworkers and students from universities in North, Central, and 
South America have been studying many different kinds of pollina- 
tors. In order to facilitate the study they are preparing a "pollen 
library" — a catalogue of 1,500 different kinds of pollen grains 
carried by insects that have visited flowers. This information will 
be used to determine the extent to which Africanized bees are 
using the same resource as the resident pollinators. 

Roubik's group, which is also studying other resources used by 
bees, incidentally discovered one species of stingless bee that is 
an obligate carrion eater — the first known necrophagous bee. 

Two other interesting studies on necrophagy were performed at 
STRI this year. Polly Zheng, from the Kunming Institute in the 
Peoples' Republic of China, spent a year at stri studying various 
aspects of bird ecology and behavior. She began with a study of 
the breeding biology gf motmots and trogons on Barro Colorado 
Island, then she and Neal Smith of the stri staff cooperated on a 



160 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Polly Zheng, of the Kunming Institute in the Peoples' Republic of China, 
spent a year at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama study- 
ing bird ecology and behavior. Here, she takes measurements from an anaes- 
thetized black vulture before releasing it. 



study of the feeding ecology of the black vulture — a bird that 
plays an innportant part in maintaining cleanliness in the city of 
Panama. They marked a total of 639 vultures with plastic wing 
tags so that they could determine movement patterns, flocking 
tendencies, and other aspects of the birds' lives. 

David Houston, of the University of Glasgow, worked on the 
feeding ecology of the carrion-eating guild, in the forest of Barro 
Colorado Island. He found that turkey vultures were always the 
first carrion eaters to arrive at baits that he put out, and hypothe- 
sizes that their keen sense of smell is an adaptation to finding 
recently dead animals in forested conditions. 

This year Egbert Leigh of the stri staff began a theoretical in- 
vestigation of possible modes of speciation: under what circum- 
stances might one expect "punctuated equilibrium," where most 
evolutionary change is associated with the actual process of 
speciation? 

He also continued to work with R. T. Paine, of the University 
of Washington, on an analysis of the ecological organization of 
the rocky intertidal at Tatoosh. This community is so different 
from a rain forest that it helps to set the forest in perspective. 
The intertidal is as open a system as a field of sugar cane, de- 
pendent on an influx of nutrients and even on the energy of the 
waves, which maintain the lushness of kelps and mussels of the 
outer coast by knocking away organisms that would eat them, 
enhancing the capacity for interference competition of suitably 
adapted occupants, and by stirring the fronds of the kelps, permit- 
ting light to be spread more evenly over three times the leaf area 
per unit ground area possible in a rain forest. 

The mainland area that is contiguous to the eastern border of 
the Barro Colorado Nature Monument has been internationally 
known as a rich biological reserve for some years, stri researchers 
have worked there since long before it became well known and, 
indeed, did much to contribute to that fame. The area was de- 
clared a National Park in 1981 (Parque Nacional Soberania) and, 
as part of a cooperative agreement between stri and the Ministry 
of Agriculture, stri researchers continue to work there. Teresa 
Townshend, from the University of Wales, took advantage of 
the many freshwater streams that flow through the park to study 
the effects of food availability on the reproduction in the cichlid 



162 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



fish there, and Wolfgang Nentwig, from the University of Mar- 
burg in West Germany, and Arthur Decae, of the University of 
Gronigen, the Netherlands, studied various aspects of spider ecol- 
ogy. Decae is beginning a three-year study of the predatory and 
antipredator strategies of the little-studied tarantulas and trap-door 
spiders. 

James Karr, of the University of Illinois at Champaign, has 
been studying the birds of the park area for the last ten years. 
This year he and a group of his students spent nine months in the 
area, and the peculiarly dry dry season led them to the interesting 
discovery that the horizontal distribution of birds in the forest is 
more dependent upon very subtle humidity gradients than it is, 
for example, on the distribution of food items, so that it is possible 
to find birds at levels where the food is unsuitable if these are 
the only levels with the appropriate humidity conditions. 

Rachel Levin, of Cornell University, continued her studies on 
the song duetting of the Bay Wren in the Parque Nacional 5o- 
berania. Most female passerine birds do not sing, but these wrens 
indulge in an incredibly precise duetting that is often initiated by 
the female. Levin is interested in the function of this behavior, 
and has been awarded a predoctoral fellowship to continue her 
studies in the future. In a joint study with Eliot Brenowitz, of the 
University of California, they have found that the singing behavior 
of both sexes is accompanied by a proliferation of special brain 
cells, which subside again when the singing season ends. 

Leonard Freed, a stri postdoctoral fellow from the University 
of Iowa, also studied wrens, but he is interested in the House 
Wren, a bird that occurs from Canada, south to Argentina. Freed is 
examining the ecological factors that control the number of eggs 
in the clutch of the tropical breeders of this species. Working in 
the Las Cumbres area, outside Panama City, he found himself 
facing some interesting logistical difficulties. He put out artificial 
nesting boxes for the birds and found that snakes are not only 
able to detect when there are baby birds in the nest, but to climb 
a five-foot-high metal pole that is thickly coated with grease, to 
eat the babies. He found that the clutch size of his wrens was 
limited by food in the very dry 1983, although this had not been 
true in 1982. 

Stephen Hubbell, who holds a joint appointment with stri and 



Science I 163 



the University of Iowa, Robin Foster, of the Chicago Field Museum, 
and their group of students from the United States, and Central 
and South America, have finished the initial mapping of their 
l,000-by-500-meter plot (50 hectares or 120 acres). They have 
measured, tagged, identified, and plotted the coordinates of all 
238,000 plants with stems of more than one centimeter diameter. 
They have also measured the heights of the canopy in five-meter 
squares, and have determined the reproductive status of every 
adult tree in the plot. Their initial analysis indicates that, contrary 
to the prevailing ideas, most species tend to occur clumped, many 
are randomly distributed, while a few appear to maintain uniform 
spacing between individuals. In 1984 the team will conduct a 
mortality survey of all trees of more than twenty centimeters 
diameter, and then, in 1985, will begin the first repeat survey in 
order to determine the survivorship and growth rates of the trees 
in the plot as well as the numbers and types of recruits to the 
population. 

Many field biologists, even if they are not actually studying the 
trees, can derive a considerable benefit from knowing the precise 
identification and location of the vegetation in their study area. 
Even before the Hubbell-Foster map was completed, other re- 
searchers began to benefit from it. Both Bob Kinsey, of the Uni- 
versity of California at Davis, and Leslie Johnson, of the Univer- 
sity of Iowa, for instance, used the convenience of the map to 
make their censuses of insects more meaningful; and postdoctoral 
student Diana Wheeler, from Duke University, whose interest is 
centered on the physiology of caste determination in turtle ants, 
used the canopy height data to aid in an additional study on the 
altitudinal distribution of ants. 

Other studies, such as that of Eugene Shupp, of the University 
of Iowa, which is aimed at answering the question: "Do more 
seedlings of Faramea occidentalis survive from years of 'mast' 
fruiting than in normal years?" are more intimately concerned 
with the purposes of the mapping project. 

A subject that has been of wide concern to researchers on Barro 
Colorado Island for several years is the biology of seed dispersal, 
and it is obvious that a knowledge of the location of all the 
individuals of the species under study would be very valuable to 
such projects. One of the most difficult questions to answer in 



164 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



seed dispersal studies is: "Which seedhng came from which 
parent?" Preliminary data gathered by James Hamrick, of the 
University of Kansas at Lawrence, who will be working in the 
Hubbell-Foster plot for the next three years, indicate that there 
may be enough genetic variability between individuals of at least 
some species for this question to be answered electrophoretically. 

Victoria Sork, of the University of Missouri, continued her 
studies on the seed dispersal biology of Gustavia superba on the 
Hubbell-Foster plot, and David Hamill, of the University of Iowa, 
has been working there for some time, both on the mapping project 
and on his own research project, in which he is examining the 
survival value of seed dispersal. He finds that the seedlings of 
Ocotea skutchii survive better when their density per unit area is 
low, possibly because of water as a limiting factor. Since seedlings 
that are dispersed farthest from their parent tend to be at the 
lowest density, they have a greater probability of survival through 
dry periods. 

Carol Augspurger, of the University of Illinois at Urbana, and 
her students are also working on seed dispersal, but are chiefly 
concerned with those plants whose seeds are dispersed by the wind. 
They have studied the effects of fungus on the mortality of seeds 
on the Hubbell-Foster plot and were also responsible for one of 
the more spectacular field experiments on Barro Colorado this 
year: they released thousands of seeds, some real and others that 
they had made themselves to emphasize certain characteristics, in 
order to determine which of those characteristics enhance the 
flight of wind-dispersed seeds. 

In the evolution of predator-prey relationships there is a con- 
stant changing of the fine balance between the ability of the 
predator to capture, and the ability of the intended prey to escape. 
In order to fly in darkness, bats developed an echo-location system. 
James Fullard, of the University of Toronto, is studying moths 
that have evolved hearing organs capable of detecting the approach 
of sound-emitting bats. But he also has found that some bats 
have evolved echo-locating frequencies that the moths, upon which 
they prey, cannot detect. 

Jacqueline Belwood, from the University of Florida, and two 
Exxon-supported students from the University of Panama are 
interested in another predator-prey relationship involving bats. 



Science I 165 



Katydids call to advertise for mates, but bats that eat katydids 
are also able to home in on the sounds. Belwood and her students 
are attempting to find what measures the katydids use to attract 
mates but not predators. As an added bonus to their project, they 
are finding out a great deal about the diets of insectivorous bats in 
general. 

There has been considerable concern in the past that Barro 
Colorado Island is too small to support viable populations of some 
of its inhabitants. It is thus reassuring to note the most recent 
findings of a study that was begun in 1977 by Russell Greenbe'rg 
and Judy Gradwohl from the National Zoological Park. They have 
monitored the populations of several deep-forest, insectivorous 
birds through the wettest^ wet season (1981) and the driest dry 
season (1983) ever recorded on the island, and they find that, 
despite the considerable temporal variations in the abundance of 
food that accompanied the climatic extremes, not only the popula- 
tions of breeding adults, but also the territorial boundaries held 
by breeding pairs, have remained essentially the same, even 
though the individuals involved may change. 

Activities at stri in the field of human ecology have also been 
increasing in recent years. Since August 1981 Richard Cooke, who 
has been a stri research associate since 1976 and was recently 
appointed to the staff, and Anthony Ranere, of Temple University 
in Philadelphia, have been directing a multidisciplinary research 
project in Central Pacific Panama. Entitled the "Proyecto Santa 
Maria," it has been designed to investigate the changing relation- 
ships between prehistoric populations and their environment in a 
single tropical watershed basin — that of the Rio Santa Maria. 
Particular emphasis has been placed upon the coastal zone, where 
the geologists on the team have been undertaking a coring pro- 
gram to determine how changes in sea level, and sedimentation 
rates, have affected human settlement and subsistence practices. 
The archeological team has been employing a dual system of 
surveys, both probabilistic and purposive, to investigate the paleo- 
demography of the region. The botanical team has been concen- 
trating on pollen and phytolith analysis of archeological sites and 
sediment cores, to arrive at a history of human modification of 
the environment and of the origins and development of agriculture. 

Phytoliths are microscopic bodies of silica formed within the 



166 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



cells of living plants and are deposited into the soil when the plant 
dies and decays. Because they are mineralized, they endure, while 
other parts of the plant may disappear. The phytoliths of some 
plants, such as maize and squash, are readily identifiable. Dolores 
Piperno, a Smithsonian Postdoctoral Fellow from Temple Univer- 
sity, is using phytoliths found in the Santa Maria project and else- 
where in Panama to study agricultural and vegetational history. 

In the Santa Maria project, nearly 400 archeological sites have 
been recorded and evaluated, and forty sediment cores taken. Two 
sites — the Cueva de los Vampiros and La Mula — have indicated 
that human populations were using the coastal zone before 5000 
B.C. At the former site, bifacial thinning flakes were associated 
with a date of 6610 b.c. (plus or minus 160 years). This is the 
oldest carbon-14 date yet recorded from Lower Central Amer- 
ica. Maize was probably cultivated in the region during the 
Late Preceramic (5000-2500 b.c.) to judge from the phytolith and 
pollen evidence from the Cueva de los Ladrones (in Code pro- 
vince). Large nucleated agricultural villages are in evidence by the 
middle of the first millennium b.c. More than 150 of the recorded 
sites do not have ceramics, indicating that the Preceramic popula- 
tions in the region were far more widespread than was hitherto 
imagined. Financing has been requested for the Santa Maria 
project for the next two years, and it is expected that the research 
will continue to provide many surprising data about the nature 
of Precolumbian adaptations to Tropical areas. 

Another worker in the field of human ecology is Stanley Hecka- 
don, a citizen of Panama who is obtaining his doctorate from the 
University of Essex. His work was supported by an Exxon fellow- 
ship this year. Heckadon is studying the socioecology of the ex- 
panding beef cattle ranching front in Panama. This process is the 
main cause for the transformation of the tropical forest into 
pasture lands for the extensive rearing of cattle for the internal 
market. One of the questions he is concerned with answering is: 
What are the socioeconomic forces behind the massive emigration 
of the peasants from the interior toward the wet forest, and the 
impact of the peasant technology on the ecosystem? 

The deforestation crisis in the tropics is now widely recognized. 
Even the "campesino," who is chiefly responsible, is often perfectly 
aware that he is contributing to the destruction of his livelihood. 



Science I 167 



But, as he will ask: "What are the alternatives?" The methods of 
slash-and-bum agriculture have evolved over several thousand 
years of trial and error. The soils are too poor to sustain permanent 
agricultural plots and, as long as the proportion of potential agri- 
culturalists to the amount of available forest remained sufficiently 
low so that land could be allowed to lie fallow long enough 
to recover, the system worked. The crisis is a simple function of 
the most serious ecological problem of our earth — too many 
people. If alternatives to destroying the forest are to be found, 
then it is the obvious social obligation of scientists working in the 
tropics to try to find them. 

Early this year, the W. Alton Jones Foundation responded very 
generously to a proposal submitted by Michael Robinson, deputy 
director, and Gilberto Ocana, superintendent of the Barro Colorado 
Nature Monument, which would explore alternative ways to exploit 
the forest, without destroying it. 

In one of the projects supported by the W. Alton Jones grant, 
crops that are new to Panama are being planted in areas of the 
Barro Colorado Nature Monument that were already degraded 
when they were placed under the custody of stri, under terms of 
the 1979 Panama Canal Treaty. In another, the game animals of 
the region are being managed and their food supplies enhanced, 
with a view to finding first, how much protein can be derived 
from the forest on a sustained basis, and second, to what extent 
this yield can be increased. In association with this project is 
another in which attempts are being made to raise pacas, one of 
the favorite game animals of the neotropics, in captivity. If a 
stock can be derived that will breed readily in captivity, a whole 
new cottage industry could be started. There is also an aquaculture 
project in which attempts will be made to see what kinds of non- 
destructive exploitation are possible with native plants and aquatic 
animals. 

Finally, there is a project to study the feasibility of intensive, 
sustained exploitation of the green iguana. Iguanas are a highly 
prized food item in much of tropical America. Their eggs are a 
special delicacy and are believed by many to have aphrodisiacal 
properties. The exploitation of the eggs has led to the disappear- 
ance of iguanas through much of their natural range. Stanley Rand 
of the STRi staff and Dagmar Werner, the project manager, are 



168 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Brian Bock, University of Tennessee, worked on the Iguana Project. As part 
of this STRI program, a number of iguanas were raised from eggs to nearly 
yearhng size this past year — for the first time in captivity. 



working on a program to enhance the breeding and survival of 
iguanas in the wild, as well as to raise them in captivity. This year 
they have raised a large group from eggs to nearly yearling size — 
the first time that this has been done in captivity. 

The W. Alton Jones Foundation projects are all being done near 
the interface between the Nature Monument and the surrounding 
slash-and-burn farmers. Some of these people, who live on the 
very edge of the cash economy, are employed in the projects and 
the hope is that they, and others, will benefit from whatever 
successes the projects enjoy. 

This has been a year of major upheavals in the marine realm, 
which have kept marine laboratories scientists busy. Early in 
1983 Peter Glynn of the stri staff noticed that corals in the 
Eastern Pacific from Costa Rica to the Galapagos were losing 
their symbiotic algae and becoming bleached; many were dying. 
He and postdoctoral fellow Sandra Gilchrist, of Florida State 
University, have been trying to identify the cause of this phe- 
nomenon. Glynn hypothesizes that one of the causes may be the 
warming of the water in the area, because of a variety of factors 
centering around the peculiar weather conditions of this year. 
It is also possible that concentrations of pesticides washed out 
to sea from agricultural activities on the nearby mainland area 
have reached the point where they have reduced the corals' 
capacity to survive in the face of other stresses. 

Other marine biologists of the stri staff have been continuing 
their regular research. Ross Robertson has been studying the 
reproductive cycles and behavioral ecology of coral reef fishes 
around the San Bias Islands in the Caribbean. Peter Glynn has 
continued his research on the ecology of Pacific coral reefs. Haris 
Lessios has been studying the process of speciation of sea urchins 
that were separated by the emergence of the Isthmus of Panama. 
He is also working on the reproductive cycles of Caribbean and 
Eastern Pacific echinoids, the ability of corals to repair wounds to 
their tissues, and the effects of sea urchins on corals. Ira Rubinoff, 
working with Jeffrey Graham, of the Scripps Institution of Ocean- 
ography, and Jorge Motta, a circulatory system specialist from the 
Gorgas Army Hospital, have been investigating the diving behav- 
ior of yellow-bellied sea snakes. They find that the snakes are 
diving deeper and staying down longer than was previously 



170 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



thought and are now trying to find out why the snakes are doing 
this, since they generally feed quite near the surface. 

John Christy, a three-year visiting scholar, is investigating the 
reproductive and foraging strategies of fiddler crabs. Sandra 
Gilchrist has finished her study of competition between hermit 
crabs. She has been investigating the criteria they use to select 
shells and finds that they probably learn when a shell is actually 
in the process of becoming vacant by chemicals given off when 
the original occupant is attacked by a predator. Another post- 
doctoral fellow, Myra Shulman, is trying to discern the reasons 
why juveniles of certain reef-dwelling fish tend to be brightly 
colored. Predoctoral fellow Lani West is investigating the reasons 
for individual differences in the diets of carnivorous marine snails, 
and another predoctoral fellow. Ken Clifton, is working on the 
feeding strategies of Caribbean parrot fish. 

Bruce Menge and Jane Lubchenco, from Oregon State Univer- 
sity, have finished a long-term study of the ecological organization 
of the rocky intertidal communities in the bay of Panama. This 
study was designed to allow comparisons with similar communi- 
ties in the temperate zone in an effort to assess the effects of 
stability and diversity on community organization. 

Robert Warner and his students, from the University of Cali- 
fornia at Santa Barbara, have been continuing their studies of the 
life history of the blue-headed wrasse, Thalassoma hifaciatum, in 
the San Bias Islands. This fish starts life as a female and changes 
into a male when it achieves social dominance. Warner has been 
measuring the costs and benefits of various reproductive and 
foraging strategies associated with this sex change. 

One of the results of El Nifio-related climatic peculiarities was 
the influx into the bay of Panama of large numbers of sea birds 
from Peru and Ecuador, some species of which have never been 
recorded there before. Neal Smith and Gene Montgomery, of the 
STRi staff, studied various aspects of this unusual migration. 
Montgomery and various associates, and Exxon-supported assis- 
tants from Panama, Ecuador, Colombia, and Brazil, and have been 
monitoring a nesting colony of Brown Pelicans on Taboga Island, 
off Panama City, over the past few years. They found that 1982 
and 1983 were poor years for the pelicans, which raised only .05 
to .07 chicks per nest (as opposed to 1.8 per nest in 1981). Mont- 



Science / 171 



gomery blames the lack of nesting success on the absence of the 
dry-season upwelling that usually occurs in the bay of Panama 
when the trade winds blow. 

A varied research program was carried out around the Galeta 
Island Laboratory on the Atlantic Coast of Panama during 1983. 
The mangrove lagoons around Galeta form an ideal foraging 
ground for a number of species of herons and egrets. A curious 
fact about this group of birds is that the adults of some of them 
are white and the juveniles of others are white but change to a 
darker color when they reach maturity. Gloria Sullivan Caldwell, 
a postdoctoral fellow from the University of California at Berkeley, 
has been studying the advantages of light and dark coloration in 
herons. After many hours of field observations in mangrove 
swamps and reef flats, she has found that white herons are more 
difficult to see by their intended underwater prey, but they are 
more attractive to predators such as hawks and crocodiles. 

Stri research associate Roy Caldwell, also from Berkeley, and 
his graduate students have been studying the ecology and behavior 
of the mantis shrimp. These aggressive crustaceans spend much of 
their time fighting for refuge cavities on the reef flats. If animals 
are unable to fight, they will "bluff" to deter an intruder. This casts 
doubt on the generally accepted idea that communication among 
animals is necessarily honest. 

Eldridge Adams has also been studying the ants that live in 
the mangrove trees. Colonies of the most abundant species have 
divided up the mangrove forest into nonoverlapping territories. 
The ants zealously guard their territorial boundaries, and narrow 
"no-ant's lands" exist between adjacent territories. Within col- 
onies, communications are good, and intrusions by other colonies 
are quickly countered with an appropriately gauged response, 
which may range from a small skirmish to a battle involving the 
entire colony. 

Adams has also been working with Sally Levings, from Harvard 
University, and Stephen Garrity, from the University of Massa- 
chusetts at Amherst, on the behavioral ecology of termites in 
mangrove forests. In most forests, termite tunnels are chiefly 
subterranean, but in the swampy mangrove habitat, the termite 
tunnels are on the surface, so foraging and interactions between 



172 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



colonies can be directly observed. Like the ants of the mangroves, 
the termites aggressively defend their colony boundaries, and 
intercolony battles often result in the death of thousands of 
workers and soldiers. 

Garrity has been supported by a predoctoral fellowship while 
he conducts his research on the ecology of the flora and fauna of 
the intertidal rocky shores on the Caribbean and Pacific coasts of 
Panama. On the Caribbean coast, field experiments have demon- 
strated that the abundance of intertidal algae is controlled by a 
combination of physical factors, herbivory, and competition with 
other marine organisms. His studies on the Pacific coast have 
shown that the distributions and abundance of intertidal snails 
are strongly influenced both by physical stresses and by predation 
by fish, crabs, and shore birds. 

John Cubit of the stri staff, in collaboration with Peter Griffith, 
Walter Adey, and James Norris of the National Museum of 
Natural History, have measured rates of primary production and 
respiration of the reef flat community at Galeta. Their computer- 
ized system of instruments has better resolution than the usual 
manual methods, and they have found that, over the course of a 
day, rates of production and respiration are more variable than 
was previously thought. 

Cubit, Ricardo Thompson, and Jeff Burgett have continued the 
long-term monitoring of the physical environment and biota of 
the Galeta reef, a project that is now in its tenth year. The past 
two years have been unusual: 1982 was the driest on record and 
in January, 1983, almost the entire population of the ubiquitous, 
long-spined sea urchin, Diadema, suddenly died off. Similar mass 
mortalities followed at other locations in the Caribbean. Other 
species of urchins were not affected. However, in August 1983, 
some species of corals at Galeta were showing the same symptoms 
of bleaching that preceded the mass mortalities of corals on the 
Pacific coast of Panama. Stri staff members Haris Lessios, Ross 
Robertson, and Cubit have been trying to identify the cause of 
these alarming dieoffs in the Caribbean. 

Judith Connor from Berkeley, working with Cubit and Norris, 
has completed a two-year survey of the monthly changes in the 
distribution, abundance, and reproductive state of algae on the 
Galeta reef. She has documented strong seasonal fluctuations in 



Science I 173 



algal abundance and has shown that the algae reproduce only 
when general growing conditions are good. 

The delicate ecological balance of the coral reef, and of the 
mangrove swamp alike, are easily upset. Argelis Roman, Gloria 
Batista, and Cubit have been working with the municipal govern- 
ment of Colon to try to persuade it to set up a coastal park in the 
Galeta area, which would preserve a section of mangrove forest 
and coral reef against exploitation. 

Two important international gatherings of scientists were held 
at STRi this year. The first was a workshop on the green iguana 
and was organized by Stanley Rand and Dagmar Werner. On 
May 26 twenty-five scientists from the United States, Central and 
South America, and Europe met to exchange information and 
discuss experiences about the management of various wild animals 
for human use. The focus of attention was on iguana management. 

The second meeting was the Ninth International Congress of 
Arachnology, which was jointly sponsored by stri and the Uni- 
versity of Panama and was held in Panama City from August 1 
to 8. This was the first international Arachnology Congress ever 
to be held outside of Europe and the choice of Panama as the 
venue was, in part, a reflection of the leading role of stri in tropical 
arachnology. More than 130 delegates attended, from twenty-four 
countries. Stri researchers Michael Robinson, William Eberhard, 
and Yael Lubin all presented papers at the congress and, with 
Barbara Robinson and Diomedes Quintero of the University of 
Panama, were responsible for its organization. 

Several stri staff members held visiting professorships at dif- 
ferent universities this year. Olga Linares was a visiting professor 
at Stanford University's anthropology department in the fall of 
1982. She is completing a book titled Technology, Ritual and the 
Labor Process among the Diola of Senegal. It describes the results 
of her twenty-year study of those people. Peter Glynn spent a 
semester as a visiting lecturer at the University of Hawaii, and 
Robert Dressier taught, first at an Organization for Tropical 
Studies course in Costa Rica, and then at the University of Costa 
Rica at San Jose. Dressler's recently published book on the orchids, 
now in its second printing, continues to receive acclaim and is now 
recognized as the best taxonomic treatment of that huge and 
complex family. Another volume that is achieving widespread 



174 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



recognition from our scientific colleagues in Latin America is Evo- 
lucion en los Tropicos, which was published this year by stri and 
the University of Panama. This volume, which was edited by 
Georgina de Alba of stri and Roberta Rubinoff, formerly of stri 
and now at the Smithsonian Office of Fellowships and Grants, is a 
compendium of papers by stri scientists that were originally pub- 
lished in English, translated into Spanish. 

Professor Ernest Williams, from Harvard University, held a 
Regents Fellowship at stri this year. He continued his research 
on Anolis, a lizard genus with many interesting species in the 
lands surrounding the Caribbean basin. While he was at stri. 
Professor Williams gave a seminar workshop on Anolis that was 
popular and well attended. He and Stanley Rand went to Cuba, 
where they studied the ecology of twelve species of anoles. Their 
invitation to Cuba was in reciprocation to one made by stri to 
scientists from the Cuban Academy of Sciences, three of whom 
had visited stri earlier in the year. 

An exhibition. Beauties of the Coral Reef, from the Smithsonian 
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, was shown in Panama, 
at the Atlapa Convention Center, from November 1 through 18. 
The captions and text were translated into Spanish at stri, and 
the closing date corresponded with the Marine Sciences Symposium 
Day, for which high school science students from throughout the 
republic assembled in the convention center. 



Science / 175 




The Subsiding of the Waters of the Deluge, Thomas Cole's prophetic and 
beautifully observed landscape of 1829, is a major example by this pre- 
eminent Hudson River artist — and one of the most important acquisitions 
of the National Museum of American Art in recent years. 



Smithsonian Year • ip8} 
HISTORY AND ART 



JOHN E. REINHARDT, 
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR HISTORY AND ART 



Anacostia Neighborhood Museum 

An innovator in bringing exhibitions and ancillary and interpre- 
tive programs to nontraditional as well as traditional museum 
audiences, the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum (anm) is, in the 
words of Secretary Ripley, "no longer an experiment. . . . The 
vision that ... all shared of a neighborhood museum, located in an 
inner city community, whose purpose would be to transmit and 
preserve historical linkages important to the residents of that 
community and to the Nation has been realized." With the 
transfer of the anm from the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Public Service to the Office of the Assistant Secretary for History 
and Art, a significant benchmark in the history of this museum 
has been reached. 

Through exhibitions and publications, the anm has continued 
to "increase and diffuse knowledge." Cooperating with the Smith- 
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sites) to reach a 
national audience, the museum researched, designed, and fabri- 
cated multiple copies of the exhibition Out of Africa. The anm 
gave primary data and photographic materials to support the sites 
poster version of its exhibition Black Women: Achievements 
Against the Odds, and the GMG Publishing Company of New 
York produced the third edition of a calendar based on this very 
popular show. 

Afro-American art exhibitions celebrated the work of artists 



177 




This cast bronze bust of Frederick Douglass by Ed Dwight, 
Denver-based artist specializing in presenting black history 
through sculpture, is in the permanent collection of the Ana- 
costia Neighborhood Museum. 



John Robinson, Larry Lebby, and Lou and Di Stovall, and exposed 
Washington audiences to local talent. The anm also exhibited a 
seldom-seen Smithsonian collection, "Outstanding Americans of 
Negro Origin," which attracted national attention after coverage 
in Smithsonian magazine. Publishing efforts included a catalogue 
to accompany Through Their Eyes: The Art of Lou and Di Stovall 
and a book of selected poems by Solomon G. Brown, an Anacostia 
citizen and a valued member of the Smithsonian's International 
Exchange Service for over fifty years (1852-1904). 

Archives of American Art 

In fiscal year 1983 the Archives of American Art (aaa) acquired 
nearly 300 collections of records totaling half a million items. They 
include the entire range of documentary form, from sketchbooks 
and account books to lists and unpublished reminiscences, but the 
largest single category by far is correspondence. These letters to 
and from artists and their friends, dealers, collectors, critics, and 
admirers remain, even in an increasingly electronic age, one of the 
basic sources of information on the art and artists of a given period. 

Early nineteenth-century correspondence is relatively rare in 
the archives. One collection received this year, the papers of the 
portrait painter William Edward West, concentrates on the 1840s 
and 1850s, but two earlier items are of particular interest. One is a 
long, detailed account of several days spent on a portrait of a 
talkative Lord Byron in 1822 when West was in Italy. "I found 
him a bad sitter — he talked almost all the time and asked me 
a multitude of questions about America — how I liked Italy — what 
I thought of the Italians — and whether I yet had any love intrigue 
in Florence. . . . He was very fond of talking of the females and 
said there was nothing in life he prized so much as the love of 
beautiful women." The other is an amusing 1825 letter from 
Washington Irving, in which the writer chides West for his belief 
that London is less artificial than Paris. 

Charles Augustus Davis conjures up a historian's nightmare in 
a letter written in 1856. "I am spending 2 or 3 hours every day 
in looking over a mass of letters and sorts of vagrant papers, 
which I have gathered and accumulated for 35 years. . . . My wife 



History and Art I 179 



told me if I did not destroy them she would, so I have gone to 
work, destroying 50 and saving one here and there . . . and I laugh 
and cry and burn and save. I am now about in the midst of the 
great Bank War and as I took a stand in that fight I have hundreds 
of letters of Clay, Biddle, Adams, Binney, Calhoun. . . . But as 
these letters were mostly confidential, though they would make an 
amusing book, they will make a brighter bonfire. I only save such 
as can do no harm to anybody." 

Three letters from James Russell Lowell and five from Henry 
James add to the archives' holdings of literary correspondence. The 
former, written in the 1870s, discuss the plight of the sculptor 
Charles Akers. The latter, typical Jamesian effusions which almost 
amount to a parody of his literary style, offer comments on Amer- 
ica just after his return to England from a visit here in 1911. 

The records of the American Academy in Rome, covering the 
years from 1894 to 1950, are rich in correspondence dealing with 
the school's administration and policies in its early years. One 
letter of April 16, 1914, from the director of the academy to its 
president, strikes a familiar note of reluctant bowing to the 
inevitable . . . the admission of women to the academy. 

Some of the best letters, acquired this year, date from quite 
recent times. One from the reticent black artist Horace Pippin, 
America's answer to Henri Rousseau, is a 1943 message to his 
dealer referring to the painting Domino Players, which he wants 
Dr. Albert Barnes to see. Several letters and a dozen postcards 
from Ad Reinhardt to the painter Ed Corbett, during the 1940s and 
50s, mix a running stream of puns with advice, news of his own 
activities, and comments on the art world. Clyfford Still, another 
friend of Corbett's in the same period, writes at length on New 
York. "Here is where the showdown fight really goes on. It's 
bloody and real. . . . New York offers a slash across the belly. 
You know your friend has a knife and will use it on you." He also 
expresses his attitude toward collectors. "I consider damn few 
people fit to own a truly creative work with either their eyes or 
their money. Today, when I permit the physical possession of a 
picture I make clear to the purchaser that he does not own the 
picture but has it in trust." This is a view Clay Spohn also touched 
on in a long letter to Corbett about Still. 

Ben Shahn's papers include a letter to the 3V2-year-old son of 



180 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



a friend, and a letter to Shahn from Alexander Calder, which 
refers to the as-yet-unbuilt Guggenheim Museum. In yet another 
letter, Shahn is asked by S. J. Perelman to design a book jacket 
for his forthcoming Road to Miltown, or, Under the Spreading 
Atrophy. 

The decade of the 1970s is too recent to be well represented in 
the archives, but the records of the Gertrude Kasle Gallery in 
Detroit do reflect those years. They include several late letters 
from Philip Guston and Robert Motherwell, and an exchange of 
correspondence between Mrs. Kasle and Tom Wolfe on the latter's 
now celebrated article, "The Painted Word," together with an 
eloquent defense of modern art by Grace Hartigan. 

The archives' oral-history program provides a useful supple- 
ment to the written and visual records of art in our own time. 
Katherine Kuh, Leslie Cheek, Jr., Bernarda Shahn, Armand Ham- 
mer, Peter Blume, Robert Beverly Hale, Heinz Warneke, and 
Otto Wittmann were among the ninety artists, critics, dealers, 
collectors, and museum directors whose reminiscences and obser- 
vations were taped this year. Last year's concentrated oral-history 
project on Mark Rothko continued this year with further funding 
from the Mark Rothko Foundation. Another special project, begun 
in fiscal year 1983 and supported by local grants and contributions, 
deals with the art community of the Pacific Northwest over the 
past forty years. 

The volume of research conducted at the archives held steady in 
fiscal year 1983, with 2,950 visits from graduate students, curators, 
teachers, Smithsonian Fellows, and independent researchers. The 
interlibrary loan service handled 520 requests for 1,430 rolls of 
microfilm, a 15 percent increase over the previous year. Copies of 
570 photographs were provided to researchers for lectures and 
publications. 

Earlier research at the archives came to fruition in an unusually 
large number of books, articles, and exhibition catalogues pub- 
lished during 1983. Jose deCreeft, Thomas Sully, H. H. Richardson, 
Leon Dabo, Paul Strand, Joseph Cornell, Karl Knaths, Thomas 
Eakins, Morton Schamberg, David Smith, Reginald Marsh, and 
Alfred Stieglitz were among the many artists given extensive 
treatment with help from the archives. More general subjects 
studied and published were on American artists in Brittany and 

History and Art I 181 



Normandy, urban realism of the 1930s, precisionist painting and 
photography, and, that perennial favorite. New Deal art. In a new 
departure, the David Smith Papers were extensively used in two 
film productions on the artist. 

Without public exhibition space, the Archives of American Art 
has little opportunity to display its treasures. It does, however, 
lend letters, photographs, sketches, and other documents as edu- 
cational enhancements to art exhibitions. Seven museums, two of 
them fellow Smithsonian bureaus, took advantage of that oppor- 
tunity this year. In 1983 the National Portrait Gallery showed 
selected material from the archives' Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney 
Papers in an exhibition on the artist and, on a larger scale, an 
archives exhibition of David Smith Papers was shown at the 
Hirshhorn Museum. The latter, an ambitious project supple- 
menting a major Smith show of sculpture and paintings, was 
accompanied by a separate catalogue. Several small exhibitions 
were also mounted at the archives' own offices in Boston, New 
York, Washington, D.C., Detroit, and San Francisco. 

The quarterly Archives of American Art Journal continued to 
publish articles based on the collections and reports on collecting 
activities at the regional centers. Three earlier archives publications 
received the Wittenborn Award this year for excellence in pro- 
duction and content of art reference books published between 
1977 and 1981. 

William E. Woolfenden, director of the Archives of American 
Art since 1964, retired June 30. Under his leadership the archives 
grew from a small office in Detroit with a staff of four to a thriving 
nationwide institution whose collections are indispensable for 
research in American art history. Following the interim appoint- 
ment of Susan Hamilton, the aaa's deputy director, as acting direc- 
tor, Richard Murray, was appointed director of the aaa in Sep- 
tember. Murray was most recently director of the Birmingham 
Museum of Art. 

Cooper-Hewitt Museum 

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the Smithsonian's National Museum 
of Design, serves as an international center for the study of 



182 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Colonnade Egg, by Carl Peter Faberge, circa 1905, is from 
the Cooper-Hewitt exhibition Faberge: Jeweler to Royalty. 
Another Cooper-Hewitt exhibition was Scandinavian Mod- 
ern: 1880-1980 (below). 




historical and contemporary design. Since its opening in 1976, 
the museum has successfully inaugurated a broad range of activi- 
ties — including changing exhibitions, publications, research, col- 
lection development, conservation, and educational services — 
while developing plans for many future programs. 

EXHIBITIONS 

Several of the museum's 1983 exhibitions were devoted largely 
to international loans and included many objects never before 
exhibited for American audiences. Scandinavian Modern: 1880- 
1980, organized by the Cooper-Hewitt with the aid of a grant from 
the American Scandinavian Foundation, attracted wide attention 
from the public and press. Following its inaugural showing at the 
museum, the exhibition traveled to Minneapolis, Washington, 
D.C., and Copenhagen. 

The focus of spring was Faberge: Jeweler to Royalty, a major 
exhibition drawn from the private collection of Her Majesty Queen 
Elizabeth II and several other British lenders. Faberge rapidly 
became the most popular exhibition in the museum's history, 
drawing capacity crowds of over 100,000 visitors. 

The extensive Cooper-Hewitt collection served as the primary 
source for several 1983 exhibitions, including Lace, Fashion Prints, 
Designed for Theater, Urban Documents: Twentieth-Century 
American Prints, and Carnegie Mansion Embellishments. New 
handbooks of the lace and fashion print collections accompanied 
these exhibitions, adding to an expanding library which will 
eventually document all Cooper-Hewitt collections. 

Architectural subjects figured importantly in the 1983 schedule, 
beginning with American Picture Palaces, a survey of the grand 
movie theaters of the early twentieth century. Photography and 
Architecture: 1839-1939, a loan exhibition from the collections of 
the Canadian Center for Architecture, examined the early history 
of the photographic medium and its influence on architects, his- 
torians, and critics. Concurrently, the museum presented Frank 
Lloyd Wright and the Prairie School, a major Cooper-Hewitt 
project which reviewed the work and influence of Wright in the 
unaccustomed context of his early associates and colleagues. 

Numerous smaller exhibitions proved very popular, and their 
unusual subject matter attracted broad interest in the national 



184 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



press. Visitors were delighted by a display of metalwork designs 
executed by Tiffany Studios and its successor in the museum's 
Decorative Arts Gallery, a remarkable assemblage of ornamented, 
utiHtarian, and exotic Canes and Walking Sticks. Cast-iron toy 
banks were the subject of A Penny Saved, and the use of repeating 
patterns as a design motif was explored in Contemporary Con- 
tinuous Pattern. 

Meanwhile, Cooper-Hewitt collections and exhibitions continued 
to travel around the nation under the auspices of the Smithsonian 
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. Among the exhibitions 
circulated in 1983 were The Shopping Bag: Portable Graphic Art, 
Matchsafes, and Urban Open Spaces. 

As in past years, the museum's exhibition program drew fre- 
quent positive comment from the national and international press. 
The New York Times described the Scandinavian Modern exhibi- 
tion as "the most comprehensive review of the style ever presented 
on this continent," and welcomed Faberge as "a superb show . . . 
it is hard to imagine any other as well-edited or as dramatic." 
Television and radio commentators continued to follow Cooper- 
Hewitt activities with interest, and museum activities received 
broad coverage in dozens of national magazines. 

PUBLICATIONS 
Cooper-Hewitt collections and exhibitions continue as a rich 
resource for museum publications. Scandinavian Modern: 1880- 
1980, released at the close of fiscal year 1982, was distributed 
nationally through Harry N. Abrams, Inc., and drew wide acclaim 
as a landmark survey of Scandinavian design. A similar copublish- 
ing arrangement with George Braziller, Inc., made possible a 
major monograph to accompany the exhibition Frank Lloyd Wright 
and the Prairie School. 

A major catalogue and checklist for Faberge: Jeweler to Royalty 
expanded upon the themes of the popular exhibition; many of the 
loan objects were illustrated in the catalogue, providing a perma- 
nent record of their unprecedented visit to the United States. 

The Smithsonian Illustrated Library of Antiques, prepared by 
the Cooper-Hewitt and distributed nationally by Book-of-the- 
Month Club, was expanded by two new volumes to a total of 
fourteen books. Completed in 1983 were volumes on Boxes and 



History and Art I 185 



Enamels, both of which were well-received by series subscribers. 
The fifteenth volume is in production and plans are being devel- 
oped to extend the series to eighteen titles. Since the establishment 
of the subscription program in 1979, more than 600,000 volumes 
of the Illustrated Library have been sold. 

The museum collections served as the inspiration for a new 
handbook on Fashion Plates, and manuscripts were produced for 
several additional collection catalogues. The popular exhibition 
of "embellished" elevations of the Carnegie Mansion encouraged 
the creation of a new publication. Variations on a Theme; more 
than two hundred imaginative drawings by architects, designers, 
public figures, and friends of the museum are illustrated. Last 
year's urban design publication on CITIES was honored with an 
award of excellence from the American Institute of Graphic 
Artists and is currently being translated into Italian. Work pro- 
gressed rapidly on the next in the museum's series of tabloid 
publications, a major new project on the phenomenon of change. 

PROGRAMS 

The new master's degree program on European decorative arts, 
a joint undertaking of the Cooper-Hewitt and Parsons School of 
Design, completed its first academic year. This program, which is 
the first of its kind in the country, is largely structured around the 
special resources of the Cooper-Hewitt and its collections. The 
inaugural class of twenty-three students enrolled in courses on 
materials, interpretation, and design styles, each taught by special- 
ists from Cooper-Hewitt and its colleague institutions. Sir Francis 
Watson, eminent decorative arts scholar and Smithsonian Regents 
Fellow at Cooper-Hewitt, offered his expertise in several lectures 
and private consultations with students. A new class of students 
began work for the master's degree in September 1983, and the 
first graduation ceremonies are planned for the spring of 1984. 

An active program of lectures, tours, workshops, and special 
events continued to attract students of all ages from throughout 
the New York metropolitan area. Four semesters of subscription 
programs — addressing subjects as varied as architecture, industrial 
and graphic design, the decorative arts, design styles and revivals, 
and historic landmarks — were offered for more than 4,000 people. 
Outreach programs brought Cooper-Hewitt resources to more than 



186 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



6,000 children, senior citizens, community groups, and handicapped 
persons. Interest in the museum's exhibitions and landmark build- 
ing continued to grow; an estimated 8,000 visitors benefited from 
volunteer docent tours, and thousands more received information 
and guidance from a dedicated corps of nearly 100 trained volun- 
teers. 

A year-round internship program provided museum experience 
for undergraduate and graduate students. Fifteen full-time summer 
interns assisted museum staff members, and four students were 
selected as Sidney & Celia Siegel Fellows. 

In spite of economic conditions which reduced the membership 
ranks of many arts institutions, Cooper-Hewitt members remained 
remarkably loyal. Members in all categories maintained the high 
renewal rate of past years, and members' events grew in attendance 
and popularity. The spring season of Faberge activities drew many 
new members to the museum and was the inspiration for a major 
benefit organized with A La Vieille Russie Galleries. 

COLLECTIONS MANAGEMENT 

A year of concentrated effort brought many improvements in the 
conservation and storage of Cooper-Hewitt collections. An October 
dedication ceremony for the Textile Study Center, made possible 
by Thomas M. Evans and the Milliken Foundation, marked the 
completion of new facilities for the textile collection. Conservators 
in the paper and textiles laboratories continued to work on press- 
ing conservation needs, and the museum continued in its role as 
the Conservation Advisory Center for the state of New York, a 
program funded by the New York State Council on the Arts. Work 
was completed on the reorganization of the Henry Dreyfuss Indus- 
trial Design Archive, and a comprehensive guide to the archive was 
developed to aid researchers. 

The central tasks of building and refining the museum's collec- 
tions continued in 1983, and 230 objects — including gifts from 
sixty donors — were accessioned into the permanent collection. 
Private benefactors matched a generous grant from the Smith- 
sonian Regents Special Acquisition Fund to permit the museum 
to acquire a very fine set of drawings by Frank Lloyd Wright and 
his closest associates; a number of these important works, which 
are the first drawings by Wright to be added to the collection, were 



History and Art I 187 



displayed in the fall exhibition Frank Lloyd Wright and the Prairie 
School. Through selective use of its own very modest purchase 
funds, the museum was able to add sixteen objects in fiscal year 
1983. 

The first phase of the physical inventory of the entire collec- 
tion was nearly completed, and the inventory staff began the 
necessary reconciliation of the new computer records with the 
original accession books used since the founding of the collec- 
tion in 1897. 

The museum continued to encourage loans to qualified col- 
leagues, and Cooper-Hewitt objects were borrowed by more than 
twenty institutions, traveling with exhibitions to such places as 
Washington, D.C., Texas, Wyoming, and Minnesota. The active 
pace of Cooper-Hewitt exhibitions brought more than 700 loan 
objects into the museum from more than eighty domestic and 
foreign lenders. 

The crowded conditions and limited gallery space in the Carne- 
gie Mansion remained a primary concern in 1983. Detailed space 
planning continue to occupy the attention of the staff, and the 
museum's architects. Hardy, Holzman, Pfeiffer, developed pre- 
liminary designs to renovate and expand the townhouse which 
adjoins the Carnegie property. Early planning for a development 
campaign to finance these capital projects was begun under the 
guidance of the Cooper-Hewitt Advisory Council and museum and 
Smithsonian staff. Arthur Ross, a member of the Cooper-Hewitt 
Advisory Council and a frequent benefactor of the museum, 
pledged a leadership gift of $500,000 in support of the building 
program. This generous contribution will provide a sound foun- 
dation for exciting progress in the coming year. 



Freer Gallery of Art 

The Freer Gallery of Art (fga) celebrated in 1983 the sixtieth an- 
niversary of the public opening of the museum. To mark that 
event, the gallery organized two special exhibitions. The first, 
Charles Lang Freer: The Man and His Gallery, presented a group 



188 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Professor Emeritus Max Loehr, of Harvard University (center), was awarded 
the Charles Lang Freer Medal in May in recognition of his achievements in 
Chinese art history. Secretary Ripley is shown here at left and at right is 
Thomas Lawton, director of the Freer Gallery. 



of photographs that traced Freer's career as a collector and the 
construction of the Freer Gallery. The second. Studies in Connois- 
seurship 1923-1983, brought together a group of objects acquired 
by Freer before his death in 1919. Each of the objects included in 
this exhibition was chosen because recent scholarship had provided 
new information that enabled specialists to change the original 
attributions. The emphasis upon research and scholarship, as they 
relate to the Freer collection, highlights the initial direction given 
to the museum by Freer in his Deed of Gift. This same theme is 
the focus of the 1983-84 lecture series, reexamining the original 
Freer collection in light of subsequent research. 

On May 2, the precise date of the sixtieth anniversary, the gal- 
lery awarded the Freer Medal to Professor Emeritus Max Loehr, 
of Harvard University, in recognition of his distinguished achieve- 
ments in Chinese art history. Professor Loehr was the seventh 
recipient of the Freer Medal, which was established in 1954 to 
mark the one-hundredth anniversary of Charles Lang Freer's birth. 

The August issue of Apollo magazine was dedicated to Charles 
Lang Freer as a connoisseur. Nine essays included in Apollo dis- 
cuss the salient aspects of the original Freer collection and high- 
light the unusual quality of those pieces Freer presented to the 
nation. 

Another anniversary publication. The Freer Gallery of Art, pro- 
vides visitors with a general introduction to the history of the 
museum and the story of the founder. 

The Adventures of Rama, a book designed for all age groups, 
is illustrated with paintings from a sixteenth-century Italian manu- 
script in the collection. The text, a retelling of the epic story known 
as the Ramayana, was prepared by Professor Milo Cleveland 
Beach, of Williams College and former Smithsonian Regents Fel- 
low. Funds for the publication were provided by the James Smith- 
son Society. 

The Freer's thirtieth annual lecture series included: "The Monk 
Chogen and the Renaissance of Japanese Buddhist Sculpture 
in the Thirteenth Century," by Professor John M. Rosenfield, of 
Harvard University, which was jointly sponsored with the Em- 
bassy of Japan; the Rutherford J. Gettens Memorial Lecture, "The 
Mutable Message of the Medium: Coloration and Discoloration in 
the Japanese Print," delivered by Robert L. Feller, of the Mellon 



190 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Institute; and "A Medieval Muslim Center of Learning in India," 
by Professor Anthony Welch, of the University of Victoria. 

Plans for the 1983-84 lecture series include a memorial lecture 
for John A. Pope, the former director of the Freer Gallery. This 
special lecture, to be presented annually, will be supported from 
the memorial fund established by the museum, and the topics pre- 
sented will relate to aspects of Far Eastern ceramics. The inaugural 
lecturer will be Margaret Medley, curator of the David Founda- 
tion, London. 

The major exhibition in fiscal year 1983 was Chinese Art of the 
Warring States Period: Change and Continuity, 480-222 B.C. On 
view were 151 samples of jade ornaments, lacquerware, bronze 
vessels and fittings, and other metalwork inlaid with gold and 
silver designs. Many of the objects had been redated, reevaluated, 
or could be understood more fully because of new knowledge 
resulting from recent archeological findings in the People's Republic 
of China. An illustrated catalogue revealing this research accom- 
panied the exhibition. 

A number of new exhibitions were presented this year. Chinese 
Flower Paintings included forty examples of scrolls and album 
leaves from the thirteenth through the nineteenth centuries. The 
exhibition included the famous handscroll, "A Breath of Spring," 
an ink representation of a blossoming plum branch. The scroll, 
once a part of the Chinese imperial collection, is the only known 
surviving work of the Taoist monk, Tsou Fu-lei. Dated 1360, it is 
widely acknowledged to be one of the finest Chinese ink paintings 
of plum blossoms. 

The history of Japan's rich traditions of ceramic art was ex- 
plored in an exhibition entitled Japanese Ceramics from Past to 
Present. The earliest piece in the exhibition was a large, hand-built 
earthenware storage jar — the oldest intact example of Japanese 
pottery in the Freer collection, dated from the middle Jomon period 
(3000-2500 B.C.) — and the most recent was a ceramic water basin 
made by a late-nineteenth-century potter who was also a Sumo 
wrestler. In all, fifty examples of Japanese ceramic wares were on 
exhibit, illustrating special characteristics of works made at various 
periods and at many locations in the Japanese archipelago. 

Another show of Japanese ceramics. Summer Whites, reflected 
the sensitivity to seasonal moods. These porcelain wares are by 



History and Art I 191 



custom reserved primarily for summer use, when a glimpse of the 
cool and gleaming white ceramic refreshes the spirit. Following 
that custom, this exhibition presented thirty-three examples show- 
ing the variety of porcelain wares produced at Japan's great porce- 
lain center of Arita from the seventeenth through the nineteenth 
century. Japanese Portraiture offered a selection of eighteen por- 
traits and imaginary portraits of historical figures by Japanese 
painters living from the thirteenth through the nineteenth cen- 
turies. Included were interpretations of historical personalities of 
India, China, and Japan who had a profound impact on the cul- 
tural history of Japan. 

The Story of Rama was mounted to coincide with the gallery's 
publication of a book with the same title. All of the Indian minia- 
tures from the sixteenth-century manuscript in the Freer collection 
that are included in the book, designed for readers of all ages, 
were displayed, together with labels describing the story of Rama's 
struggle against the forces of evil. 

Tours of these exhibitions increased in number under the mu- 
seum's docent program. In addition, the Freer now offers nine free 
leaflets to visitors and to those inquiring by mail to explain aspects 
of oriental art exhibited at the museum. The gallery's general in- 
troductory brochure is now available for the visually impaired. 

Among the well-known visitors to the museum this year were 
Sheykh Hamad bin Isa al-KhaHfa, Heir of Bahrain; the Venerable 
Nechung Rinpoche, of the Wood Valley Retreat Center in Hawaii; 
and Xia Nai, Director of the Institute of Archeology, Chinese 
Academy of Social Sciences, along with a group of twelve other 
specialists from the People's Republic of China concerned with 
archeology. 

Notable donations to the Freer collection this year included a 
pair of Japanese wooden guardian lion-dogs, dating from the 
thirteenth century. The lion-dogs were purchased and presented 
to the gallery by the James Smithson Society. William S. Weedon, 
Charlottesville, Virginia, gave a Chinese eleventh-century B.C. jade 
fish pendant. Another example of Chinese jade, a late Neolithic 
blade, was presented by Mrs. Elizabeth Lorentz, of Armonk, New 
York. 

The Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation and the George and 
Frances Armour Foundation provided funds for the Freer library. 



192 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Among the notable donations to the Freer collection were these Japanese wood 
sculptures of the Kamakura period, 1185-1333. The James Smithson Society 
presented the pair of mythological lion-dogs to the gallery. 



AT&T made a generous grant to support publication of a cata- 
logue for the James McNeill Whistler exhibition scheduled to open 
in May 1984. Donations from the Peggy and Richard Danziger 
Fund, the Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary Griggs Burke Foun- 
dation, and the Clark Endowment Fund enabled the gallery to 
acquire important objects for the collections. A general donations 
fund was established to accommodate smaller monetary gifts. 

During 1983 the Freer Gallery completed its five-year inventory 
of the collections. Every object in the collections was checked 
against the original records, and every object was found to be in 
its assigned position. 

Head photographer Stanley A. Turek died on February 3, 1983. 
He had contributed substantially to the Freer with his expertise 
and friendship for almost nine years (1974-83). His sensitive 
understanding of how Asian art objects should be photographed, 
and his extensive time and effort to achieve the best possible re- 
sults, served as a model to his colleagues throughout the gallery. 



Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden 

As one of the most important museums of contemporary art in 
the country, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden (hmsg) 
maintains an active exhibition schedule and acquisitions program. 
In support of these are related programs of lectures, films, concerts, 
and educational activities involving audiences of all ages. Technical 
and support units include offices of conservation, registration, and 
photography and a reference library. 

Since its opening in October 1974, the museum has developed 
an active schedule of major exhibitions, usually of material bor- 
rowed from other institutions and private collectors. There are also 
smaller exhibitions drawn from the permanent collection. Many 
exhibitions organized by the hmsg are circulated to other museums, 
and there are frequent loans of individual works of art to other 
institutions. 

The first major exhibition of 1983 was a retrospective of 163 
works in several media by David Smith (American, 1906-65), en- 
titled David Smith: Painter, Sculptor, Draftsman, November 4, 



194 / Smithsonian Year 1983 





Above: Abram Lerner, director of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture 
Garden, is shown with Candida and Rebecca Smith, daughters of the late 
artist David Smith, at the preview reception for the exhibition David Smith: 
Painter, Sculptor, Draftsman. Artist Friedel Dzubas (below) greets Mrs. 
Joseph Hirshhorn and Carlton Swift at the opening of another Hirshhorn 
Museum exhibition, Friedel Dzubas, on June 15, 1983. 




1982-January 16, 1983. This was accompanied by From the Life 
of the Artist: A Documentary View of David Smith, an exhibition 
organized by the Archives of American Art, which included letters, 
sketchbooks, and photographs. Both exhibitions were shown at the 
San Antonio Museum of Art, Texas, March 27-June 4, 1983. At 
the time of the Washington showing, the National Gallery of Art 
had a major exhibition of sculpture by Smith. 

"David Smith: A Symposium," was held on November 6, 1982, 
a joint program of the hmsg and the National Gallery of Art, with 
talks by Edward F. Fry, Clement Greenberg, Rosalind Krauss, and 
Karen Wilkin. On November 5, hmsg assistant curator Miranda 
McClintic presented a lecture, "Variety and Continuity in the Art 
of David Smith." 

The next major exhibition was Directions 1983, March 10-May 
15, 1983. This exhibition, the third in the Directions series or- 
ganized by the hmsg to provide a showcase for new art, featured 
forty works by seventeen artists. "An Evening with the Artists," 
March 10, 1983, was an informal discussion, introduced by asso- 
ciate curator Phyllis Rosenzweig, with the following artists whose 
works were included in the exhibition: Ida Applebroog, Kendall 
Buster, Mary Jones, Pierre Picot, and Anita Thacher. 

The Smithsonian Resident Association Program sponsored a 
lecture series on contemporary art called "Three on the Scene," 
with Grace Glueck on April 6, 1983, and Mary Boone and Carter 
RatcHffe on April 13, 1983. 

The exhibition Friedel Dzubas, June 16-August 14, 1983, fea- 
tured forty-five paintings made between 1949 and 1981 by Friedel 
Dzubas (American, b. Germany 1915). A dialogue between Dzubas 
and HMSG chief curator Charles Millard was held on June 16, 1983. 

Purchases by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, 
1974-1983, September 15-November 13, 1983, concluded the 
major exhibitions for the year. More than 150 paintings, sculp- 
tures, and drawings purchased by the museum since its opening 
were on view. The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program spon- 
sored two lectures in conjunction with the exhibition: "An Evening 
with Perry Rathbone: Art, Acquisitions, and Auctions," Septem- 
ber 28, 1983, and "Anniversary Inventory: Frank Getlein Eyes Ten 
Years of Purchases at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Gar- 
den," October 26, 1983. 



196 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Smaller exhibitions, most of them organized by the museum's 
staff and drawn from the permanent collection, included: Genre 
Scenes, August 19-November 7, 1982; Contemporary Paintings 
from Pakistan, November 24-December 26, 1982; The Eight and 
the Independent Tradition in American Art, January 13-March 20, 
1983; Artists and Others: Works on Paper, January 27-June 19, 
1983; and Joseph Stella, May 12-July 17, 1983. 

As the nature of the hmsg's permanent collection has become 
more widely known, requests for loans from the collection have 
increased. For example, the forty-three paintings in The Eight and 
the Independent Tradition in American Art were lent to the Terra 
Museum of American Art, Evanston, Illinois. Loans to foreign 
exhibitions included six paintings to the Neue Gesellschaft fiir 
Bildende Kunst, Berlin, West Germany; five sculptures and two 
drawings by Alexander Calder to the City of Turin, Italy; two 
paintings by Willem de Kooning to the Stedelijk Museum, Amster- 
dam, the Netherlands; and four sculptures to the Tate Gallery, 
London. In addition, exhibitions organized by the hmsg were 
toured by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. 
Acquisitions are vital to any museum, but especially to a mu- 
seum of contemporary art. During 1983, hmsg acquired 155 works 
of art, including nine purchased with appropriated funds. Major 
purchases from appropriated funds included Raymond Duchamp- 
Villon's Rooster (Gallic Cock), 1916, and Jan Muller's Bacchanal 
and Phantom Horse, 1954-55. 

To increase visitor appreciation and understanding of specific 
exhibitions and of modern art in general, the museum provides 
a variety of instructional material, including explanatory wall 
labels and brochures. The latter range from a single page to illus- 
trated mini-catalogues and are distributed free of charge to the 
public. A fifteen-minute slide presentation has been installed in a 
small theater in the third-floor galleries of the museum. The first 
slide program was "Elements of Art: Line"; the second is "Ele- 
ments of Art: Color." Many of the works of art featured in the 
slide presentation are displayed in the adjacent gallery for the 
visitors' viewing. 

The museum also presents a film series, with lunchtime docu- 
mentaries on art and artists, evening films by independent film- 
makers, and Saturday films for young people. Whenever possible. 



History and Art I 197 



the film series reflects the current exhibitions. During Directions 
1983, films were related to the Melodrama section of the exhibi- 
tion. Other events in the auditorium are concerts by the 20th- 
century Consort and lectures by artists, critics, and curators. For 
example, a symposium was held on February 13, 1983, in con- 
junction with The Eight and the Independent Tradition in Ameri- 
can Art, with scholars Marc Pachter and Bernard Perlman. 



Joseph Henry Papers 

Progress continued on the letterpress edition of The Papers of 
Joseph Henry. Finishing touches were applied to the manuscript 
of volume 5, while preliminary editorial work was begun on vol- 
ume 6. The sixth volume is the last concerned with Henry's years 
at Princeton. It will document the establishment of the Smith- 
sonian, the offer of the position of Secretary to Henry, and his 
decision to leave academia for new responsibilities in Washington, 
D.C. 

During most of this year, Nathan Reingold, editor of the Henry 
Papers, has been on sabbatical, conducting manuscript research on 
American science since 1939. Upon his return he presented a paper 
on Vannevar Bush at the National Research Council's conference 
on engineering in American history. He also organized an interna- 
tional symposium on "Problems of Documentation in the History 
of the Sciences" as part of his duties as president of the Com- 
mission on Documentation, International Union of the History and 
Philosophy of Science (Division of History of Science), and gave 
the opening overview address. 

Other staff members were also active professionally. Kathleen 
W. Dorman was a member of the Committee on Publications of 
the Association for Documentary Editing. Marc Rothenberg gave a 
presentation on the professionalization of American astronomy at 
the turn of the century to the Colloquium Series in Science and 
Technology Studies of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Jeffrey 
Stine made two presentations on the theme of engineers and im- 
perialism: one to the Annual Meeting of the Society for the His- 
tory of Technology and the other to the University of Delaware's 



198 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Lunch Seminar. Paul Theerman made a presentation on the social 
image of science in nineteenth-century America to the Joint 
Atlantic Seminar in the History of the Physical Sciences. He also 
discussed national images of science at the Long Island University 
Conference on Science, Technology, and Literature. In addition, he 
was appointed to the Professional Ethics Subcommittee of the 
Society for History in the Federal Government. 

The project continued its sponsorship of the Nineteenth Century 
Seminar. Talks this year ranged from the history of mathematics 
to the history of art; from the military approach to hydraulic engi- 
neering to professional musicians in Washington. 



National Museum of African Art 

The search for permanent administrative leadership for the Na- 
tional Museum of African Art (NMAf a) was successfully completed 
in 1982. January 26, 1983, marked the formal announcement that 
Sylvia H. Williams, curator of the Department of African, Oceanic 
and New World Cultures at the Brooklyn Museum had accepted 
the appointment to head the NMAfA, effective February 1, 1983. 
During the interim. Dr. John E. Reinhardt continued to serve as 
acting director. A second major staff appointment was that of 
Dr. Roy Sieber, Rudy Professor of Fine Arts at the University of 
Indiana, to the position of associate director for collections and 
research, effective June 1, 1983. With its permanent leadership in 
place, the museum embarked on a new and important development 
phase in its history. Self-assessment and long-range planning be- 
gan. This called for a thoughtful examination of the museum's 
primary resources and responsibilities: acquisition, collection man- 
agement and conservation, exhibitions, innovative educational pro- 
grams, and scholarly research. However, reflection and analysis 
were not conducted in isolation; the museum's already active pro- 
gram continued to gain momentum. 

The temporary exhibition schedule was central to the museum's 
mandate: to present and explicate the visual traditions of sub- 
Saharan Africa. Objects of the finest aesthetic quality were gen- 
erously lent by museums and private collectors throughout the 



History and Art I 199 



United States as well as from the nmaFa's collection for the exhi- 
bitions African Emblems of Status (October 27- April 3); From 
the Earth: African Ceramic Art (May 17-October 9); and African 
Art in Color (May 17-October 17). Each thematic exhibition 
focused on a particular aspect of traditional African society and 
the art forms created and used for that purpose. Exhibitions were 
complemented and further clarified by a series of public lectures, 
technical demonstrations, and performances. 

In keeping with its unique role as the only museum in the 
United States devoted solely to the visual arts of sub-Saharan 
Africa, the museum's permanent collection was significantly en- 
riched by the purchase of several magnificent works of art. Funds 
for their acquisition were provided by the Smithsonian's Trust- 
funded Acquisitions Program and the museum's federal appropria- 
tion for works of art. 

First among these objects were two rare Benin cast bronzes, an 
exceptional commemorative head (circa fifteenth-sixteenth cen- 
tury) and a high relief plaque (circa sixteenth-seventeenth century) 
from the celebrated ancient Nigerian kingdom of Benin. Second, 
in an unusual cooperative plan, the NMAfA and the National Mu- 
seum of Natural History/Museum of Man jointly purchased an 
extensive and comprehensive collection of African woven textiles 
formerly owned by Alastair and Venice Lamb of Great Britain. A 
third major acquisition was an important example of Central Afri- 
can wood sculpture, the first of such extraordinary quality from 
this region to enter the museum's holdings. This carving of a 
female figure and child, attributed to the Yombe people of Zaire, 
dates to the late nineteenth century. It is one of six extant carvings 
attributed to one carver, named "The Master of the de Briey 
Maternity," and the only example in the United States. Its rarity, 
exceptional aesthetic quality, and provenance have placed the mu- 
seum's Central African holdings in the forefront of United States 
museums. 

Other significant acquisitions included an early, documented 
nineteenth-century Ghanaian Ashanti textile with stamped motifs 
comparable to early examples in several European collections; a 
rare divination instrument from the Holo people of Zaire; and an 
unusual decorative figurative ceramic vessel from the Lwena people 
of Angola, signed and dated by the artist. Collection development 



200 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Ceramic artist Winnie Owens-Hart constructs a traditional Nigerian vessel at 
a pottery demonstration held last summer in the courtyard of the National 
Museum of African Art. Below is a figurative waterpot from Lwena, Angola, 
one of the works of art acquired by the museum this fiscal year. 




must also rely on the generosity and devotion of private individ- 
uals whose donations enrich the museum's holdings. Especially 
noteworthy among such gifts of objects were those received from 
the Friends of the National Museum of African Art, Robert and 
Nancy Nooter, Gaston de Havenon, Joseph Sinclair, and Mr. and 
Mrs. Marc Sherman. 

The museum's emphasis on the conception and implementation 
of sound educational programs, outreach activities, and research 
continued to be of paramount importance. Many of the prograrrts 
were special series that accompanied exhibition themes. A dis- 
tinguished group of lectures were invited from a number of uni- 
versities — Washington, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio State, Howard, Har- 
vard, Maryland, and Wisconsin — to illuminate aspects of the spe- 
cial exhibitions program. 

Special workshops for elementary and secondary school students 
and outreach programs were direct developments of exhibition 
ideas and permanent collection strengths. The topics included prin- 
ciples of African pottery creation, color design, and textile fabri- 
cation and meaning. A strong docent program enabled the mu- 
seum educational staff to reach a larger audience. In addition to 
these public programs, the musum staff continued to offer academic 
courses at Georgetown University and through the U.S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture Graduate School, as well as train a total of 
twelve interns interested in museum careers. They were placed 
throughout the museum in curatorial, administrative, educational, 
and research departments. 

As a part of its research activities, the museum continued to 
build its extensive photographic archive. The donation of 412 
original color slides and black and white photographs by private 
individuals substantially increased and enriched the visual docu- 
mentation of African art and culture. 

The museum was visited by distinguished guests from Liberia, 
Senegal, Botswana, Niger, and Grenada. In addition, the museum 
was fortunate to have two visiting scholars for extended periods 
through the Office of Fellowships and Grants. They were Dr. John 
Wembah-Rashid, assistant director. National Museums of Tanza- 
nia, who was engaged in research on Tanzanian masking tradi- 
tions, and Frances Connelly, Ph.D. candidate. University of Pitts- 
burgh, who was pursuing her dissertation on the influences of 

202 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



African, Oceanic, and New World Art on eighteenth- and nine- 
teenth-century Western art. 



National Museum of American Art 

As a museum with a national mandate and with unparalleled col- 
lections of American art, the National Museum of American Art 
(nmaa) seeks to expand its audience of students and specialists, 
artists, and the general public. In the past year new emphasis has 
been placed upon fulfilling this ambitious mandate through exhi- 
bitions, programs, and specialized activities directed toward a more 
diverse audience. 

In order to realize these objectives, changes in the administra- 
tive structure and staffing of the museum have been implemented. 
The reorganized nmaa directs it activities through three major 
divisions: Curatorial, with primary responsibility for the collec- 
tions and their development, conservation, and study; Programs, 
which is concerned with the presentation of the collections in edu- 
cational activities, publications and art documentaries, and exhibi- 
tions; and Resources, encompassing the registrar's office, library 
and research support functions, and administrative services. With 
its objectives clarified and with its divisions under the supervision 
of newly designated deputy director Harry Lowe and assistant 
directors Barbara Nosanow (Programs) and Charles Robertson 
(Resources), the nmaa is now more flexible and responsive to the 
needs of its multiple constituencies. 

Further reflection of the changes appears in the reordering of 
the presentation of permanent collections of American art. Now 
numbering in excess of 30,000 objects, the holdings of the nmaa 
represent the achievements of America's painters and sculptors, 
printmakers, photographers, and craftsmen over 250 years of our 
history. This is the first opportunity to survey these vast holdings 
in a comprehensive order. New emphasis will be given to the his- 
torical progression represented by the collections, as well as to 
previously unshown aspects of the holdings, especially in the fields 
of photography and sculpture. The reinstallation campaign repre- 
sents the first major refurbishment of the permanent collection gal- 



History and Art I 203 



leries since the museum's move to the Old Patent Office Building 
in 1968. The project is scheduled to be completed by June 1984. 

In the past year the nmaa and its sister museum, the National 
Portrait Gallery, which shares the building, have cooperated in 
advancing the concept of the "Gallery Place Museums," with new 
attention paid to informational literature, signs, and special pro- 
grams to attract new audiences. The number of visitors has notice- 
ably increased, attributable in part to the January inauguration of 
the neighboring D.C. Convention Center and to the opening of a 
new subway line, which turned the Gallery Place stop into a major 
Metro transfer station. 

Cooperation with other Smithsonian bureaus has led to the 
development of new programs, including plans for the first jointly 
presented nmaa-npg exhibition, of paintings by the nineteenth- 
century naive master Erastus Salisbury Field, to be presented in 
1984. Notable exhibitions were presented in the past year, cover- 
ing the nmaa's customary range of old and new materials, solo 
shows, and thematic exhibitions. Paintings by the nineteenth- 
century expatriate Elizabeth Nourse were featured simultaneously 
with the modern sculptures of Jose de Creeft. The neglected beau- 
ties of the Provincetown printers, important innovators in the 
woodblock color print, were featured in a show organized by the 
museum's Department of Graphic Arts. 

The Renwick Gallery presented the most ambitious pan-Smith- 
sonian exhibition that has ever been undertaken. Celebration: A 
World of Art and Ritual. It occupied every gallery of the Renwick 
for the better part of a year and was cosponsored with the Smith- 
sonian's Office of Folklife Programs. The major exhibition of 
modern Scandinavian design, organized by the Smithsonian's 
Cooper-Hewitt Museum, was shown locally at the Renwick Gal- 
lery. American crafts were also featured at the Renwick, as was 
a special showing. Clay for Walls: Surface Reliefs by American 
Artists, offering new works by ceramic artists who depart from 
traditional concerns for vessels and sculptural forms to explore 
the challenge of wall-mounted designs. 

Aspects of the nmaa's permanent collections were also explored 
in new exhibitions, most notably an installation of approximately 
seventy bronzes and drawings by Paul Manship, drawn from the 
museum's extensive holdings of work by that early twentieth- 



204 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Noted sculptor Chaim Gross (left) and Charles Eldredge, director of the 
National Museum of American Art, pose with Gross's 1973 work entitled 
Happy Children, a gift from the artist and his wife in memory of the late 
Joshua C. Taylor, former director of the museum. 



century master. The nmaa's Barney Studio House presented a 
didactic exhibition of AHce Pike Barney and her world of art, 
theater, and architecture, and expanded its program series to three 
performances of each offering. 

The continuing attention to the permanent collections — to ac- 
quisition, conservation, and presentation — is the bedrock on which 
all other museum activities ultimately rest. During the past year, 
the NMAA has added important examples to its collections in vari- 
ous fields. The "father" of American landscape painting, Thomas 
Cole, was previously represented only by a small, late study; but 
in 1982, a rare lithograph by the artist and a major 1829 alle- 
gorical landscape. The Subsiding of the Waters of the Deluge, were 
acquired for the collection, greatly enriching the museum's repre- 
sentation of this important pioneer. 

Also acquired were important examples by contemporary artists 
such as William T. Wiley, Deborah Remington, and Chaim Gross, 
the last as a gift from the artist and his wife in memory of the 
nmaa's late director, Joshua C. Taylor. An early clay sculpture by 
the California artist Peter Voulkos adds diversity, both in terms of 
geography and medium, to the nmaa's modern art collection. 

An impressive group of more than 1,200 photographs by re- 
cipients of awards from the National Endowment for the Arts 
(nea) was transferred to the museum from the nea, greatly 
strengthening that aspect of the nmaa's graphic arts holdings. 
Included were vintage works by such luminaries as Harry Calla- 
han, Helen Leavitt, Jerry Uelsmann, and Danny Lyons, as well as 
a number of early works by younger artists whose subsequent 
contributions to the medium have been significant. The acquisition 
of the NEA photographs is in the tradition of other transfers of 
artworks from other governmental agencies involved with Ameri- 
can art which have greatly enriched the national collections over 
the decades. 



National Museum of American History 

This year the National Museum of American History made note- 
worthy progress toward two long-term goals: improved public 

206 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



presentation of the collections through exhibition and perfor- 
mances; and better control, care, and accessibility of those collec- 
tions. The progress was aided by additions in staff and programs 
from within the Institution and outside, yet simultaneous innova- 
tions in internal project planning and management have kept the 
growth coherent and focused on the museum's mission of illumi- 
nating American history. 

To reach the first goal — communicating American history more 
effectively — the museum moved ahead with its first major renova- 
tion of exhibition spaces since it opened in 1964. This overall rein- 
stallation is the central objective of the museum in the decade 
ahead. Preparations for major installations scheduled to open in 
1984 and 1985 proceeded apace, among them an exhibition on 
Ufe in this nation immediately after the Revolution, and a second 
exhibition detailing industrial development in the country. Other, 
distant projects took more definitive shape. 

Perhaps the most evident sign of the revitalization of public 
spaces was the Star-Spangled Banner's new presentation in Octo- 
ber. An extensive project to clean and protect the 170-year-old 
flag, undertaken the previous summer, culminated in the installa- 
tion of a curtainlike cover in front of the flag, protecting it from 
dust and light. Hourly in the Flag Hall, the cover lowers and, while 
the flag is revealed, two nineteenth-century versions of the music 
which eventually became our national anthem are played. A brief 
history of the flag and the anthem, narrated by museum director 
Roger G. Kennedy, completes the presentation. The life of this 
central icon from the nation's past has been extended, while its 
significance has become more apparent to the many visitors who 
view it and hear its history each day. Typically, this improved 
presentation of the flag involved conservation and research, as will 
larger-scale projects to come. 

Other signs of the museum's refurbishment included the com- 
pletion in early spring of an arcade of arches across the south end 
of the pendulum area, the backdrop for what will soon be a Vic- 
torian Palm Court, where visitors can relax in a quiet setting. The 
arches incorporate a section of the 1850 cast-iron facade of Brock's 
store in Philadelphia, believed to be the earliest such facade sur- 
viving. The adjacent Ice Cream Parlour underwent the early stages 
of a renewal to perfect its period style. A permanent installation 



History and Art I 207 



on atomic clocks also opened during the spring. This installation, 
organized by Paul Forman of the Division of Electricity and Mod- 
ern Physics, is the first in this country to give an in-depth exam- 
ination of the discoveries and developments which changed the 
international time standard from the rotation of the Earth to the 
vibrations of atoms in a vacuum. Finally, the museum put on 
permanent display another recently preserved nineteenth-century 
United States flag — the one that, raised over the state capitol in 
Nashville, Tennessee, during the Civil War, gave the name "Old 
Glory" to the American flag. 

A paramount achievement in the area of the second major goal 
— collections management — came late in the fiscal year, with the 
completion of the first phase of the congressionally mandated shelf 
inventory of the collections. Over the last four years, the staff re- 
corded descriptive information and locations of all artifacts in the 
museum's custody — in the Mall building, the Arts and Industries 
building, and at Silver Hill — and proceeded to computerize the 
data by means of a computer system installed early this fiscal year. 
Statistics help illustrate this year's accomplishment: On October 1, 

1982, the tally of surveyed objects stood at 12,746,179. By June 1, 

1983, the survey total registered 15,554,787. Over the eight 
months, the staff surveyed nearly 3,000,000 objects and edited and 
computerized a huge volume of records, some of which preceded 
the fiscal year. By the end of the summer, further refinement of the 
count of previously "batched" objects brought the total to approxi- 
mately 16,070,000. 

The numbers tell only part of the story. The holdings of the mu- 
seum cover the range of social, scientific, cultural, and techno- 
logical history in America. Those artifacts acquired by the Institu- 
tion before 1964, when the museum opened, came from various 
places and with various cataloguing. To systematize an inventory 
of such collections from more than twenty-one curatorial units, 
through subcollections within each one, and to computerize the 
information with an eye toward future collections management, 
research, and exhibitions, required constant planning and atten- 
tion across curatorial as well as administrative staffs. Yet because 
of the enormous scale within the limited time, and the difficulty 
of reaching and describing objects in asbestos-contaminated build- 
ings at Silver Hill, much work remains to make full use of the 



208 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




In this view of the inventory in progress at the National Museum of Ameri- 
can History, Debra Hashim (left), a technician with the Inventory Survey 
Office, records information about an original Teddy Bear, while Carolyn 
Flanagan, museum technician. Division of Political History, secures the bear's 
tag. (Photograph by Jeff Ploskonka) 



inventory. Initially, it is a useful control tool — tracking n\ovement 
of objects to and from exhibitions, loans, conservation, and study; 
eventually, the databases will strengthen all the uses of the collec- 
tions. The museum plans further breakdown and cataloguing of 
"batched" objects, and the addition of data from registrar's and 
curatorial files. This consolidated body of information will provide 
better opportunities for study, for developing exhibitions, and for 
responding to public inquiries about the collections. 

The appointment of John A. Fleckner to the new position of 
archivist signaled the museum's creation of an Archives Center to 
house its vast collections of documents, photographs, and other 
works on paper. Fleckner came to the museum from the State His- 
torical Society of Wisconsin, where he had managed large and 
complex collections of state political papers, helped establish the 
Wisconsin Conservation Service Center for preserving photographs 
and other works on paper, and coordinated a statewide network to 
make historical records and manuscripts more fully accessible. 
During the spring and summer, Fleckner, his staff, and museum 
conservators launched a major project to conserve two massive 
archival collections: the Warshaw Collection of business cards and 
other forms of U.S. advertising, and a collection of approximately 
400,000 proof sheets from the national advertising firm of N. W. 
Ayer & Sons, Inc., dating from 1875 to 1950. The Archives Center 
staff also surveyed the 28,000 glass photographic plates of the 
Underwood Collection, and received several major donations of 
historical advertising items and business records. 

The museum continued efforts to improve the care of three- 
dimensional holdings in the Mall building and at Silver Hill. It 
renovated its Silver Hill facilities, and, in the summer, moved some 
conservation staff to a laboratory in the recently constructed Mu- 
seum Support Center (msc). Use of the msc storage spaces allotted 
to the museum provides a long-awaited solution to persistent prob- 
lems of overcrowding and inaccessibility of collections, allowing 
expanded in-house treatment of objects and rearrangement of 
cramped storage spaces in the collection-reference areas. 

Two anniversaries gave ample opportunity for exhibitions de- 
lineating significant American achievements. Building Brooklyn 
Bridge: The Design and Construction, 1867-1883 opened on May 4 
and marked the centennial of the completion of that marvel of 



210 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



civil engineering. The exhibition, organized by Robert M. Vogel, 
curator of Mechanical and Civil Engineering, presented more than 
300 drawings, photographs, other graphic materials, and objects 
which revealed the complexity of the enterprise as well as the 
tremendous imaginative and physical effort it required. The exhi- 
bition's run concluded on September 13 with the first of the 
1983-84 Frank Nelson Doubleday lectures, given by David Mc- 
Cullough, author of The Great Bridge. In September the show 
traveled through the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition 
Service to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute for a second showing. 

March on Washington, marking the twentieth anniversary of the 
1963 march, presented memorabilia, a slide program, taped ex- 
cerpts of speeches, and a photographic essay documenting the civil 
rights demonstration from start to finish. In conjunction with the 
exhibition, the museum presented a seminar on the historical back- 
ground of the 1963 march, and a concert by the original Student 
Non- Violent Coordinating Committee Freedom Singers. 

The collections of medical history, military history, and enter- 
tainment were greatly augmented by a major donation from 20th 
Century-Fox Film Corporation of artifacts from the award-winning 
television series "M*A*S*H." The series went to great lengths to 
be faithful to U.S. military life in the Korean War era. Many of the 
2,000 items are military surplus from the period of the Korean 
War or World War II, and the sets, designed after photographs 
of their actual counterparts from the 8055th mash in Korea, sug- 
gest the degree of authenticity of the materials. The two sets used 
in the series — the Swamp and the O.K., which formed the bulk of 
the donation — are valued because they represent the living envi- 
ronment of American military officers and the state of military 
medicine during the Korean War. To present the donation to the 
public, the museum organized an exhibition, M*A*5*H: Binding 
Up the Wounds. Photographs from actual Mobile Army Surgical 
Hospitals in Korea and Vietnam were compared with stills from 
the television series, and costumes, props, equipment, and other 
artifacts documented the show's importance to military, medical, 
and entertainment history. 

Inspired by a major recent acquisition of a collection of wood 
type from Morgan Press in Dobbs Ferry, New York, the exhibition 
The Fat and the Lean, which opened on June 17, shows how a 



History and Art I 211 




The operating room from "M*A*S*H/' the award-winning television series, 
was recreated with the swamp, objects, costumes, and photographs in the 
exhibition M*y4*S*H; Binding Up the Wounds, which opened July 30 at the 
National Museum of American History. (Photograph by Dane Penland) 



technological change, in this case the substitution of wooden type 
for the traditional metal alloy, led to a revolution in printing styles 
which affected the appearance of almost all facets of American life 
from the early nineteenth century to the present. Organized by 
Elizabeth M. Harris, curator of Graphic Arts, the exhibition will 
remain on view for approximately one year. 

Seventy-nine rare books and maps, primarily by Italian writers 
and cartographers from the late-fifteenth to the early-nineteenth 
centuries, formed The Italians and the Creation of America, which 
opened on October 12 and ran for nearly ten months. These ex- 
traordinary examples from the collections of the John Carter 
Brown Library, Brown University, documented the Old World's 
discoveries of the New. The Workers' World, developed by the 
Hagley Museum at Greenville, Wilmington, Delaware, examined 
the effect of increasing industrialization on the lives of nineteenth- 
century workers. With approximately 100 photo-panels and arti- 
facts, the exhibition suggested that many workers in nineteenth- 
century America faced hazardous and oppressive working condi- 
tions even as they achieved a standard of living higher than any 
they had experienced elsewhere. The Trees of Christmas, from the 
Office of Horticulture, offered twelve holiday trees decorated ac- 
cording to such special themes as American Victoriana and hand- 
painted porcelain. In June, Our Nation's Heritage, coproduced with 
the Smithsonian Folklife Program, featured quilts, pottery, musical 
instruments, and other objects made by traditional craftspersons of 
the United States, selected by the National Endowment for the 
Arts to receive National Heritage Fellowships in 1983. 

Numerous small exhibits were mounted, among them Fighting 
for Freedom, presenting correspondence and memorabilia of black 
soldiers who fought in the Union Army during the Civil War; 
William Short: The First United States Diplomat, displaying docu- 
ments and artifacts of the first commissioned diplomat for the 
United States; and Fighting the White Plague: 75 Years of Christ- 
mas Seals, relating the history of the Christmas Seal Campaign. 

In the spring, several programs and staff members of the Institu- 
tion's Division of Performing Arts were welcomed to the museum's 
Office of Public and Academic Programs. These colleagues and 
their programs — among them the Program in Black American Cul- 
ture — offer many strengths sought by the museum for its educa- 



History and Art I 1\2> 



tion and research capabilities. The museum also added an editor 
to its staff to facilitate the preparation of exhibition scripts and 
publication manuscripts. The curatorial staff was strengthened by 
the appointments of several very talented scholars: Edward C. 
Ezell to the Division of Military History, David F. Noble to the 
Division of Mechanisms, Barbara Clark Smith to the Division of 
Domestic Life, Michael R. Beschloss to the Division of Political 
History and the Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research, 
Helena C. Wright to the Division of Graphic Arts, and Keith A. 
Melder to the Division of Political History. 

Music at the museum during the year assumed even greater 
importance than it had in the past. In addition to the regularly 
scheduled free informal concerts and introductory demonstrations 
of instruments from the collections, two new concert series were 
introduced — one featuring the newly formed Smithson String 
Quartet, the other devoted to extraordinary instruments from the 
museum's collections. Led by virtuoso Dutch violinist Jaap Schroe- 
der, the Smithson String Quartet offered formal lectures and con- 
certs in October, January, March, and June. The second series, 
entitled Treasures from the National Collections, brought together 
music and instruments of the same period in programs celebrating 
historic composers and performers. Concerts in this series were 
offered in February, March, April, and May. Both series were 
organized by the museum's Division of Musical Instruments and 
the Friends of Music at the Smithsonian in cooperation with the 
Division of Performing Arts. 

The 1982-83 Frank Nelson Doubleday Lecture Series had as its 
theme "American Arts and Letters." The series included presenta- 
tions by Eliot Wigginton, the inspired teacher from Rabun Gap, 
Georgia, whose work with students had resulted in the Foxfire 
series of books; Studs Terkel, whose conversations with and ob- 
servations of many Americans have led to many insightful works; 
and noted authors Eudora Welty, C. Vann Woodward, and Walker 
Percy, who shared their thoughts about Nathaniel Hawthorne, 
Francis Parkman, and Herman Melville. Other participants in the 
series were Fred Starr and the Louisiana Repertory Jazz Ensemble, 
and Arthur Mitchell and the Dance Theatre of Harlem. 

In addition to catalogues, brochures, and posters produced in 
conjunction with various exhibitions, the Publications Program 



214 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Arthur Mitchell (left) and the company of the Dance Theatre of Harlem per- 
formed at the National Museum of American History on April 6, 1983. This 
lecture-performance was the fourth of the 1982-83 Frank Nelson Doubleday 
lecture series. (Photograph by Dane Penland) 



published up-to-date brochures describing the museum for visitors 
before and during their visits. It also prepared for publication 
three manuscripts for the Smithsonian Studies in History and 
Technology. Also in preparation are several booklets on popular 
collections, among them quilts, locomotives, automobiles, American 
clocks, and puppets. In addition, the museum continued to provide 
editorial guidance, as well as regular scholarly contributions, to 
Technology and Culture, the quarterly of the Society for the 
History of Technology. 

Research at the museum culminated in several other publications, 
among them American Locomotive Builders: A Short Hisiory, a 
comprehensive business history of United States firms that built 
locomotives from 1830 to 1960. The Afro-American Communities 
Project, operating from the museum, continued its study of the 
development of Afro-American communities in ten northern cities 
before the Civil War. 

Additions to the museum's collections during the fiscal year 
included the purchase of an enameled tea kettle, made for adver- 
tising purposes in the 1870s, a rare marked example of an item 
commonly used in American households in the late-nineteenth 
and early-twentieth centuries; a white cotton hand-knitted petti- 
coat dated 1722, a rare masterpiece of the knitter's art as well as 
an important costume artifact; and ninety Perkins Electric sketches 
and watercolors, circa 1885, relating to the work of the black 
electrical draftsman and inventor Lewis Howard Latimer (1848- 
1928). Also significant were the acquisitions of "The Autoperi- 
patetikos," circa 1862, an early example of an American automaton 
complete with original clothing, packaging, and directions, and 
the first American automaton the museum has been able to acquire; 
a portable electrostatic globe machine, circa 1760, one of only two 
of this construction known to exist, used in early experiments 
with frictional electricity; and an American Eagle sewing machine^ 
1855, the first known example of this type. 

Significant gifts included an electric kiln owned and used by 
Gertrude and Otto Natzler, American studio potters who brought 
the kiln with them in 1938 from Austria to America, where it 
played an influential role in American ceramics; sunglasses and 
glasses case used by Eleanor Roosevelt and a pince-nez used by 
Franklin D. Roosevelt, both association pieces of historical impor- 



216 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



tance; the jet-propelled Budweiser rocket, the first land vehicle to 
exceed the speed of sound; an 1878-79 bandstand in excellent 
condition from Jacksonville, Illinois, in use for weekly concerts 
up until World War I, which when installed on the west grounds 
of the museum will be used once again for this purpose; the 
medical kit used at the autopsy on the body of Abraham Lincoln; 
a Viennese Vogl concert grand piano, circa 1815, a rare and beau- 
tiful instrument in original condition which fills a gap in the 
museum's collections of European instruments. In addition, the 
museum received more than 100,000 stamps, archival documents, 
and objects representing the complete history of the Panama 
Canal Zone Postal Service, including a pane of 500 misprinted 
four-cent Thatcher Ferry Bridge stamps of 1962. 

Even while undergoing substantial reorganization, the Division 
of Performing Arts continued to offer many substantive programs. 
Among the highlights were a conference on contemporary issues 
in studies of Black American Culture; a weekend tribute to the 
work of the Reverend William Herbert Brewster, a pioneer com- 
poser of black American gospel music; a weekend tribute to the 
blues, featuring B. B. King, Bobby Blue Bland and Memphis Slim; 
a country music performance by veteran guitarist Chet Atkins 
and legendary country humorist Jethro Burns; a program by 
Edward Villella and his dancers on the art of George Balanchine; 
and a demonstration of the art of jazz improvisation by Timothy 
Slyde and Steve Condos. 



National Portrait Gallery 

The National Portrait Gallery (npg) continued to seek major works 
to enhance its collections, and several portraits of exceptional 
interest were acquired in fiscal 1983. Unquestionably the most 
significant work of sculpture to be acquired in many years was 
the plaster self-portrait bust of the early-nineteenth-century sculp- 
tor John Frazee. Another major purchase was the painting by 
Christian Schussele of Washington Irving and his literary friends 
at Sunnyside; this composite portrait of the most prominent authors 
of the day in an imaginary gathering at Irving's home was created 



History and Art I 217 





Above: This is a view of the Revolu- 
tionary War section from the Na- 
tional Portrait Gallery's exhibition 
Charles Willson Peale and His 
World. 



The early -nineteenth -century self- 
portrait in plaster of John Frazee, the 
first native-born professional Ameri- 
can sculptor, was one of the Por- 
trait Gallery's most significant ac- 
quisitions in years. 



as a memorial to Irving, and was shown at the gallery in a small 
exhibition in commemoration of the bicentennial of his birth. 

Among the other portraits purchased for the collections during 
the year were paintings of a number of American artists, including 
Emil Carlsen, Stuart Davis, Louis Eilshemius, and Daniel Hunt- 
ington, as well as portraits of writers Booth Tarkington and Archi- 
bald MacLeish, actor David Warfield, and musicians Pablo Casals, 
Duke Ellington, Woody Guthrie, and Stan Mingus (the last four 
in woodcuts by Antonio Frasconi). Reuben Nakian's bust of Harry 
Hopkins was also acquired. 

A major purchase, using private funds from the Smithson Society 
and other donors, is a remarkable 24-by-20-inch glass-plate nega- 
tive of Abraham Lincoln by the photographer Alexander Gardner. 
Gifts received during the year included a superb portrait, attributed 
to Jouett, of Lafayette, from the John Hay Whitney Trust; Car- 
montelle's watercolor portrait of Benjamin Franklin (bequest of 
Mrs. Herbert Hoover); Augustus Saint-Gaudens's portrait of Ken- 
yon Cox (from the estate of AUyn Cox); Jo Davidson busts of 
Henry and Clare Boothe Luce; a set of six lithographs by Eliphalet 
Brown of the Perry expedition to Japan; sixty-four portrait photo- 
graphs by Philippe Halsman; a fine group of caricatures by the 
late Aline Fruhauf; and many others. 

This was a year of exceptional exhibitions at the National Por- 
trait Gallery. A major showing of the work of Charles Willson 
Peale, painter, naturalist, patriot, and organizer of the first portrait 
gallery in America, opened in October 1982 — a joint venture of 
the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Amon Carter Museum, and 
the NPG. In February 1983, the showing of Hollywood Glamour 
Photographers — 1921-1941 attracted record audiences, and the 
first major exhibition of the work of Thomas Sully since 1922 
was an event of scholarly significance as well as great attractive- 
ness. Besides the small exhibition in honor of Washington Irving, 
the gallery presented a show of the first year of the presidency of 
Franklin Delano Roosevelt (a continuation of the centennial cele- 
bration started in 1982), and a handsome exhibition marking the 
signing of the Treaty of Paris, an exhibit of prints — some more 
imaginary than real — of the heroes and events of the Civil War, 
and a showing of the drawings and prints of James Barton Long- 
acre (publisher of The National Portrait Gallery of Prominent 



History and Art I 219 



Americans and engraver to the Philadelphia Mint responsible for 
the design of the Indian Head penny and the Liberty dollar). 

Most of the exhibitions mentioned were accompanied by a pub- 
lication of substance. The Peale book (published by Harry N. 
Abrams, Inc., with a grant from the Barra Foundation) was widely 
and favorably reviewed. A new edition of the Illustrated 'Checklist 
of the Permanent Collection of the National Portrait Gallery was 
issued during the year, and a new quarterly calendar of events was 
initiated to make the gallery's programs better known to the public. 

In the past year, the npg Education Department has broadened 
its scope and reach beyond its traditional — and still honored — 
commitment to Washington metropolitan area schools to offer 
an impressive array of services to adults and families, disabled 
persons and senior citizens, and adults and adolescents in institu- 
tional settings. These services have included both an expansion 
of existing programs and the introduction of a spectrum of new 
ones: for example, the "Portraits in Motion" series has brought 
more than 6,500 people into the museum for events illuminating 
significant American lives, such as Walt Whitman, William Faulk- 
ner, Charles Willson Peale, and many others; more than 1,000 
people from all over the country participated in the presentation, 
in a single weekend, of Robert Manson Myers's four-play cycle 
on the antebellum South, The Children of Pride. Perhaps evert 
more notable have been the npg's adult outreach education pro- 
grams, presented to almost 8,000 people, most of them senior citi- 
zens with little other contact with Smithsonian or other cultural 
resources. The response to these programs, particularly the dy- 
namic and nostalgic "FDR: A Memory" and "Only Yesterday," 
has been an outpouring of gratitude from community organiza- 
tions unlike anything we have ever witnessed. The "Lunchtime 
Lecture" series of special subject gallery talks has attracted a 
growing audience into the museum as well, as did "Double Bill- 
ings," a film series in conjunction with the exhibition Hollywood 
Glamour Photographers — 1921-1941, enhancing public aware- 
ness of the possibilities and varieties of portraiture. Altogether, 
in fiscal year 83, more than 40,000 individuals will have been 
enriched by the npg Education Department in a host of different 
and rewarding ways. 

The gallery's "self portrait" evenings resumed this year, with 



220 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Clare Boothe Luce, the noted playwright, politician, and diplomat, was inter- 
viewed by Marc Pachter, assistant director for History and Public Programs, 
National Portrait Gallery, in one of the Living Self-Portrait presentations. 



two distinguished speakers. Theatrical director, producer, and 
writer George Abbott, still active in his ninety-fifth year, opened 
the series with his account of a career of exceptional diversity and 
quality. Clare Boothe Luce spoke eloquently about her life in 
politics, diplomacy, and literature. Both evenings were recast from 
the earlier lecture format into more informal interviews with his- 
torian Marc Pachter, and were videotaped so they could be enjoyed 
by a larger audience and possibly made available in edited form 
for public television broadcast. 

Television and the motion picture as portrait media — extending 
the traditional notion of the portrait as a painting or a work of 
sculpture — is a subject of considerable interest to the npg staff. 
During the past year one of the gallery's major exhibitions — 
Champions of American Sport — was the basis for a television 
program by Home Box Office. The program was previewed for 
the press and selected guests in both New York and at the gallery, 
and appeared to work most successfully as a broadcast. As an 
adjunct to the installation of the Gilbert Stuart "Edgehill" portrait 
of Thomas Jefferson, the museum was able to show Marc Pachter's 
television interview with Jefferson biographer Dumas Malone. This 
was made possible only through a special act of Congress, since 
the program had originally been produced by the United States 
Information Agency for overseas showing; now it will be available 
for domestic use. 

Early in the year, the gallery's assistant director, Harold Pfister, 
accepted an appointment as assistant director of the Cooper-Hewitt 
Museum, the Smithsonian's New York bureau. This coincided with 
a reorganization of the administrative structure of the National 
Portrait Gallery. Two assistant director positions were created: 
the one vacated by Pfister to be in charge of the gallery's collec- 
tions, the other (filled by Marc Pachter) in charge of history and 
public programs. Barbara Hart was promoted to executive officer, 
in charge of personnel, fiscal, and buildings management matters. 

Office of American Studies 

The Office of American Studies (oamers) continued its program 
in graduate education throughout the year. The fall semester sem- 



222 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



inar in "Material Aspects of American Civilization," given in the 
fall of 1982, had as its theme "Material Aspects of Birth, Marriage, 
and Death," a repeat of the theme of the course in 1981, and was 
taught by the director of this office and Professor Bernard Mergen 
of the George Washington University. 

Other seminars during the academic year 1982-83 included 
"The Decorative Arts in America," taught by Barbara G. Carson; 
and "Looking Forward: Turn of the Century Art and Architec- 
ture," taught by Cynthia R. Field. Individual graduate students 
continued to pursue specialized research under the supervision of 
the director of the Office of American Studies. 

The director of the office continued in his capacity as chairman 
of the Folklife Advisory Council. 



History and Art I 223 




A rare Chinese export ("hong") punch bowl is shown above after disassem- 
bly, removal of old discolored and inaccurate restorations, and cleaning by 
the Conservation Analytical Laboratory. Below: the valuable bowl after 400 
hours of expert conservation treatment. 




Smithsonian Year . ip8} 



MUSEUM PROGRAMS 



PAUL N. PERROT, 
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MUSEUM PROGRAMS 



Conservation Analytical Laboratory 

At the end of September, the Museum Support Center became 
the new quarters of the Conservation Analytical Laboratory (cal). 

When it was decided early in the year that all three depart- 
ments — Conservation Treatment, Conservation Science, and Ar- 
chaeometry — would move into the Museum Support Center, the 
CAL staff began energetically to prepare for the move. This has 
entailed review and redefinition of the cal laboratory layouts for 
the center, and preparations for installing work benches, analytical 
equipment, and computer hardware. Planning for the graduate- 
level Smithsonian Conservation Training Program, for which the 
director of cal will have responsibility, has been expedited. 

Senior cal conservators have become increasingly involved in 
teaching their specialized skills to interns and conservators work- 
ing in Smithsonian conservation laboratories. Currently, the senior 
conservation staff is collaborating with conservators from Smith- 
sonian and other local conservation laboratories in planning short- 
term refresher courses, preliminary to the advent of the Training 
Program. Hiring was started mid-year to amplify cal conservation 
teaching and treatment expertise. In view of the projected increases 
in staff and the training commitment, attention was also given to 
evaluation of current documentation and information systems. 

Meanwhile, cal acted on 209 requests for conservation treat- 
ment and conservation science investigations from the Institution's 



225 



bureaus. Most noteworthy of the objects treated in the Department 
of Conservation Treatment by conservators Kory Berrett and Nikki 
Horton were the corroded, fragile lantern, with its red glass intact, 
raised from the sunken Monitor, owned by North Carolina and 
scheduled for a traveling exhibition; a cast-iron cannon from the 
Revolutionary War vessel Defence, belonging to the Navy Me- 
morial Museum; a nineteenth-century gilt necklace made of iri- 
descent green beetles; a rare Chinese export ("hong") punch bowl, 
requiring over 400 hours of work; and President Lincoln's silk top 
hat (long thought to be beaver). 

In the case of these and other projects, proper evaluation of a 
course of treatment would have been impossible without close col- 
laboration with cal's Department of Conservation Science. The 
projected upgrading of scientific instrumentation in the new quar- 
ters will enhance such collaboration in two areas of ongoing con- 
servation research having to do with preservation of leather (Mary 
Garbin) and paper artifacts (Timothy Vitale). These are studies 
of the composition of leather and its deterioration, and the devel- 
opment of appropriate preservation dressings; and the deteriora- 
tion mechanisms of paper artifacts and their response to the com- 
monly employed treatment method of water washing. 

General preservation activities, such as fumigation of infested 
objects, and environmental monitoring in various museums and 
bureaus continued. Cal accommodated the fumigation needs of 
five Smithsonian museums. With requested placement of seventy- 
four hygrothermographs, cal monitors the environmental condi- 
tions for collections in ten buildings, including Cooper-Hewitt, in 
New York. 

To a considerable extent, the damage that occurs to works of art 
can be minimized by museum staffs if they are thoroughly con- 
versant with environmental requirements and understand the vari- 
ous processes that result in the degradation of objects. To provide 
for a better-informed constituency and to supplement guidelines 
and personal consultations, cal continues to offer a series of 
eighty videotaped orientation lectures each fall and winter for all 
interested Smithsonian staff; eight persons received certificates of 
completion during fiscal year 1983. Cal also answered approxi- 
mately 800 requests for conservation information from the public. 
The conservation staff continues to lecture to international and 



226 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



national meetings, and to specialized audiences through workshops 
administered by the Office of Museum Programs. Some of these 
have resulted in papers for journal publication. Cal's information 
group has continued to implement and maintain current its file of 
more than 9,000 reprints of relevant documents from sources 
ranging from Instrumentation and Methods in Physics Research to 
the Bulletin of the Australian Institute for Conservation of Cul- 
tural Material. 

Two extensively deteriorated objects of cellulose nitrate — one 
from New York and one from abroad^ — were thoroughly docu- 
mented. Investigation continued of rapid corrosion of lead sheeting 
inside the roofs of museum buildings. Two examples of organic 
acids inducing corrosion of copper alloys were studied: candle- 
sticks affected by wax and waxed copper plates with incompletely 
removed printers' ink. 

Environmental monitoring of the roof of the Arts and Industries 
Building continues to provide data that reinforce the analysis of 
the roof problems. The monitoring equipment will soon be moved 
to the Air and Space building for a look at a different problem 
involving micrometeorological conditions. Other cal work in the 
environmental field included the analysis of conditions that had 
resulted in the localized yellowing of books on display, a study of 
acidic fumes generated by one section of a celluloid sculpture 
which had attacked other sections, and the design and construction 
of a specially cooled and climate-controlled case for George Wash- 
ington's Commission. The effect of the outside environment on 
lacquer coatings, and the internal environment of a daguerrotype 
case were also examined. 

A literature review was completed on the archival storage of 
documents and photographs on paper. Commercial products that 
affect the storage of objects were also evaluated. These include 
walls for exhibit cases and fabrics for the backing and mounting 
of textiles. The Museum Support Center itself was the focus of 
scientific studies, including evaluation of the design and materials 
for the storage areas and advice on the logistics of collection 
transport. 

Publications and lectures by the conservation scientists included 
such topics as pollution generated within museums, the replication 
of fragile embossed paper objects, the physics of textiles impreg- 



Museum Programs I 227 



nated with hygroscopic salts, the chemical removal of silicones, 
and the relative dating of archeological bone by an analysis of the 
organic components. In addition, cal's work has been included in 
lectures by others concerning the restoration of a harpsichord, the 
corrosion of a candlestick caused by residual wax, and the cleaning 
of the Star-Spangled Banner. Work has also begun on a review of 
naturally occurring adhesives and consolidants. 

Future work will include continuing projects and studies already 
underway, as well as responding to new requests. Environmental 
studies will continue to play a large role, since an understanding 
of the effects of temperature, humidity, and pollutants contributes 
to the preservation of entire collections of objects. 

Finally, the move to the Support Center will provide new and 
less restricting facilities; plans are being made to take advantage 
of the increased room. The proposed addition of a gas chromato- 
graph-mass spectrometer would immensely expand cal's capabili- 
ties in the area of analysis of complex organic materials — and open 
new fields of research. Precise characterization of organic archeo- 
logical materials would provide much more information for estab- 
lishing material sources, methods of material processing, and the 
use and provenance of artifacts. It is planned to collect a library 
of "fingerprints" of different materials; complete, precise analysis 
of conservation materials would reduce reliance on empirical test- 
ing. If these plans come to fruition, greater collaboration with 
other Smithsonian departments is also possible. Suggested research 
topics include the chemical taxonomy of plants and the analysis of 
native dyes. 

The Department of Archaeometry has begun to organize the 
Smithsonian's Archaeometric Research Collections and Records 
(sarcar). This will begin as a data bank of chemical analyses of 
archeological samples and will eventually be expanded to include 
petrographic and metallographic data as well. Sarcar will also 
include a collection of archaeometric samples that relate to 
this data bank and will be available for future study. These sam- 
ples will come to the Smithsonian from individuals who have spent 
their lifetimes studying museum collections by sampling them and 
studying these samples in the laboratory. It would be unfortunate 
indeed if these were not available for future scholars. Sarcar 
is intended as a depository for these valuable data and samples. 



228 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



The proceedings of two of the seminars organized jointly with 
the National Measurement Laboratory of the National Bureau of 
Standards have been published by the Smithsonian Institution 
Press. These are Early Pyrotechnology, edited by Theodore A. and 
Steven F. Wertime, and Archaeological Ceramics, edited by Jacque- 
lin Olin and Alan Franklin. Archaeological Ceramics has been re- 
printed and is available for purchase from the Press. 

Cal thermoluminescence (tl) equipment, used for the dating of 
inorganic materials, has been loaned to the Department of Physics 
of the University of Maryland for two years. William Hornyak, a 
professor in that department, has added submicrosecond electronic 
circuitry and a multichannel analyzer and is seeking support for a 
visiting professor and a research assistant to begin the dating of 
Kalahari sediments. The value of tl for dating ceramics is recog- 
nized in a number of archaeometric laboratories, and supports the 
eventual return of the tl equipment to cal. 

The postdoctoral fellows in Materials Analysis appointed this 
year are both anthropologists. Rita Wright will receive her degree 
from Harvard University and Emlen Myers will receive his from 
the State University of New York at Binghamton. Albert Jornet's 
postdoctoral fellowship has been extended for an additional nine 
months to enable him to continue his chemical and mineralogical 
studies of Spanish majolica. 

Drs. Yu-tarng Cheng and M. James Blackman, research physicist 
and research chemist, are continuing to use the facilities of the 
National Bureau of Standards for neutron-induced autoradiography 
of paintings and neutron activation analysis of ceramics, obsidian, 
chert, soapstone, and nephrite artifacts. Work continues on the 
source of early iron blooms found in the vicinity of Baffin Island, 
Canada, and on ceramics (3500 B.C.) from Tal-y-malyan, Iran. Also 
under way are studies of scoriae from metalworking areas and 
obsidian from Tal-y-malyan (adding a further dimension to the 
ceramic studies) and studies of fifteenth- and sixteenth-century 
production of Spanish majolica and of nephrite artifacts from sites 
in Labrador. 

Dr. Susan Hobbs, an art historian and a Smithsonian Research 
Associate, will continue her collaboration with cal on the study of 
the paintings of Thomas Wilmer Dewing, using the techniques of 
neutron induced autoradiography and infrared reflectography. This 



Museum Programs I 229 



project involves a major integration of cal departments. Roland 
Cunningham and Timothy Vitale, conservators, and Joan Mishara, 
trained in conservation and now doing X-ray radiography, have 
been working together with National Bureau of Standards staff. 

Jacqueline Olin, administrator of the Archaeometry Department, 
has been appointed to the Archaeometry Symposium Standing 
Committee. This is in conjunction with the organization of the 
1984 symposium at the Smithsonian, which she and Dr. Blackman 
are organizing. 

National Museum Act Programs 

In keeping with the original legislation of 1966, the National Mu- 
seum Act (nma) continued to provide support for professional 
museum training, for research projects and special studies involv- 
ing critical museum-related problems, for workshops and seminars, 
and for various activities of professional museum associations that 
broadly affect the field. The 1983 guidelines encouraged the sub- 
mission of applications that would increase knowledge about de- 
terioration mechanisms and materials used by conservators and 
that would heighten conservation awareness and improve preser- 
vation practices in the museum community. A special category of 
grants was continued to specifically assist individuals who wish 
to pursue conservation as a career. 

In 1983, 144 applications requesting a total of $2,878,450 were 
received. After review by an eleven-member Advisory Council, 
sixty-four grants were awarded with available program funds that 
totaled $693,000. Fifty-one of the grants, representing $508,000 
of the entire amount spent, involved training or research in con- 
servation. 

Grants in the area of professional training provide support for 
museum training programs in academic institutions, internship pro- 
grams in museums, and seminars. One of the graduate training 
programs that received support and that specializes in conserva- 
tion studies is a collaborative effort between a university and a 
nearby decorative arts museum. An active program of internation- 
ally renowned visiting experts and opportunities for internships 
here and abroad expose students to the most recent knowledge 



230 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



and techniques. Almost without exception, graduates of the pro- 
gram have estabhshed themselves professionally in positions that 
will enable them to make important contributions. 

Two of the museum internship grants focused on the problem 
of increasing the representation of minorities in the museum field. 
They will offer opportunities for blacks and Hispanics to gain 
experience in the full range of museum activities at well-estab- 
lished institutions. Most of the awards for seminars involved the 
care and preservation of collections in all types of museums, in- 
cluding zoos. Topics ranged from archeometry, or the application 
of the physical sciences to archeology, and microscopy for textile 
conservators to the latest techniques in paper conservation. 

Grants for special studies and research included an important 
project that will involve seven museums here and abroad as well 
as computer specialists, conservators, and art historians. Fifteenth- 
century Netherlandish paintings will be studied by means of in- 
frared reflectography to increase knowledge about dating, attribu- 
tion, and workshop procedures. Computers will be used in an 
attempt to improve infrared reflectography as a tool, and results 
of the research will be disseminated through a publication and 
symposium at a major museum. 



Office of Exhibits Central 

In July 1982 the Office of Exhibits Central (oec) marked its tenth 
year of operation under the assistant secretary for Museum Pro- 
grams. During this period, the oec has completed an average of 
200 separate projects each year, working with every bureau or 
program office in the Smithsonian. Oec staff members have pro- 
vided graphic support for every Folklife Festival and for the Smith- 
sonian Associates' Regional Activities Program and have served 
as faculty in the Professional Workshops of the Office of Museum 
Programs (omp). Each year the oec has installed an average of two 
special exhibitions in the Smithsonian Castle Building, and in the 
last decade more than 200 exhibitions have been designed, edited, 
and produced for the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition 
Service (sites). 



Museum Programs I 231 



Rolland O. Hower — Rollie to his many friends, colleagues, and 
students — retired after thirty years of service to the Smithsonian 
Institution. Rollie served as chief of exhibits at the National Mu- 
seum of Natural History (nmnh), then as chief of that office's 
Research and Development Unit, and finally as chief of the Freeze- 
Dry Laboratory, the position from which he retired. Rollie was a 
pioneer in the freeze-drying of biological specimens, and his book 
on this process is the definitive work on the subject. Over the 
years Rollie took on many special assignments. He initiated the 
OMp's Workshop Program. He served as consultant to govern- 
ment agencies, universities, hospitals, and other museums, most 
notably the National Museum of India. He trained students and 
interns from all over the world and assisted the careers of many 
Smithsonian exhibits specialists. 

The position of chief. Exhibit Editor's Office, which had been 
vacant for over a year, was redefined and filled this year. Karen 
Hummer Fort accepted the position of assistant to the chief, oec, 
which carries the responsibilities of chief editor as well as the ad- 
ministrative management of oec offices in the Arts and Industries 
Building, including the phototypesetting unit. Karen has been re- 
sponsible for expanding the role of the oec editor's office to serve 
the Smithsonian National Associate Program. She has also partici- 
pated in the graphic design of dec projects for both exhibitions 
and publications, greatly increasing quality and productivity. 

In other personnel actions, oec reluctantly bade farewell to Ann 
Swaim, a temporary appointee in the Design Unit who valiantly 
labored for more than a year on a large number of exhibitions, 
performing all the "nitty-gritty" details of coordinating large proj- 
ects through production. Her work on Ban Chiang: Discovery of a 
Lost Bronze Age, a sites exhibition, was outstanding. Mary Dillon 
joined the oec design staff and in quick succession designed six 
SITES exhibitions. She also designed the graphics for the 1983 
Women's Week activities at the Smithsonian and took on full re- 
sponsibility for the design and installation of a major special exhi- 
bition in the lounge of the Castle, Painting as a Pastime: The 
Paintings of Winston S. Churchill. 

The OEC also installed 300 Years of German Immigration in the 
Castle's lounge this past year, produced signs for the Quadrangle 
construction site, provided graphic support for several special 



232 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



events, and designed and installed an exhibition of decorated Easter 
eggs on the White House lawn. 

The major thrust of work, however, was directed toward sites 
projects. With more than thirty new sites exhibitions, 1983 has 
been the oec's most active year in this area. In connection with 
this, the OEC put into operation a new Specimen Storage Facility 
in its shops at North Capitol Street. This facility — equipped with 
alarms and its own fire-suppression system — is actually a staging 
area where museum objects can be held in a humidity-and- 
temperature-controlled vault during the production phases of the 
exhibitions in which they will be presented. The major components 
of the facility are modular *and can be removed for relocation. 

The new exhibitions prepared for sites included a wide variety 
of topics and content materials, all requiring special treatment in 
design, editing, and production, as well as coordination with indi- 
viduals and organizations within and without the Institution. Out 
of Africa was a traveling version of an exhibition originally pro- 
duced at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum; Raphael Soyer 
was first presented by the Hirshhorn Museum; Black ]AIings was 
based on an exhibition at the National Air and Space Museum; 
F.D.R. and Building Brooklyn Bridge were originally presented at 
the National Museum of American History; and so on. 

Building Brooklyn Bridge was unique — but typical — of oec/sites 
projects. The curator of the exhibition was Robert M. Vogel, De- 
partment of the History of Science and Technology at the National 
Museum of American History (nmah); the designer was William 
Jacobs, senior designer, Department of Exhibits, nmah (formerly 
an OEC designer); the editor was Karen Fort, oec; and the exhibi- 
tion was produced for installation at nmah by the nmah depart- 
ment. The OEC produced a major model for the exhibition, a highly 
detailed cutaway of the Delaware River Aqueduct. This is an 
original model developed from blueprints and photographs of that 
important bridge by John Augustus Roebling, designer of the 
Brooklyn Bridge. The sites exhibition coordinator, Debbie Daw- 
son, then worked with oec editors, model-makers, and graphics 
and fabrication staff to modify the exhibition content for travel. 
Building Brooklyn Bridge will tour for about two years in the 
United States and Canada. 

In last year's Smithsonian Year, the oec announced the com- 



Museum Programs I 233 



pletion of the exhibition Ban Chiang: Discovery of a Lost Bronze 
Age and its original installation at the University Museum, Uni- 
versity of Pennsylvania. It has since been presented in Texas and 
Kentucky and is now being installed in the Evans Gallery, Na- 
tional Museum of Natural History, for a Washington, D.C., presen- 
tation on its two-and-one-half-year tour. The exhibition will then 
be prepared for shipment to Thailand, where it will remain. These 
projects best describe oec activities of the past year — and the past 
ten years. 

On December 6, 1982, James A. Mahoney, Jr., chief of the oec, 
received an award and a certificate "in official recognition and 
appreciation of exceptional service rendered in the performance of 
duty." This award is greatly appreciated and recognizes the entire 
DEC. In addition to designing several exhibitions this year, Jim 
Mahoney served on a jury for the United States Information 
Agency to pick a design firm to develop the U.S. Pavilion at Expo 
85 in Tsukuba, Japan. He also designed a new service pin for the 
Institution. 

Oifice of Horticulture 

Continuing to expand its educational, research, and exhibition ac- 
tivities during fiscal year 1983, the Office of Horticulture acquired 
several thousand antique seed trade catalogues, completed the re- 
moval of all of the trees, shrubs, and perennials from the former 
Victorian Garden, and provided protection for the rare European 
linden in the Quadrangle project area. The office also developed 
landscaping for the new Museum Support Center and the East 
Garden, and planned and supervised the installation of the highly 
successful American Garden at the IV. Internationale Gartenbau- 
Austellung in Munich, West Germany. 

Other activities included sponsorship of the Mid-Atlantic Re- 
gional Meeting of the American Association of Botanical Gardens 
and Aboreta, the addition of several thousand new orchids to the 
collection, and negotiation of the donation of a fine collection of 
antique greenhouses from a private estate. All of this was in addi- 
tion to ongoing horticultural support for all Smithsonian bureaus. 
Once again, the dedicated performance of volunteers, interns, and 



234 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




The new East Garden, planted by the Office of Horticulture, includes a wide 
variety of special plants and Victorian garden accessories, all particularly 
intended to appeal to the five senses. 



work-study students allowed the office to accomplish many of 
these new ventures without expansion of its staff. 

Support for the Smithsonian special events program continued 
with more than 4,500 plants being supplied for use in 284 events. 
These included the three annual Regents dinners; the Doubleday 
Lecture Series; the celebration of the Freer's sixtieth anniversary; 
the activities for Musical Weekend; and the annual Portrait Ball 
for Contributing Members — all of which required special staff 
attention and supplies to make them a success. Once again, the 
office coordinated the decorations for the annual Women's Com- 
mittee Christmas Ball by providing forty-three white flocked and 
green cut trees for the occasion. In similar fashion, the office con- 
tinued to use tropical plants, seasonal flowering plants, floral ar- 
rangements, and plants from its permanent collections for many 
other special events. 

Special tours of the greenhouses at the United States Soldiers' 
and Airmen's Home were conducted for a variety of groups, and 
lectures on orchids and other subjects were given by staff and vol- 
unteers. In April members of the District of Columbia Branch of 
the Professional Grounds Management Society held their monthly 
meeting in the Arts and Industries Building with the Office of 
Horticulture as host. A lecture, "Environmental Plant Stress," was 
presented by Dr. Robert Howell of the U.S. Department of Agri- 
culture. 

The sixth annual Trees of Christmas exhibition at the National 
Museum of American History was coordinated by volunteer staff- 
aide Dixie Rettig, under the supervision of Lauranne C. Nash of 
the Education/Research Division. This extremely popular exhibit 
featured twelve trees presented by outside volunteers or groups. 
Four trees were presented for the first time: "Enchanted Wonder- 
land" by Elaine E. Head; "International Paper Tree" by Donna 
Morgan; "Bread Dough Dummies" by Barbara Hanft; and "Birds 
of Paradise" by the Naval Officers' Wives Club, Washington, D.C., 
and the Awa Lau Wahine, Hawaii; the remaining eight were re- 
peated from previous years. Most of the ornaments were hand- 
made, and represented the cultural and ethnic backgrounds of the 
groups or artists sponsoring the trees. All ornaments were added 
to the permanent collection at the close of the exhibit. 

In July the office was host for the 1983 Mid-Atlantic Regional 



236 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Meeting of the American Association of Botanical Gardens and 
Arboreta (aabga). Fifty-two people from the mid- Atlantic region 
(New York to South Carolina, and as far west as Illinois) regis- 
tered for the conference, which was entitled "Horticulture in a 
Museum Setting" and focused on such topics as fund-raising, 
grant applications, and museum workshops. Panelists included rep- 
resentatives from the Office of Exhibits Central, the Smithsonian 
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, the Office of Museum 
Programs, and the Smithsonian Associates, as well as the National 
Endowment for the Arts, the National Endowment for the Human- 
ities, the Institute for Museum Services, the Foundation Center, 
the University of Maryland, Mt. Vernon, and two landscape archi- 
tects from the Washington, D.C., firm of Oehme-Van Sweden and 
Associates. The program was organized by James R. Buckler and 
the details were coordinated by Lauranne Nash with Susan 
Lathrop, executive director of aabga. 

With the assistance of the Office of Information Resource Man- 
agement, the Office of Horticulture continued to refine its com- 
puter program for the Plant Records System used for accessioning 
permanent collections, making it more useful for inventory, re- 
search, and collections management purposes. Libby Ellis Roberts 
continued to work with the program and update plant records. 
More than 4,000 record cards produced during the year were in- 
corporated into the current file by intern Angela Ruspi. Another 
phase of the records system involves the production of up-to-date 
landscape plans, complete with accession numbers to facihtate the 
installation of brass labels for plants. This project has been han- 
dled by Maureen Coleman, a landscape designer temporarily em- 
ployed in the Education Division. 

The book collection of the Office of Horticulture became an 
official branch of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries during the 
fiscal year. This new branch will be a great resource not only for 
Horticulture staff members but for visiting scholars as well. A flow 
chart of activity for improved management of the collection was 
devised and is being carried out by volunteer Marguerite Mac- 
Mahon. Several thousand historic seed trade catalogues obtained 
through the generosity of Mrs. David Burpee and the W. Atlee 
Burpee Company constitute a major acquisition, and supplement 
the large collection given by the same donors in 1982. 



Museum Programs I 237 



The Horticulture internship program, now in its second year, 
helped the office answer many inquiries received from all over the 
country. Two interns, Angela Ruspi, a freshman entering Penn 
State, Gail Clayton, from Arizona State University, spent the sum.- 
mer working in the several divisions of the office, where they were 
exposed to genuine work situations relating to their studies. 

The interior plant program continues to be a vital part of exhibi- 
tions in Smithsonian museums. Although some displays are 
changed on a rotating basis, approximately 2,000 permanent in- 
terior plants are on view in the ten museums involved. This pro- 
gram provides educational support to such exhibitions as Japanese 
Ceramics, shown in the National Museum of Natural History, for 
which authentic bamboo (Phyllostachys dulcis) was acquired and 
maintained under adverse conditions in the museum for the dura- 
tion of the exhibition. This same bamboo is also used in the Freer 
Gallery's permanent exhibition halls as a complement to the 
collection. 

The Arts and Industries Rotunda remains as one of the primary 
exhibition areas for the display of specimen tropicals, seasonal 
flowering crops, and collection plants, all on a rotating schedule. 
The special exhibition of orchids, bromeliads, and tropicals contin- 
ued to be displayed in the foyer of the National Museum of Nat- 
ural History. Permanent interior displays are renovated when 
needed, as was the collection at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp- 
ture Garden in 1983. 

The interior plant staff is supplemented by the dedicated services 
of three volunteers, Bruce Buntin, Dorothy High and Charlene 
Hescock, who continued to be responsible for the exhibit A Vic- 
torian Horticultural Extravaganza. 

August A. Dietz IV, manager of the Greenhouse-Nursery Divi- 
sion, was responsible for major renovations to the complex. 
Greenhouse number 8, which collapsed in the February blizzard, 
has now been completely rebuilt with an improved support system 
to withstand the weight of heavy snow and ice buildup. Fortu- 
nately, only a few plants were lost in this disaster because of the 
quick response of the Office of Horticulture staff on duty that 
weekend. Other improvements were made to the nursery area. 

The Black River orchid collection was donated to the Institution 
in the fall of 1982. This collection of approximately 10,000 plants 



238 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



has been repotted and is now under observation to verify its 
flowering habits. Once flowering has occurred, an evaluation of 
each plant will be made to determine which plants are of collec- 
tion quality. The collection comprises about 6,000 species of 
orchids collected from all parts of the world. The 4,000 showy 
hybrids are a mixture of cattleyas, phalaenopsis, cymbidiums, with 
a few miltonias, oncidiums, and paphiopedilums. The culling out 
should be completed during the coming year. Mrs. Rudolph Pabst, 
donor of the renowned Pabst Collection in 1979, has offered to 
make a substantial donation of additional plants to the Office of 
Horticulture in 1984. 

The orchid collection has now grown to include more than 
40,000 plants, primarily of rare and endangered species and showy 
and historic hybrids. 

The bromeliad collection was thoroughly reviewed during the 
year and unnecessary duplicates were removed so that a total of 
500 specimens remained. 

The Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates do- 
nated $2,500 for the development of a new scientific flasking 
laboratory at the greenhouse-nursery facility. This sum will be 
used to buy and install equipment and sterile facilities to propa- 
gate rare and endangered species through tissue culture. 

The Greenhouse-Nursery Division produced 42,000 annuals, 
12,850 cut flowers, 11,500 seasonal potted plants, and 600 tropicals 
for interior plant displays and special events. The division is able 
to alter and change crop types and numbers to keep up with varied 
and ever-changing needs of the bureaus. Interest in this production 
facility continues and is reflected in the thirty formal and informal 
tours given in the last year to both orchid fanciers and specialists, 
and individuals interested in horticulture in general. 

The Grounds Management Division, under the direction of 
Kenneth Hawkins, had another productive year with the planting 
of more than 40,000 spring flowering bulbs, 8,000 pansies, 20,000 
summer annuals; and with the display of 70 assorted tropicals and 
large flowering plants used to accent flowerbeds and walkways. 
This was also a year for several improvement projects on the 
grounds: irrigation was installed in the East Garden; a cast-iron 
Victorian fountain was installed on the patio of the National 



Museum Programs I 239 



Museum of African Art; and several of the museums turf areas 
were reseeded or resodded. 

The new East Garden was planted after an extensive search for 
the special plant materials needed to meet the requirements of the 
plan. Two areas of the National Air and Space Museum were re- 
done. Large planters with tropical trees and annuals were installed 
on the terrace and planter boxes with evergreens and annuals were 
completed for use on the patio in the new Smithsonian Food 
Services restaurant. Vines were planted to complement the existing 
landscape and the walls of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture 
Garden. New rose beds provided a popular display at the east end 
of the Smithsonian Institution Building. 

One of the division's major accomplishments of the year was 
supervision for the contractual moving of trees and shrubs from 
the Victorian Garden site to other areas in preparation for the 
Quadrangle project. John Monday, assistant director, and Demes 
Hazelton, gardener leader, supervised the work of the Davey Tree 
Company as they moved more than 400 trees and shrubs from the 
garden to other sites. The new Museum Support Center at Suit- 
land, Maryland, was the destination of 116 trees and shrubs rang- 
ing from three feet to twenty-five feet in height. Plants from the 
garden were also transplanted to the grounds of the Smithsonian 
Castle, the Natural History Museum, the Air and Space Museum, 
and the Hirshhorn Museum. The division moved more than 2,000 
perennials and 100 roses with its own resources to the nursery, 
where they were over-wintered before being replanted on the 
grounds in the spring of 1983. 

Responsibility for the upkeep of the more than twenty-six acres 
of grass, trees, fence lines, roads, and parking lots at the Museum 
Support Center required the recruitment and orientation of two 
new full-time gardeners. 

The Smithsonian again offered a special display at the annual 
winter flower show (Florafest IV) at the United States Botanic 
Garden. The 600-square-foot exhibition featured the front en- 
trance of a Victorian house, landscaped with tropical trees, orchids, 
forced flowering plants, urns, benches, and a fountain, all authentic 
to the period. 

"This year the Smithsonian has embarked for the first time on 
an international venture in horticulture. Secretary Ripley wrote in 



240 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



the Smithsonian magazine of July 1983. The IV. International 
Horticulture Exhibition (hereinafter known as IGA 83) opened in 
Munich, West Germany, on April 28, 1983, and continued until 
October 9, 1983. Under development since 1978, iga 83 comprised 
an area of seventy-three acres and included thirty spectacular 
gardens, combined with an extensive schedule of educational exhi- 
bitions, lectures, and entertainment. International horticultural 
exhibitions were originated after World War II by many European 
countries to restore green spaces to the central sectors of war- 
ravaged cities. West Germany produces an iga every decade, and 
Munich, the beautiful capital of Bavaria, was chosen to host this 
year's exposition. 

During the formulative stages of IGA 83, an appeal was made to 
several United States government agencies to sponsor a national 
garden, but no action was taken. In the spring of 1982, Mrs. 
Honore Wamsler, an American citizen who loves gardens and lives 
in Bavaria, expressed to Secretary Ripley her concern about the 
lack of United States representation and proposed that if the 
Smithsonian Institution would accept the sponsorship, design, and 
coordination of the installation of an American garden, she would 
take the responsibility for securing funding for the project from 
private sources. The proposal was accepted, and James Buckler, 
director of the Office of Horticulture, agreed to carry out this sig- 
nificant first-time international horticultural participation by the 
Institution. Kathryn Meehan, a horticultural consultant, was re- 
tained to assist Buckler with the design, drafting, and installation 
of the garden, as well as the coordination of the budget, shipping, 
and other activities surrounding the entire project. 

The outstanding site designated for the American Garden was 
approximately one-half acre in area, with a magnificent vista 
across the lake to the majestic Rose Hill. The design reflected the 
American nineteenth-century-style garden of 1840-1900, with 
typical landscape elements such as a meandering walkway, color- 
ful floral bedding patterns (including the Smithsonian Institution 
sunburst), a small vegetable garden, an orchard, and an open ex- 
panse of lawn, kripwn during the period as "pleasure ground," 
which maximized the impressive vista to the Rose Hill. Construc- 
tion of elements included a vine-covered pergola, a romantic 
bower, and a picturesque summerhouse, duplicated from an orig- 



Museum Programs I 241 



inal which stands on the grounds at the U.S. Soldiers' Home. 
Reproductions of cast-iron garden furnishings, so popular during 
this period, were included in the American Garden. 

A goal of $220,000 was determined to be necessary to cover 
expenses for the garden. This sum was far more modest than that 
assigned to other national representations; and the project was 
accomplished in far less time (only eight months). The project 
was made possible by a number of outstanding in-kind contribu- 
tions in the form of architectural assistance, shipping of equip- 
ment handled by Delta Airlines, transportation and shipping by 
Pan American World Airways, and the steadfast support of vari- 
ous Smithsonian bureaus. Dr. Detlef Marx, director of IGA 83, and 
his staff carried out the construction and maintenance of the gar- 
den in the finest way, and* Mrs. Wamsler was in constant motion 
both as fund raiser and American liaison with German contacts 
outside the IGA 83 administration. Their commitment to the proj- 
ect was as outstanding as it was indispensable. 

Because of a desire by the Office of Horticulture to have other 
American horticultural organizations represented at IGA 83, a sur- 
vey was sent out requesting data and graphics from individual 
botanical gardens and arboreta. This material was organized into 
two exhibitions: one mounted on perusal boards permanently in- 
stalled in the summerhouse at the American Garden and a larger 
one displayed at Amerika Haus during June and July. About eighty 
organizations responded with outstanding material. Sally Tomlin- 
son, a dedicated Horticulture volunteer, was primarily responsible 
for completing this enormous task. 

Each of the nations represented at IGA was honored during a 
special week. American Week was designated to be from June 11- 
17. The Office of Horticulture (represented by Buckler and Mrs. 
Meehan) mounted the exhibition American Public Gardens and 
Aboreta at Amerika Haus, and Buckler lectured on the same sub- 
ject. The Americans were honored by a special reception given by 
Minister-President Franz-Joseph Strauss in the Antiquarium of the 
Residenz. Christian Hohenlohe, Treasurer of the Smithsonian, was 
present for the reception and responded for the Institution to 
Dr. Strauss's welcoming speech. Other events included concerts by 
the United States Army bands from Stuttgart and Augsberg; per- 
formances by the Texas State German Dancers; and a reception 



242 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



for all members of the Garden Club of Bavaria who assisted in 
this monumental project. 

On July 6 American Ambassador to Germany Arthur Burns and 
Mrs. Burns visited the American Garden. Remarkable attendance 
has been sustained since IGA's opening day, the numbers having 
far exceeded the originally projected eight to ten million visitors. 
Most of the exhibition gardens will be removed, but IGA 83 has 
proven its universal appeal and this fine park will remain as a 
legacy for the city of Munich and the pleasure of all its people. 

In addition to the IGA 83, Buckler presented lectures on "The 
Horticultural Extravaganza of the Victorian Era" at the following 
institutions or historic sites: George Washington University; Wave 
Hill Landscape Conference, New York City; Benze School of Floral 
Design of the Texas A&M University; lecture and training session 
for the National Museum of American History Docents for the 
Centennial Exhibition; Rhode Island Horticultural Society; Ken- 
tucky Museum Conference on 19th Century Living; and at the 
Art in Bloom exhibition at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts. He 
also gave a special lecture on "Gardens of the United States" in 
Munich; a lecture and exhibition on "19th Century Seedsmen, 
Plantsmen, and Nurserymen" at the 100th anniversary of the 
American Seed Trade Association in San Francisco; a lecture on 
"A Victorian Horticultural Extravaganza" at the Cleveland Garden 
Center; on "Horticulture in a Museum Setting" at the Mid- Atlantic 
Regional Meeting of the American Association of Botanical Gar- 
dens and Arboreta; and a presentation to Smithsonian Resident 
Associates concerning "Horticulture in a Museum Setting." 

In addition, the director has been working very closely on the 
selection of the specimen trees for the Quadrangle; searching for 
and purchasing antique Victorian Garden furnishings (urns, 
benches, wickets, etc.) for the Quadrangle; and selecting new hor- 
ticultural items for the Smithsonian catalogue. He has served on 
the Advisory Board of the National Colonial Farm of the National 
Park Service and organized an all-day lecture-seminar presented in 
October 1983 on "Horticulture in America, France, and Great 
Britain during the Period 1750-1830" to highlight the Bicentennial 
celebration of the Treaty of Paris. 

The Office of Horticulture has entered fiscal year 1984 with a 
new and exciting outlook for further development of educational 



Museum Programs I 243 



research and exhibition programs in horticulture. In September 
1983, a reorganization plan was approved, allowing the office to 
streamline its overall functions and separate the grounds manage- 
ment from the collections management functions. This move will 
strengthen the office's ability to handle adequately its collection of 
plants, garden accessories, florist memorabilia, as well as its assis- 
tance to other museums, arboreta, and botanical gardens through- 
out the United States. 

Office of International Activities 

The objects of cultural history and the specimens of natural his- 
tory preserved in Smithsonian museums, as well as the profes- 
sional people who study and exhibit them, are involved in a global 
research and education process. The Office of International Activi- 
ties (oia) contributes to this process by fostering international 
dimensions of Smithsonian programs. It does so by advising pro- 
gram managers and by maintaining liaison with the United States 
and foreign governments, with private institutions around the 
world, and with international organizations. 

Oia services to Smithsonian programs increased substantially 
in fiscal year 1983. Logistical and liaison functions supporting 
Smithsonian initiatives totaled 286, up from 224 in 1982 and 119 
in 1981. Bearing in mind that the nature of the services varies 
greatly from one project to another, total oia services for 1983 
were 770, compared to 465 in 1982 and 527 in 1981. In addition 
to direct Smithsonian project support, services included scheduling 
foreign dignitaries' visits to the Institution, processing exchange 
visitors and student visa applications, advising on immigration and 
citizenship questions, and responding to queries by like-minded 
institutions at home and abroad. 

Support for development of the new Center for Asian, Near 
Eastern, and African Cultures, The Quadrangle, was provided by 
the OIA throughout the year. Secretary Ripley's plans to attract 
participation in its establishment and in its programs from foreign 
nations of that region, involved the oia in preparations for his 
visits to Egypt and Morocco in October and November 1982. In 
February and March 1983, the Secretary, accompanied by Paul N. 



244 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Perrot, assistant secretary for Museum Programs, visited Bahrain, 
Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emi- 
rates, as well. At the year's end, James McK. Symington, director 
of the Office of Membership and Development, traveled to Singa- 
pore and Malaysia, with oia assistance, to prepare the way for the 
Secretary's visits to those countries and others in Southeast Asia 
in the year ahead. 

The OIA also managed the visits to the Smithsonian of digni- 
taries from the Asian and African region, among others, during 
the past year. These visitors included their Royal Highnesses The 
Sultan and Raja Perempuan of Perak, Malaysia; Mrs. Susan 
Mubarek, wife of President Hosni Mubarek of Egypt; Prime Min- 
ister Surya Bahadur Thapa of Nepal; His Highness Shaikh Isa 
Bin Salman Al Khalifa, the Amir of Bahrain; the Honorable 
Ranasinghe Premadasa, Prime Minister of Sri Lanka; Mrs. Joyce 
Gemayel, wife of President Amin Gemayel of Lebanon; and Major 
Fong Sip Chee, Minister of State for Culture of Singapore. 

While Quadrangle activities were especially important this year, 
logistical support and liaison for the international dimensions of 
other Smithsonian bureaus increased. For example, the oia sought 
the assistance of American embassies abroad, particularly for field 
work carried out by researchers from the National Museum of 
Natural History. Projects illustrative of this work included: marine 
research under Walter Adey, curator in the Department of Paleo- 
biology, who initiated an experiment in the aquaculture of edible 
crabs on Mayaguana Island of the Bahamas; ecological research on 
the Aldabra Islands in the Seychelles under the direction of C. W. 
Hart, curator in the Department of Invertebrate Zoology; the study 
of a late Paleolithic skeleton some 20,000 years old from Egypt by 
T. Dale Stewart, anthropologist emeritus in the Department of 
Anthropology; entomological collecting in Sabah Province, Malay- 
sia by Gary Hevel, collections manager in the Department of Ento- 
mology; and the Smithsonian's first marine botany field work in 
China, carried out by James Norris, curator of Marine Botany. 
But the office also provided liaison with the Department of State 
as well as other foreign and international organizations on matters 
like the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service ex- 
hibition The Precious Legacy: Judaic Treasures from the Czecho- 
slovak State Collections. 



Museum Programs I 245 



The oiA served Smithsonian interests in other ways also. The 
Department of State, for example, included the office in delibera- 
tions concerning United States relations with the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (unesco) as well 
as in preparation of the United States-Brazil Science and Tech- 
nology Agreement and of a similar agreement with Thailand. The 
office also represented the Institution on the Interagency Steering 
Committee on U.S. German Contacts under the chairmanship of 
Charles Wick, director of the United States Information Agency. 
Within the framework of this committee, the oia coordinated the 
contributions of nine Smithsonian bureaus to the celebration of the 
Tricentennial of German settlement in Philadelphia. 



Office of Museum Programs 

The Office of Museum Programs (omp) provides training, services, 
information, and assistance for the professional enhancement of 
museum personnel and institutions throughout the United States 
and abroad. Its objectives are fulfilled by coordinated activities 
that are woven into a total program of distinct but interrelated 
activities, services and research into methods that will improve the 
effectiveness and impact of museum operations and practices. 

Based on the diverse and extensive resources and expertise of 
the Smithsonian and assuming responsibilities and obligations of 
the national museums, the Office of Museums Programs offers 
museum-training workshops, both in Washington, D.C., and on- 
site, arranges for internships, short-term professional visits, and 
foreign professional training and group projects; produces and dis- 
tributes audiovisual presentations on conservation theory, pre- 
ventive care and practice and educational programming; provides 
training, technical assistance, and consultation services for Native 
American museums; maintains a unique and comprehensive mu- 
seum reference center consisting of books, periodicals, research 
papers, subject matter files, and documents on museums and their 
operations, open and available to museum professionals and re- 
searchers; produces publications on museum-related topics; offers 



246 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



counseling and consulting services and conferences on museum 
careers, training, and museum practices. 

The grouping of these functions into one program enables the 
Institution to respond effectively and directly to the multitude of 
requests received from museums throughout the United States and 
abroad for assistance and guidance in improving their own opera- 
tional methods, practices, and techniques. It utilizes the Smith- 
sonian resources, which can contribute to the betterment of mu- 
seum operations generally, and has the added benefit of keeping 
the staff of the Institution informed and aware of museological 
developments elsewhere. 

The Office of Museum Programs, coordinating with Smithsonian 
conservators and local universities, is providing the central plan- 
ning force for a graduate Conservation Training program to be 
centered at the Smithsonian Institution Support Center. 

The Kellogg Foundation, recognizing the scope and breadth of 
the Office of Museum Programs' national and international activi- 
ties, awarded a generous three-year grant to the office and the 
Resident Associates Program "to expand the educational influence 
of museums" everywhere. With the guidance of a national advi- 
sory committee, the omp will implement the program through col- 
loquia, workshops, residencies, and videotapes for professional 
museum leadership throughout the United States. Interacting with 
colleagues and representatives of community resources such as 
universities, libraries, corporations, organizations, and school sys- 
tems, the program will emphasize and promote the educational 
impact of the total museum as an educational institution. 

WORKSHOPS 

The Office of Museum Programs sponsors an annual schedule of 
approximately thirty three-to-five-day workshops, which provide 
training opportunities for museum professionals from the United 
States and abroad. These workshops, which are held at the Smith- 
sonian Institution and on-site, focus on current theories and prac- 
tices in the field, and make both human and material resources 
available to the larger museum community. 

Faculty members for the Workshop Series are drawn from the 
Institution's staff and from outside experts who offer specialized 
information or speak from a particular perspective. Subjects cover 



Museum Programs I 247 



a broad range of topics, including museum management, museum 
shop management, museums and older adults, family program- 
ming, fundraising, educational programming, conservation, collec- 
tions management, exhibition design and production, volunteer 
and docent training, audiovisuals, security, storage and handling, 
registration methods, computerization, and archives administration. 

During 1983 more than 555 museum professionals enrolled in 
the workshops and seminar sessions. This represented nearly 
double the number of participants in the previous year. Enroll- 
ment represented all types, sizes, and disciplines of museums, and 
a broad geographic distribution, including forty states in the con- 
tinental United States, Alaska, and the District of Columbia. In 
addition, museum professionals from Australia, Belgium, Bermuda, 
Canada, Great Britain, Indonesia, New Zealand, and West Ger- 
many participated. 

Mary Lynn Perry, Training Program coordinator, in addition 
to administering the workshop series and supervising the Intern- 
ship and Visiting Professionals Program, developed on-site work- 
shops in cooperation with George Washington University's Divi- 
sion of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions and the Vir- 
ginia Association of Museums, the Alexandria Museum in Alexan- 
dria, Louisiana, The New England Museums Association, and the 
Nevada State Museum. With cooperation and cosponsorship by 
these museums and museum-related organizations, programs were 
presented by Smithsonian faculties to professionals in the field at 
no cost to the Institution. The on-site workshop program contin- 
ued to gain popularity in 1983, and sustained growth is anticipated 
in 1984. 

During 1983 the Training Program developed an on-site seminar 
"Older Adults and the Museum World: An Emerging Partnership" 
at the Huntington Library, Art Gallery and Botanical Gardens in 
San Marino, California. The seminar focused on the theoretical 
and practical aspects of aging, and sought ways in which cultural 
institutions could best serve and benefit from older audiences. 
Program development, staff and volunteer training, and funding 
were emphasized. The three-day seminar strove to stimulate the 
development of programs to increase opportunities for older adults 
to participate fully and rewardingly in a broad range of activities 
in museums, parks, and zoos as both visitors and contributors of 



248 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




The fourth annual "Education in Museums" project, which was cosponsored 
by the Office of Museum Programs and the United States Information 
Agency, brought together twenty foreign museum professionals. Participants 
li Satiadinata (left) of Indonesia and Sharif Saud Muhtem of Yemen are 
shown at the Herpetology Lab of the National Zoo. 



time and service. The program was cosponsored by the Office of 
Museum Programs, the National Institute on Aging, the Johns 
Hopkins University, the National Council on the Aging, and the 
Grand Peoples Company of Los Angeles. Transcripts of the semi- 
nar will be published and available in late 1983. Owing to the suc- 
cess of this seminar, a program on the same topic was incorporated 
into the annual Washington-based workshop series. 

INTERNSHIP PROGRAM 

The Smithsonian Office of Museum Programs Internship Program 
offers specialized training in museum practices to undergraduate 
and graduate students and professionals employed in the field. 
Individuals from the United States and foreign countries are eli- 
gible to participate. During 1983 the program, coordinated by 
Raymond Branham, placed fifty individuals in internship positions 
throughout the Institution and responded to 335 requests for in- 
ternship information and applications. Eight of these persons were 
from foreign countries. The internships often carry academic credit, 
but no stipends are provided by the omp. The average length of an 
internship is from three to six months, with shorter or longer 
programs available. 

The focus of the internships is on museum practices; intern 
assignments may involve training in administration, education, 
collections management, conservation, registration, exhibit design 
and production, and curatorial practices. Long-term interns, espe- 
cially those from foreign countries, often elect to travel as part of 
their programs. In such cases, the Office of Museum Programs 
prepares itineraries and contacts staff at appropriate museums 
throughout the United States and, in some cases, arrangements 
with foreign museums also may be made. Interns participate in a 
wide variety of programs in addition to their assignments. The 
Office of Museum Programs coordinates meetings, lectures, and 
special presentations by foreign interns to supplement the interns' 
museum experiences. In 1983 special presentations were given by 
Daniel Cofie, of Ghana, and Louise Upston, of New Zealand. 

In addition to regularly assigned responsibilities, interns were 
also encouraged to participate in the omp's annual Museum Careers 
Seminar Series, a nine-week program, from June 15 to August 10, 
which offered Smithsonian and other museum interns in the Wash- 



250 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



ington area exposure to a variety of career choices in the museum 
field. A total of thirty-three interns participated. To further enrich 
the seminar, special tours were offered, which included a behind- 
the-scenes exploration of the Castle, the Office of Exhibits Central, 
and the Conservation Laboratory of the Department of Anthro- 
pology. 

MULTICULTURAL EXTERNSHIP PROGRAM 

The Office of Museum Programs responds to special requests for 
programming related to museum studies and the museum profes- 
sion. During 1983 the Multicultural Career Intern Program (mcip) 
of the Multicultural Bilingual High School, Washington, D.C., 
requested special programs for more than 100 students, represent- 
ing thirteen countries. The school was designed as a national model 
to provide basic high school education and employment develop- 
ment services as an alternative approach for Washington's limited- 
English-speaking youth. 

The MCIP students are from Central American nations. South- 
east Asia, the Caribbean, and some are from African nations. 

Two types of programs were developed for the mcip students. 
First, the omp designed a series of four Museum Career Days to 
provide an overview of the museum profession. More than seventy- 
five students participated in these programs which incorporated 
behind-the-scenes tours and lectures. For an additional thirty-six 
students, who wished to gain a more in-depth overview of museum 
work, the omp developed one-week externships-work experiences 
— in a subject related to the student's career interest. Judging from 
student evaluations and discussions with supervisors, these pro- 
grams have been an overwhelming success, and will continue in 
1984. 

VISITING PROFESSIONALS PROGRAM 

A specialized service is offered to museum professionals interested 
in shorter periods of training and study than is required by the 
internship program. Through the Visiting Professionals Program, 
museum professionals gain access to collections and Smithsonian 
staff for concentrated discussion and consultation. The program is 
designed to serve individuals who are available for training periods 

Museum Programs I 251 



of up to one month and consist of a combination of meetings, 
workshop activities, demonstrations, research opportunities, and 
visits to museums selected to meet special training needs. During 
1983, eighty individuals, representing museums in the United 
States and abroad, took part in the program. 

INTERNATIONAL 

The fourth annual "Education in Museums" multiregional project 
cosponsored by the Office of Museum Programs and the United 
States Information Agency, was held March 27-April 24, 1983. 
The project brought together twenty educators, directors, and 
curators from Chile, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Gambia, Hungary, Indo- 
nesia, Jamaica, Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan, 
Romania, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Yemen, and Zimbabwe. The 
program provided experiences through which foreign and Ameri- 
can museum professionals could exchange information and view- 
points on museums as educational resources, as well as opportuni- 
ties to explore issues of concern to the profession. 

The OMP developed an intensive five-day seminar that explored 
various facets of museum education at the Institution. Topics in- 
cluded: an overview of museum education programs; school pro- 
grams; scholarly research, publications, access to museum collec- 
tions as education; membership programs; education programs for 
traveling exhibits; participatory programs for the general and fam- 
ily visitor; outreach programs; and programs for special audiences. 
Participants also had the choice of attending behind-the-scenes 
tours and viewing videotaped educational outreach programs. Fol- 
lowing the Washington program, the participants visited museums 
in New York, Chicago, Santa Fe, New Orleans, and San Francisco. 
On the last day of the stay in San Francisco an "Educators Forum" 
was convened. At this session the participants were asked to com- 
ment on what they had learned from the program. Atif Ghoneim, 
director of the Mohamad Aly Palace Museum, spoke of his newly 
discovered commitment to children's programs in museums: "the 
best thing I have seen in the United States is the way children are 
encouraged to visit and learn in museums. I will try to develop a 
children's museum in Egypt. The future is our children and they 
must know everything about the world in which we live." 



252 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



More than 150 books and catalogues were donated to the Smith- 
sonian for the Office of Museum Programs' Museum Reference 
Center by the participants. 

As a result of the success of this program, the omp has been 
asked to coordinate the fifth annual "education in museums" proj- 
ect for 1984 and to coordinate a new project concerning "Museum 
Administration" in October 1983. 

AUDIOVISUAL LOAN PROGRAM 
(CONSERVATION INFORMATION PROGRAM) 

The Conservation Information Program produces and distributes 
a series of educational, audiovisual information packages prepared 
for use primarily by museums and cultural institutions. The pack- 
ages consist of slide or videotape presentations, most of which 
are accompanied by a technical booklet. There are videotapes and 
slide-cassette programs available for short-term loan or sale to 
organizations or to individuals in the United States or Canada and 
for sale to countries abroad. 

The general aim is to sharpen observational skills and increase 
awareness of current practices in preventive care of museum collec- 
tions, and to encourage museum staff participation in protecting 
cultural property from both natural and man-made hazards. Some 
seek to enhance the skills of museum educators; to make staff 
more aware of visitors' needs; and to provide information on 
museum careers. 

New programs include an overview of the need for archives, 
"Tribal Archives"; the care of East Asian paintings; a new book- 
binding technique; dealing with visitors who are either visually 
or hearing-impaired; and an introduction to museum careers. 

Topics in preparation include the protection of cultural property, 
the preservation of photographic materials, and historic preserva- 
tion. 

Each audiovisual package is a joint effort of several individuals, 
and the content usually reflects the views and experiences of one 
or several subjects. All programs are designed to generate interest, 
discussion, and individual solutions to diverse problems of pre- 
serving, exhibiting, and interpreting collections. 

These presentations are most effective when used in organized 
training programs, but individualized usage is encouraged as well. 



Museum Programs I 253 



Since 1974, when the program began, 5,192 presentations have 
been sent on short-term loan. In 1983, 262 sUde shows and 188 
videotapes were requested by and lent to museums, related institu- 
tions, and individuals. 

In 1976 a sales program was initiated, in response to requests 
for these presentations from museums in foreign countries, as the 
loan program is limited to the United States and Canada. 

In 1983, eighty-seven sHde shows and seventy-four videotapes 
were sold to museums in Japan, Costa Rica, Northern Ireland, and 
the West Indies. In addition, 1,062 technical booklets were dis- 
seminated to institutions and individuals on request; some were 
sold and some were gifts. Copies of the technical booklets were 
also sent to libraries requesting them. 

A new audiovisual brochure was published and distributed in 
October 1983. 



THE NATIVE AMERICAN MUSEUMS PROGRAM 

The Native American Museums Program was established in 1977 
to coordinate assistance to Native American cultural institutions 
for the development of tribal research and cultural preservation 
programs. Through utilization of the vast human and program- 
matic resources of the Smithsonian and other related educational, 
cultural, and governmental organizations, the program provides 
specially designed training opportunities and resources information 
to the staff of Indian, Eskimo, and Aleut museums and cultural 
centers and to others who work closely with Native American 
collections. 

The Native American Museums Program activities — workshops, 
residencies, technical assistance, publications, and audiovisual pro- 
grams — are intended to promote the development of Native Amer- 
ican cultural institutions and the establishment of working rela- 
tionships among Native American community leaders, the broad 
museum field, and allied professions. The program has conducted 
fifteen workshops for over 400 people, sponsored thirty-five resi- 
dencies of two to twelve weeks' duration and serviced 105 requests 
for technical assistance. 

In 1983, forty-two individual information packets were re- 
searched in response to specific requests and fifty tribal groups 



254 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



were provided free-of-charge loans of the slide-cassette program, 
"Tribal Archives," produced by the Native American Museums 
Program and the Audiovisual Loan Program, Office of Museum 
Programs. 

This year's highlight was the presentation of "Ways of Effec- 
tively Addressing Cultural Responsibilities," a national workshop 
for fifty museum and cultural center directors and administrators. 
It provided Smithsonian faculty and Native American leaders 
with a forum to examine issues of common concern, to develop 
expertise, and to strengthen working relationships. The workshop 
was hosted by the Southwest Museum in Los Angeles June 12-15; 
major funding was provided by the Smithsonian Institution Edu- 
cational Outreach Program. Nancy Betschart and Stephanie Tor- 
rance contributed their services as administrative assistants. 

Two resource aids were completed: the educational guide to 
accompany "Tribal Archives" and Some Sources of Information 
for Native American Museums and Cultural Organizations, a list- 
ing of activities and agencies of special interest to Indian cultural 
needs. The Native American Museums Program newsletter con- 
tinued publication. It is mailed free-of-charge to 500 subscribers. 

To further the Native American Museums Program commit- 
ment of fostering relationships with the larger museum profession, 
the coordinator, Nancy J. Fuller, organized and chaired a session 
for the American Association of Museums Annual Meeting in 
San Diego. Tribal museum staff from the Suquamish Museum in 
Washington and the Oneida Nation Museum in Wisconsin out- 
lined their archives programs and future plans. The coordinator 
also made presentations at regional museum and Indian archives 
conferences. 

MUSEUM REFERENCE CENTER 

The Office of Museum Programs' Museum Reference Center, a 
branch of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries and the only com- 
prehensive museological documentation center in the United States, 
centers its activities around searching and providing information, 
bibliographic services, and distribution of materials to museum 
professionals and students researching specific aspects of museol- 
ogy and members of the public in need of museum administrative 
guidance. Administrators, curators, trustees, friends of museums. 

Museum Programs I 255 



educators, and students have received assistance with their investi- 
gations, problems, and studies in this field. 

The Museum Reference Center's staff and volunteers answered 
more than 1,500 inquiries originating from museums across the 
United States and Canada. Museum professionals in 110 countries 
abroad, university professors, students from graduate museum 
studies programs, Smithsonian staff, and interested members of 
the public used the center's resources. More than 500 persons from 
the United States and abroad visited the center to study, tour, and 
learn about its unique collections. To meet the need for reference 
sources in museology and museum administration, ten bibliogra- 
phies were compiled and published, bringing the total bibliogra- 
phies available to fifty-five. Among the topics covered was Older 
Americans' in Museums, Arts and Humanities, a bibliography pre- 
pared in conjunction with the Office of Museum Programs' first 
national seminar on "Older Adults and the Museum World: An 
Emerging Partnership." 

Other bibliographies and resource guides were published on 
Computers in Museums; Museum Architecture and Preservation; 
Disaster Planning in Cultural Institutions; The Role of the Trustee 
in Museums; Natural History Museums; and Families in Museums. 
Still other bibliographies were updated for the Office of Museum 
Programs Workshop series. 

The librarian, Catherine Scott, attended the International Fed- 
eration of Libraries Associations meeting held in Montreal and 
the Special Libraries Association's 1983 Conference in New Or- 
leans. She also explained the Museum Reference Center to the 
participants of the omp's Workshop Series on Museum Lighting; 
Archives; Volunteers; Storage and Handling; Managing Museum 
Shops; Computers; Registration; Museum Management; Develop- 
ing, Managing, and Maintaining Collections; Pubhc Information 
and Publications; Museum Security; and Conservation and Preven- 
tative Care- — ^thus increasing the awareness in the museum com- 
munity of the museum information resources available to them. 
Many of the participants avail themselves of the center's rich 
clearinghouse of museum data. 

The Museum Reference Center continues to keep abreast of 
current literature by expanding its collections and enriching the 
contents of the subject and organization files. Materials are added 



256 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



to the collections from gifts of catalogues and program materials 
from international interns and visiting professionals. 

A new brochure was made available for distribution in 1983. 

W. K. KELLOGG FOUNDATION PROJECT 

In 1982 the W. K. Kellogg Foundation awarded a three-year grant 
to the Office of Museum Programs and the Resident Associate 
Program to expand the educational role of museums in their com- 
munities. The Kellogg Project began its work by selecting thirteen 
museums to participate for three years in all aspects of the project 
and to serve as "flagship" museums in their regions; these mu- 
seums, chosen from 468 applications from fifty states, the District 
of Columbia, and two territories, represented the major disciplines 
and types of museums. 

The Kellogg Project, administered by the Office of Museum 
Programs, will pursue its goals through colloquia, workshops, resi- 
dencies, research, publications, videotapes, and model programs 
at the thirteen museums. The project held its first colloquium, 
"Increasing the Museum's Responsiveness to Cultural Diversity," 
in April 1983 for twenty-six museum directors, trustees, and other 
senior staff, who were addressed by museum professionals and 
other experts, as well as Smithsonian Institution staff. Regional 
workshops for personnel from more than 132 museums in six 
areas of the country were planned, to extend the discussions of 
the colloquium to a wider audience and to develop strategies for 
collaboration among museums and other community educational 
institutions. The residencies and videotapes will follow, and twelve 
more museums are being selected for full participation in 1984. 

A national advisory committee has convened twice in 1983; 
Philip Speiss II serves as coordinator of the project. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

Career counseling for more than 100 people per year, who are 
interested in the museum field or career changes, is a subsidiary 
activity of the Office of Museum Programs, along with the orga- 
nization of national and international conferences. Resource mate- 
rials are compiled, and staff members serve as career and museum 
consultants for university counselors and museum-studies pro- 



Museum Programs I 257 



grams. The omp staff also serve as advisers and consultants to 
other offices and departments of the Smithsonian Institution, such 
as International Activities, Symposia and Seminars, si-ali-aba Law 
Conference, and Programs for the Disabled. More than 100 con- 
sultations were provided on museum practices and organizations 
during 1982, including those to persons from other countries — 
such as the Peoples Republic of China, India, New Zealand, Co- 
lombia, Finland, Romania, Mexico, West Germany, Nigeria, Ghana, 
Tanzania, Belgium, Hungary, Denmark, Australia, Sweden, Indo- 
nesia, Yemen, the German Democratic Republic, and an inspection 
team from the United Nations. 

Staff members of the omp annually serve as speakers at regional 
and national museum conferences, provide consulting services, and 
are actively engaged in international museum activities. They also 
attended professional meetings of the International Council of 
Museums (icom), the American National Metric Conference, the 
Midwest Museums Conference, the icom Conservation Committee, 
the Northeast Museums Conference, the Southeastern Museums 
Conference, the American Association of Museums (aam), the 
American Institute on Conservation, and the New England Mu- 
seums Association. Program manager Jane Glaser serves on the 
board and is the secretary of the icom Committee on Training of 
Personnel and was program chairperson for its annual meeting in 
October. She also serves on the icom Advisory Committee; as an 
aam senior examiner for accreditation and reaccreditation; as chair- 
person of the Institution's committee for planning of the Con- 
servation Training Program at the Smithsonian Support Center 
and of the Audiovisual Advisory Committee. She is the coordinator 
of metric conversion at the Smithsonian, attending the interagency 
meetings for the Institution. An si metric awareness campaign 
was launched with distribution of materials and a meeting was 
held with speakers from both the government and the private 
sector. The omp is also represented on the Smithsonian Institution 
Internship and Conservation Councils. 

Among the activities in 1983 for the omp's program manager 
were presentations to: D.C. Multi-Cultural Program, Native Amer- 
ican Workshop, omp Careers Seminar Series, American Society for 
Training and Development, Museum Careers Seminar for the SI 
Personnel Office, Consultant to Blennerhasset Island Commission, 



258 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Los Angeles Children's Museum, Washington Women's Network, 
OMp/usiA Project group, radio interviews in Los Angeles, Educa- 
tion Committee of icom. Art Table, American Transportation 
Museum Meeting, Older Adults Seminar, International visitors, 
ICOM delegation from Finland, icom Committee on Training, Amer- 
ican University School of Arts Administration, Smithsonian Insti- 
tution interns, and George Washington University classes in mu- 
seum studies. 

Mrs. Glaser represents museums on a Commission for the Social 
Sciences organized by the International Research and Exchange 
Board, which is exploring the possibilities of exchanges of per- 
sonnel, publications, and research with the German Democratic 
Republic. Meetings have been held in the German Democratic 
Republic and the United States. She interviewed applicants for the 
George Washington University's Master of Arts in Teaching 
Program. 

The OMP published and distributed a Survey of Audiovisual 
Programs Produced by the Smithsonian Institution, which listed 
and described all film, video, slide, and filmstrip programs produced 
by units of the Institution for internal use; a new brochure on 
the workshop series; and approximately 2,000 copies of Museum 
Studies Prograjns in the United States and Abroad and approxi- 
mately 500 copies of the Proceedings of the Office of Museum 
Programs' ''Children in Museums" International Symposium. 



Office of the Registrar 

With the baseline inventory project completed and at least an 
initial collections management policy in effect for every Smith- 
sonian bureau, the Institution now faces the need to move from 
implementation to perpetual maintenance. Already having a firmly 
established responsibility for insuring the adequacy of Smithsonian 
collections management policies and procedures, the Office of the 
Registrar has been assigned responsibility for monitoring com- 
pliance as well. 

Among other things, this means insuring that those bureau col- 
lections management policies still not formally approved will be 



Museum Programs I 259 



reviewed for adequacy, revised where necessary, and moved 
through the formal approval routing process expeditiously. Since 
inventory is an integral part of collections management, it means 
also that the office must solicit from the various collecting bureaus 
formal plans and schedules for inventory refinement and recon- 
ciliation and for their next comprehensive physical inventories; 
monitor progress being made against these plans; and report 
periodically to the Secretary and his Executive Committee on 
progress being made. Further, since new developments can be 
expected from time to time in connection with the ever-increasing 
concern about the accountability obligations of museums, it means 
keeping abreast of such developments and seeing to it that Smith- 
sonian policies are revised accordingly. 

The activities of the office during the year, though peaking as a 
result of certain events such as congressional inquiries about acces- 
sioning and deaccessioning policies in the spring and the change- 
over from baseline inventories to inventory maintenance in June, 
nevertheless continued to follow patterns already established. 
Monitoring and reporting on progress in collections inventories, 
reviewing the few bureau collections-management policies still not 
up to standard, processing improved versions of already approved 
policies, and coordinating the affairs of the Registrarial Council 
continued to occupy much of the office's attention. Its annual 
workshop on registration methods and its semiannual workshops 
on computerization for museum collections were presented as 
usual, and its presentation on the formulation of poHcies was 
included again as a regular feature of the workshop on the man- 
agement of collections. 



Smithsonian Institution Archives 

The Smithsonian Institution Archives (sia) is a repository for 
papers of historic value about the Smithsonian and the fields of 
science, art, history, and the humanities. It serves as the official 
memory of the Smithsonian, responsible for physical care and 
intellectual access to the Institution's records and proceedings. The 
Archives' holdings form a valuable resource for scholars working 

260 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



in the history of science and other areas of traditional Smithsonian 
interests. 

In addition to its ongoing selection, preservation, and reference 
activities, three special activities highlighted the year for the 
Archives. It published an updated version of its Guide to the 
Smithsonian Archives. This new edition is one measure of the 
progress of the Archives' program since the last Guide publication 
in 1978. The 431 pages contain an additional 168 collection de- 
scriptions, bringing the total to 572 entries describing nearly six 
thousand cubic feet of research materials. 

The Archives also inaugurated a series of published guides to 
collections in its holdings with the Guide to the Papers of Waldo 
LaSalle Schmitt, by William E. Cox. The Archives will continue 
this occasional series by issuing guides to selected collections of 
special interest or importance. Guides to early twentieth-century 
records of the Secretary of the Institution and to the papers of 
Charles D. Walcott and Charles P. Alexander are now in prepara- 
tion. 

In addition, the Archives began a series of presentations of 
research in progress by historians and others using its holdings. 
Jan Butin Sloan, a Smithsonian Fellow, gave the first presentation 
in August on "Americans at the Naples Zoological Station before 
World War I." In September, Frank N. Schubert spoke on "Gouv- 
erneur Warren and Ferdinand V. Hayden on the Northern Plains 
in 1856 and 1857." Additional talks are scheduled. 

The identification and selection of records of permanent his- 
torical and administrative value is central to the Archives' role as 
the Institution's memory. This process involves not only the pro- 
fessional judgment of the archivist, but also the knowledge of the 
records possessed by the curators, scientists, and administrators 
who create and maintain them. During the past year, the Archives 
continued to work with the staffs of Smithsonian bureaus and 
offices to carry out this appraisal function. While operations con- 
tinued in most major museums and offices, the Archives concen- 
trated its efforts in the National Air and Space Museum, the Hirsh- 
hom Museum and Sculpture Garden, the National Zoological Park, 
the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, the Smithsonian 
Astrophysical Observatory, and the Smithsonian magazine. As a 
result of this emphasis, the Archives is often able to identify 



Museum Programs I 261 



records of transient value which can be destroyed when no longer 
of current use, saving the Institution both space and staff resources 
necessary to manage these records. During 1983 the Archives' 
records management program established disposition schedules 
for the Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center and 
the Office of Personnel Administration, and continued its programs 
for the Office of Accounting and Financial Services, the Office of 
Supply Services, and other Smithsonian offices. 

Once the Archives has identified the permanent records of the 
Institution, it must make provisions for their preservation. In its 
quarters in the Arts and Industries Building, the Archives maintains 
those inactive records that have been transferred to it for safe- 
keeping by other Smithsonian offices. They are kept under con- 
trolled environmental conditions, and when necessary, undergo 
preventive or restorative care. During the past year, the Archives 
continued to receive accessions from most major bureaus and 
offices. Of special note are records of the Office of the Secretary, 
the Assistant Secretary for History and Art, the Assistant Secre- 
tary for Science, the Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs, 
the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the National Zoo- 
logical Park, Contracts Office, Programming and Budget, National 
Museum of American History, National Museum of Natural His- 
tory, the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the 
Smithsonian Institution Libraries, and the Smithsonian Science 
Information Exchange. 

The Archives also collects and preserves papers of significant 
Smithsonian staff members and associated scholars, documenting 
their professional and personal careers. These papers form a valu- 
able supplement to the official records of the Institution, rounding 
out the picture of its activities and its role in the nation and the 
scholarly world. Among some of the more important accessions 
this past year were the papers of George Sprague Myers, Otto 
Mayr, Paul D. Hurd, Jr., George B. Field, and the records of the 
International Union of Directors of Zoological Gardens, as well 
as additions to the papers of S. Dillon Ripley, A. Remington 
Kellogg, and Farouk El-Baz. 

The holdings in the Archives' custody may be of no current use 
to the office or person that created them, but they are continually 
used by researchers investigating topics of historical, scientific, or 



262 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




A photograph of Charles G. Abbot, an early director of the Smithsonian 
Astrophysical Observatory, was found in the papers of Frederick A. Greeley, 
a long-time employee of the observatory, which were recently placed in the 
Smithsonian Archives. Abbot is shown at the Mount Harqua Hala Solar 
Observing Station in Arizona, about 1921. 



popular interest. Among the topics from the Archives' collections 
studied this past year were the origins of the United States Forest 
Service; the architectural history of the Smithsonian's Arts and 
Industries Building; the history of the Research Corporation; the 
scientific accomplishments of the Stansbury expedition to the 
Great Salt Lake, 1848-52; the early career of Spencer F. Baird; 
the history of New Deal archeology; and the careers of Alexander 
Wetmore, Arthur Cleveland Bent, Stanley Paul Young, Vernon 
Orlando Bailey, Paul Bartsch, and William T. Hornaday. 

Previous research using the Archives has contributed to numer- 
ous published works over the past year. They include Ellis L. 
Yochelson, "Walcott's Discovery of Middle Ordovician Verte- 
brates," Earth Sciences History 2 (1983): 66-75; Philip Kopper, 
Volunteer! O Volunteer!: A Salute to the Smithsonian's Unpaid 
Legions (Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983); 
William L. Bird, Jr., "A Suggestion Concerning James Smithson's 
Concept of 'Increase and Diffusion,' " Technology and Culture 
24 (1983): 246-55; Alan E. Leviton and Michele L. Aldrich, "John 
Boardman Trask: Physician-Geologist in California, 1850-1879," 
in Frontiers of Geological Exploration of Western North America, 
edited by Alan E. Leviton, Peter U. Rodda, Ellis L. Yochelson, and 
Michele L. Aldrich (San Francisco : Pacific Division of the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science, 1982); James R. 
Glenn, "De Lancey W. Gill: Photographer for the Bureau of 
American Ethnology," History of Photography 7 (1983): 7-22; 
Helen H. Norton, Robert Boyd, and Eugene S. Hunn, "The Klickitat 
Trail of South-Central Washington: A Reconstruction of Season- 
ally Used Resource Sites," in Prehistoric Places on the Southern 
Northwest Coast, edited by Robert E. Greengo (Seattle: Thomas 
Burke Memorial Museum, 1983); and Margaret W. Rossiter, 
Women Scientists in America: Struggles and Strategies to 1940 
(Baltimore and London: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1982). 

Watercolors from the John Abbot papers were loaned to the 
Madison-Morgan Cultural Center, Madison, Georgia, for an exhibi- 
tion, John Abbot in Georgia: The Vision of a Naturalist Artist. 

The Oral History Program (ohp) continued with interviews of 
Smithsonian administrators and retired exhibits staff. The ohp 
assisted the National Museum of American History's Association 
of Curators in the oral history project on the museum's collecting 



264 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



policy. Work was begun on a narration of films of Smithsonian 
expeditions to Panama in the 1950s. Materials accessioned and 
prepared for research use include interviews with T. Dale Stewart, 
physical anthropologist and former assistant secretary for science, 
and with entomologist W. Donald Duckworth on the history of 
the National Museum of Natural History's Senate of Scientists. 

Three visiting students worked during the year on materials in 
the Archives. Jan Butin Sloan, a Smithsonian Fellow from the 
University of Kansas, spent ten weeks researching the American 
table at the Naples Zoological Station; Joan Brownell, from Mon- 
tana State University, received a ten-week internship to process 
and describe the Archives' exposition records; and Susan Bevel- 
heimer, from Portland State University, began an internship in 
September. 

In 1983 the sia, the National Anthropological Archives, and the 
Archives of American Art conducted the third annual workshop 
for museum archivists. Sponsored by the Office of Museum Pro- 
grams, the workshop was attended by eighteen participants, who 
were provided with information necessary to establish or improve 
archival programs in their respective museums. 



Smithsonian Institution Libraries 

Smithsonian Institution Libraries (sil) embodies and continues a 
tradition of library service provided for in the Foundation Charter 
of 1846. In the mid-1960s Secretary Ripley recognized the Smith- 
sonian's need for orderly, speedy access to information, and orga- 
nized most quasi-independent library units and collections into an 
institution-wide system — "the Smithsonian Institution Libraries" — 
under the leadership of one director. 

The siL, organized on the model common in major North Amer- 
ican universities, effects economies of centralized administration, 
collections processing, and systems planning. In 1983 branches of 
the SIL operated in thirty-five locations, including Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, New York City, the Republic of Panama, and the 
Washington, D.C., area. 

Museum Programs I 265 



To meet growing research needs, a new branch is being estab- 
lished in the Office of Horticulture, and collections serving the 
National Museum of Natural History, the Museum Support Center, 
and the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (stri) moved into 
their own facilities. 

The libraries at the Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port, 
the Freer Gallery of Art, the Joseph Henry Papers, the Hirshhorn 
Museum and Sculpture Garden, and the National Museum of 
American Art/National Portrait Gallery — representing about 20 
percent of the Institution's library expenditures — are not part of 
the siL organizationally, and are discussed elsewhere. However, 
the siL assists these libraries in many ways and devotes approxi- 
mately 5 percent of its budget to their direct support. 

The SIL is organized in three operational divisions: Bibliographic 
Systems, concerned with standard descriptions and automated 
control of all sil collections; Collections Management, responsible 
for collection development policies, budgeting, and selection for 
acquisitions, preservation, and housing of library collections essen- 
tial to Smithsonian work; and Research Services, charged with 
direct, personal assistance to and interpretation for the scholarly 
clientele of the libraries. Each of these divisions reports to a man- 
ager who is a member of the sil executive staff. The sil, led by 
the director and associate director, is also assisted by staff for 
systems planning and administration, exhibitions and publications, 
and resource development. 

RESOURCES 

The SIL is financed chiefly from the federal budget granted by 
Congress; in fiscal year 1983, these federal monies were about 
$3,700,000 or 93 percent of sil funding. The remaining 7 percent, 
or $287,000, came from Smithsonian Institution trust funds and 
other sources. The sil budgets represent 2 percent of all Smith- 
sonian expenditures, federal and trust. 

During fiscal year 1983, the sil also obtained two grants: $15,000 
from the Atherton Seidell Endowment Fund to test direct electronic 
interlibrary-loan ordering of research materials; $10,000 from the 
Dibner Fund, Inc., Norwalk, Connecticut, for the publication of a 
catalogue describing scientific manuscripts in the Dibner collection. 



266 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



The siL was authorized 97.4 work years in 1983. In addition to 
federally funded positions, the sil has 8.5 employees supported by 
Smithsonian trust funds. Strenuous recruitment and increased in- 
volvement in minority recruiting resulted in improved staffing in 
both the branches and the centralized services. 

That the sil manages to provide a basic level of service and to 
continue special projects is due in no small measure to the dedica- 
tion and constant, hard work of sil's employees and of more than 
seventy volunteers. 

The libraries had one research associate and three interns in 
1983 and participated in the ceta and Stay-in-School employment 
projects. 

The executive staff is planning a major study of what the Insti- 
tution's programs will require during the next two decades and 
how best to meet those requirements. The Secretary of the Insti- 
tution approved a visiting committee with funding to assist library 
staff in preparing this evaluation and recommendations for future 
programs. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BIBLIOGRAPHIC 
INFORMATION SYSTEM 

The ongoing publication explosipn, coupled with ever-rising costs, 
especially for personnel, has become the major budgetary problem 
for administrators of research libraries and information centers. 
Sil administrators concluded that in order to continue at least the 
present level of service at no increase in the rate of rise of cost, it 
would be imperative to have an automated system for as many 
SIL processes as feasible — from generating a book request to pro- 
cessing and circulating the item. As planning for automation 
progressed, it became obvious that such a system would be useful 
throughout the Smithsonian. Thus, the sil's "Total System" project 
grew into the Smithsonian Institution Bibliographic Information 
System (sibis). Because sibis was intended to serve a wide range 
of Smithsonian units, experts from around the Institution were 
consulted during the requirements review and were involved in 
evaluating proposals from vendors. During fiscal year 1983, Con- 
gress approved funding of $275,000 in each of fiscal years 1983 
and 1984 for sibis; tbe Institution has committed up to $500,000 
in trust funds for a processor, to be repaid from usage charges. 



Museum Programs I 267 



BIBLIOGRAPHIC SYSTEMS 

This division provides bibliographic services for the entire sil 
system; it was reorganized in 1981 to move more rapidly toward 
extensive automation. 

The expansion of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries Cata- 
logue, a. computer-output-microfiche (com) alphabetic guide by 
author, title, and subject — comprising all materials catalogued by 
the libraries in a machine-readable format — is a major accomplishr 
ment. By the end of 1983 the sil's holdings acquired from 
1965 to 1983, a total of 220,000 titles, will be available on micro- 
fiche. The next section of the conversion will deal with older 
records (catalogued in other 'systems) which, when completed, will 
bring the majority of the sil's records under fully automated 
control. This retrospective conversion is a key element in the 
ongoing automation of library services. 

The siL continues to contribute to and receive cataloguing data 
cooperatively through the Online Computer Library Center (oclc), 
a national bibliographic service based in Columbus, Ohio. Use is 
also made of the Research Libraries Group's utility, the Research 
Libraries Information Network (rlin), in Stanford, California. 

A major project to catalogue manuscripts in the Smithsonian 
libraries began this year. Staff of the Original Indexing Unit de- 
veloped policies and procedures in accordance with national stan- 
dards, then through the support of the Dibner Fund, Inc., added 
specialized staff to catalogue and enter into national databases the 
manuscripts in the Dibner donation. Support was received from 
the Atherton Seidell Endowment Fund to publish these records 
as a guide to the Dibner manuscripts. 

Trade-literature indexing and creation of a machine-readable 
record continued throughout the year. With the assistance of 
volunteers and of staff who worked overtime, another portion of 
the sil's 225,000-piece collection has been organized and made 
available to researchers. 

Despite reductions and turnover in personnel, the Bibliographic 
Systems Division has maintained high productivity while also 
responding to special demands resulting from the libraries' syste- 
matic weeding program, which resulted in the withdrawal of thou- 
sands of volumes and records. Retrospective conversion of older 
records into machine-readable format presented quality-control 



268 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



problems that were resolved through lengthy reprocessing; the 
serials component of conversion required record changes through- 
out the siL. When the Natural History Branch was established in 
its own location, Bibliographic Systems staff shifted thousands of 
records and made the necessary notations and labels. 

A comprehensive microfilming policy was developed, an inven- 
tory of official Smithsonian publications completed, and the Trans- 
lations Program mailing list compiled. 

Upgrading security throughout the sil took the time of members 
of Bibliographic Systems staff, who inventoried special collections 
holdings in process and established a specially secured processing 
area for all rare materials, including the high volume manuscript 
cataloguing project. 



COLLECTIONS MANAGEMENT 

This division of the libraries was created to guide the development 
and maintenance of all collections. 

The weeding and inventory program, begun in 1982, continued 
with special attention to collections housed at the sil Research 
Annex (silra) at 1111 North Capitol Street. Silra was cleaned 
and rearranged in an orderly manner, improving services and ac- 
cess to materials there, which in turn resulted in enhanced delivery 
service to the Mall. Nonetheless, the available space is at the 
saturation point, which leaves many collections housed in unsatis- 
factory conditions. 

The weeding process disclosed a significant number of scarce, 
valuable, and important works, which are being placed in appro- 
priate special collections for reasons of preservation and security. 

The Turnbull library, Wellington, New Zealand, donated plates 
from John Abbot's Insects of Georgia, among many other notable 
gifts. 

Collections manager Jack Goodwin lectured to a number of 
audiences on the history of the Smithsonian and its libraries. 
Included was a presentation at the meeting of the National Gene- 
alogical Society. 

The collections-management policy, which received Smithsonian 
approval in 1982, is constantly being fine-tuned with the assistance 
of appropriate Smithsonian research staff. 



Museum Programs I 269 



Because of budgetary restrictions, limited funds were available 
in 1983: only $1,300 was alloted in the trust budget for Special 
Collections purchases. Thus, collections-management staff had to 
screen requests more rigorously, to insure that basic research 
materials were still acquired. 

The siL Book Conservation Laboratory (bcl), a model of its type 
and part of the Collections Management Division, continued the 
restoration of physically endangered and valuable scholarly mate- 
rials. The addition of a leaf caster and an ultrasonic encapsulator 
has helped the staff keep up with major conservation problems. In 
June Johannes Hyltoft, chief conservator, made an emergency trip 
to Panama to deal with a widespead fungal outbreak at the stri 
branch. With the assistance of local volunteers, about 1,000 vol- 
umes were treated to prevent further infestation. 

Starting in May, bcl staff undertook an extensive security-mark- 
ing program to protect valuable items in the sil collections. At- 
mospheric conditions in library branches and exhibition areas were 
monitored and the sil Disaster Preparedness Program was main- 
tained. An in-house minor-repair training project, which began 
this year, made use of volunteers. 

RESEARCH SERVICES 

The Research Services division provides reference assistance to 
scholarly clientele and other Smithsonian staff. These services are 
made available through the various geographically dispersed sil 
branch libraries, as well as in the sil Central Reference and Loan 
Services, located on the Mall in Washington. 

In 1983 four branches were more formally established. The 
Museum Support Center library at Silver Hill was opened in 
September. This library, which uses compact shelving to double 
the storage capacity, was the first sil branch planned for advanced 
electronic services (on-line database retrieval, on-line collection 
management, and telefacsimile transmission). The Natural History 
branch was separately established with a full-time reference staff, 
on-line reference services, a reading room, and a circulation area. 
Additional space was provided for the Mineral Sciences section 
to allow for collection growth. In April the stri library moved into 
its new building, the first separate structure for sil. Designed for 
energy conservation and flexibility, this facility has 6,000 feet of 



270 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



floor space that will eventually accommodate 40,000 volumes. An 
active acquisitions plan began to upgrade the collections signifi- 
cantly. The Office of Horticulture and the sil cooperated in final 
planning for a branch library to be located in the Arts and Indus- 
tries Building. 

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum library branch responded to new 
challenges as an active participant in the CHM/Parsons program. 
And Katharine Martinez, formerly of the Avery Architectural 
Library, Columbia University, was appointed chief librarian of the 
Cooper-Hewitt branch in August. 

Four new library technicians joined the staff of the Natural 
History branch library and its subsections, and half-time techni- 
cians were assigned to the branches at the Smithsonian Astro- 
physical Observatory, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, Special Collec- 
tions, and the Museum of African Art. 

An institution-wide loan policy, the result of a year's study, 
has been adopted. The policy enables the sil to maintain better 
control of resources to enhance access by scholars. 

Interlibrary-loan borrowing has grown as a result of greater 
knowledge of available resources that on-line reference service 
has brought to the sil's clientele. Moreover, loans have increased, 
because of the demand by scholars elsewhere, who can now learn 
from bibliographic databases what materials are held by the sil. 
To facilitate these loans, the sil employs traditional loan request 
forms, electronic mail requests (via the oclc network), and tele- 
facsimile transmissions. To improve speed of delivery, the sil 
sends staff members on a regular schedule to borrow from and 
return materials to the Library of Congress, the National Agricul- 
tural Library, and the U.S. Geological Survey Library. In 1983 
interlibrary-loan traffic was 24,185 items borrowed, 4,000 loaned; 
these statistics indicate a borrow/loan ratio of six to one. Over 
30 percent of these borrowings were from the Library of Congress. 
The SIL has, of course, regular and heavy intra-Smithsonian loan 
traffic. 

A significant and growing characteristic of research librarian- 
ship is the shift from book-based to machine-assisted reference 
services. By the end of 1983, ten sil reference librarians had trained 
or upgraded their skills on more than 200 commercially avail- 
able on-line databases. A committee of representatives of major 



Museum Programs I 271 



branches was formed to plan for expanded computer reference. In 
addition to on-line reference services in citation, abstract, diction- 
ary, and directory files, a large part of the staff in most units of 
the siL regularly use the strictly bibliographic databases (oclc, 
rlin). 

Branch librarians continued to meet the research needs of cura- 
tors, scholars, and the general public through traditional means as 
well as on-line services. Ten bibliographies on aspects of musc- 
ology and museum administration were compiled at the Museum 
Reference Center. Among these was Disaster Planning in Cultural 
Institutions. Library News for Zoos and Aquariums, written and 
edited at the National Zoo branch, is now being distributed to a 
mailing list at 160 locations. Guides to eleven branch libraries and 
their services were published last winter. 

PUBLIC PROGRAMS 

The SIL supports a number of scholarly outreach programs. Dur- 
ing 1983 these included seminars, lectures, exhibitions, and publi- 
cations. 

In 1981 the sil began an occasional series of special events to 
illuminate significant sil collections, the history of books and li- 
braries, and important developments in information technology. A 
committee, formed in March 1983, has instituted a regular yearly 
schedule of seminars and lectures on these topics. 

In October, Madehne Henderson, formerly of the National 
Bureau of Standards, spoke on the importance of "Library Stan- 
dards." Philip J. Weimerskirch, assistant director, Burndy Library, 
Norwalk, Connecticut, gave an illustrated lecture on "Naturalists 
and the Beginnings of Lithography in America" in March. In 
April, "Trade Literature: Preserving American Enterprise" was the 
topic of a panel whose participants included librarians and cura- 
tors from the National Museum of American History and from the 
Eleutherian Mills Library. 

Exhibitions included: Trade Literature, Clothing and Allied In- 
dustries (December 1982-March 1983) featuring items from the 
SIL Trade Literature Collection, designed and mounted by the col- 
lections manager and funded by a grant from the Smithsonian 
Institution Women's Committee; Lithography in Natural Science 



272 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



321 TO 320 SIXTH AVENUE, NEW YORK. 



MISSES' AND CHILDREN'S SUITS. 




Ho. a. Plaid Salt, r«d, blae and brown mlxtnru, ■htmd front, foil 
•bonldar*. Iliilabed with ribbon bom. 4 jn.,tR.4t; ijn., la.lO; (yn, t).lo: 
a Tn., t> nh 10 rrv. tio.ts. 

No. M. PTlno«M Salt, brown, bine and itamet utin, yoko, ooUar and onA 
of Ulntb to matob. 4 yn., t7.». « yi«.. t&4G: 8 jn , ta.lO; 10 yra., tt.TO. 

No. IB. CaahnMre "Mother Hubbard" I>r«M, la blae and garnet, yoke 
and mlb of lUk pluilL !yn., tt»; 4yn., t<S; tyn., %7M; 8 yn., tg.U; 
10 yn.. 18.75. 

No. U. Oaehmer* Salt, In famet and green, collar, onSa, reat and raffle 
trimmed wttti relret. 4 yn., t?.ao-, yn , $7.80; 8 yn.. I8.4S: 10 yn., tS-IO: 
Ityn.. K70. 



No. ST. Caahmere Dreat, In garnet, brown and oardinal, •birred baok, 
paffed ihouldera, trinuned bandjomely with ribbon bowo. 4 yn., $6.80; a 
yn., $7.M-. « yn . $7.00; 8 yn.. 18.16; 10 yn., $8.76. 

No. 88. Prlnoeae Suit, of garnet or brown ploab, full Pedora reet of lattn 
to matob. 4 yra., $15.00; « yn , $1«.»; 6 yn., $17.60; 10 yn., $18.76. 

No. 69. Caahmere Suit, to blae, green and garnet, dnpery, yeet, ooUar 
and cuffi of relvet to matob. 18 yn.. $< 86; 14 yn., $7 50; 16 yra., $8.16. 

No 40. Red. Blue and Brown Mixed Plaid Suit, dmpery. Jacket, collar 
and oaff> trimmed witli Telret. M yn. IlI.dB; 14 yn., $11.86; 16 yn., $l8.i«. 



This is from the 1983 exhibition Trade Literature: Clothing and Allied Indus- 
tries, featuring merchandiser's catalogues from the Smithsonian Institution 
Libraries' unique collection of trade catalogues. 



(March-April 1983); and History of Pharmacy, from the Fifteenth 
Century to the Nineteenth Century (September-October 1983). 

In addition to publishing the Smithsonian Institution Libraries 
Catalogue, exhibition catalogues, and library guides, the sil con- 
tinued to manage the translation and publication program based on 
excess foreign currency (pl 480). Crayfishes of Mexico (Crustacea: 
Decapoda), by Alejandro Villalobos, was translated and printed as 
part of this program. The Directory of Aerospace Resources 
(Smithsonian Institution Libraries Research guide 1, Smithsonian 
Institution Press, 1983); Information Sources and Services in As- 
tronomy Astrophysics and Related Space Sciences (Smithsonian 
Institution Libraries Research guide 2, Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1983); and the Aerospace Periodical Index 1973-1982 (G. K. 
Hall, 1983) are on this year's list. The sil also published a monthly 
newsletter distributed to its staff, the Institution generally, and 
nationally to the library community. 

GENERAL ADMINISTRATION 

Shipping and delivery services improved with the drafting of a 
formal delivery policy, the installation of a regular supply window, 
and a reorganization of administrative services into an Administra- 
tive support unit and a Shipping, Receiving, and Supply unit. 

No further renovation has yet been done in the Central Refer- 
ence area, but the Natural History branch space was considerably 
improved. 



Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service 

International negotiation dominated the year, highlighted in June 
1983 by the approval of the Czech-United States cultural exchange 
agreement making possible The Precious Legacy: Judaic Treasures 
from the Czechoslovak State Collections. This exhibition's opening 
in November 1983 marked the first showing in the United States 
of objects from this intriguing and important collection. Negotia- 
tions during the fiscal year included final arrangements with Sum- 
mit Books for distribution of the book produced by the Smith- 
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sites), with Philip 



274 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Morris Incorporated as national corporate sponsor. A press con- 
ference held in September to announce the project resulted in 
extensive print and broadcasting coverage nationwide. 

Three additional major corporate grants for exhibition develop- 
ment were also received: from Time Incorporated for Hollywood: 
Legend and Reality; from Champion International for Yesterday's 
Tomorrows: Past Visions of the American Future; and from Mobil 
Oil Corporation for The Art of Cameroon. Each of these exhibi- 
tions has required considerable administrative staff time and effort 
to make the grants possible, even though the tours will not begin 
until 1984-86. 

Exhibitions whose tours began in fiscal year 1983 covered the 
broad range of interests that sites has carefully cultivated — from 
fine art to anthropology, from natural history to architecture. Sev- 
eral major anthropological exhibitions opened, notably Ban Chiang: 
Discovery of a Lost Bronze Age, which sites organized with the 
University Museum, University of Pennsylvania, and Inua: Spirit 
World of the Bering Sea Eskimo, a collaboration with the National 
Museum of Natural History. Aymara Weavings: Ceremonial Tex- 
tiles of Colonial and 19th Century Bolivia, supported by numerous 
private contributions, opened at the Textile Museum in Wash- 
ington. 

Two art exhibitions from the Hirshhorn collections began their 
tours: Aspects of Color: Works on Paper from the Hirshhorn Mu- 
seum and Sculpture Garden and Raphael Soyer: Sixty-five Years 
of Printmaking. 

With the Corcoran Gallery of Art, sites presented John Singer 
Sargent: Drawings from the Corcoran Gallery of Art. 

In addition to those already mentioned, the international activi- 
ties at sites were highlighted by the East Asian tour of American 
Porcelain, an exhibition organized by the Renwick Gallery, made 
possible with the collaboration of the U.S. Information Agency. 
Jamaican Art: 1922-1982 opened at the Inter- American Develop- 
ment Bank, marking the first major survey of that country's paint- 
ing and sculpture to tour the United States. 

Black studies exhibitions for the year included Out of Africa, 
from the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, and Building a New 
World: Black Labor Photographs and Black Wings: The American 
Black in Aviation, organized with the National Air and Space 



Museum Programs I 275 




More than 700,000 people visited the SITES' exhibition American Impression- 
ism during its European tour of Paris, East Berlin, Vienna, Bucharest, and 
Sofia. This was the scene in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in the Austrian 
capital. (Photograph by Georg Mikes) 



Museum. In addition, sites inaugurated a new exhibition format — 
the paper panel exhibition. The first in this new series of illus- 
trated panels printed on paper for purchase was Black Women: 
Achievements Against the Odds, which received funding support 
from the Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates and 
from the Smithsonian's Office of Equal Opportunity. Colorful Kite 
Tales was completed in fiscal year 1983, as well as most of the 
research, design, and production for the third paper panel exhibi- 
tion: Getting the Picture: The Growth of Television in America. 
Sites' education department produced several innovative "hands- 
on" kits this year to accompany new exhibitions. The one for 
Kings, Heroes, and Lovers included rubber stamps for designing a 
figurative rug, a small loom for demonstrating weaving techniques, 
and supplementary classroom materials. A poster/card-making kit 
was developed with funding support from Hallmark Cards to ac- 
company The Seasonal Trade: Holiday Gift and Greeting Cards. 
Brochures and other interpretative materials were produced for 
nearly every new exhibition. 

TOURS FOR PERIOD OCTOBER 1, 1982, THROUGH 
SEPTEMBER 30, 1983 

Number of bookings 422 

Number of states served 

(including Washington, D.C.) 44 

Estimated audience 7 million 

Exhibitions listed in last Update 

(catalogue of sites exhibitions) 116 

Exhibitions produced for tour during the year 27 

EXHIBITIONS BEGINNING TOURS OCTOBER 1, 1982, THROUGH 
SEPTEMBER 30, 1983 

American Porcelain 

Aspects of Color: Works on Paper from the Hirshhorn Museum 
and Sculpture Garden 

Assignment Aviation: Paintings from the Stuart M. Speiser Photo- 
Realist Collection 

Aymara Weavings: Ceremonial Textiles of Colonial and 19th Cen- 
tury Bolivia 



Museum Programs I 277 



Ban Chiang: Discovery of a Lost Bronze Age 

Black Wings: The American Black in Aviation 

Building a New World: Black Labor Photographs 

A Celebration of Birds: Louis Agassiz Fuertes and His Art 

Franklin Delano Roosevelt: The Intimate Presidency 

Iceland: Fire of the Arctic 

Images of China: East and Wesi 

Inua: Spirit World of the Bering Sea Eskimo 

Jamaican Art: 1922-1982 

John Singer Sargent: Drawings from the Corcoran Gallery of Art 

Kings, Heroes, and Lovers: Pictorial Rugs from the Tribes and 

Villages of Iran 
The Magic of Neon 
Marine Mammals of the World 
Noritake Art Deco Porcelains 
Out of Africa 

Raphael Soyer: Sixty-five Years of Printmaking 
The Seasonal Trade: Holiday Gift and Greeting Cards 
Spectacular Vernacular: Traditional Desert Architecture from West 

Africa and Southeast Asia 
Studied Beauty: Portraits by Cecil Beaton 
Symbols of Faith 
Upland Game Birds of North America 

PAPER PANEL EXHIBITIONS PRODUCED FOR PURCHASE 

Black Women: Achievements Against the Odds 
Colorful Kite Tales 



278 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Smithsonian Year . ip8} 
PUBLIC SERVICE 



RALPH C. RINZLER, 
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR PUBLIC SERVICE 



Office of Elementary and Secondary Education 

A firm belief in the power of museum objects as educational re- 
sources is the guiding principle behind the activities and programs 
of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education (oese). With 
the conviction that it is equally important for students to learn to 
use works of art, natural history specimens, historical artifacts, 
and other museum objects as research tools, as it is for them to 
learn to use words and numbers, oese continues to serve the Smith- 
sonian's education offices while working to meet a solid commit- 
ment to foster the educational uses of museums in the Washing- 
ton, D.C., area and throughout the nation. 

For several years oese has offered a number of programs and 
publications to help teachers use museums and other community 
resources with their students. Oese continues to offer these services, 
proven successful by those who use them. Let's Go to the Smith- 
sonian, a newsletter, informs local teachers of the ever-growing 
variety of Smithsonian services available to teachers and students. 
Multiple copies are sent free-of-charge to approximately 1,200 
schools in the Washington, D.C., area. 

For teachers nationally. Art to Zoo — a free, six-page publication 
to promote the use of community resources — reached approximate- 
ly 55,000 classrooms. The Museum Idea — a slide/tape curriculum 
kit — helps fifth- and sixth-graders learn about what museums 
are and what the students can do themselves to make a classroom 



279 



museum. Of Kayaks and Ulus — a new curriculum kit for high 
school students — teaches young people how to use primary and 
secondary research materials while at the same time learning about 
the culture of the Bering Sea Eskimo of one hundred years ago. 
These materials — all giving students the opportunity for first-hand 
learning — have proven very popular. As one reader wrote of the 
May 1983 issue of Art to Zoo on kites, "As a kiter and person 
who has introduced the experience as well as kite building to 
numerous teachers and students in our schools, I found the issue 
very informative, extremely well-written and at the same time 
easily understood." 

Special events during the year deepen teachers' understanding 
of how museums can educate. In December 1983 for example, the 
sixth annual Holiday Reception for Teachers introduced more than 
sixty participants to the history of Hannukah traditions as well 
as to Renaissance Christmas customs. In May 1983 the Ninth 
Annual Teachers' Day brought more than seventy teachers and 
Smithsonian staff together for activities at the National Air and 
Space Museum. 

In July and August, oese offered another series of summer 
workshops for teachers, providing professional training in teaching 
using museum objects. Over 300 local teachers chose from such 
week-long courses as "Flight: Engineered by Nature and by Man," 
"American Cultural History through Art," and "Insects in the 
Classroom." A three-credit graduate course on "Using Museums 
to Teach Writing" was again offered to teachers from across the 
nation. Offered in cooperation with the University of Virginia, 
this seminar brought teachers from as far away as Washington 
State and California to the Smithsonian to develop a variety of 
writing assignments that they could use with their own students. 
As a final project, the teachers were required to develop curricu- 
lum units drawing on the resources of their own communities. 

Comments from teachers attest to the value of oese's workshops, 
both local and national; as one participant wrote, the national 
seminar "was beyond my expectations because it inspired and en- 
riched me as a person first and as a teacher next. It was a 'moun- 
taintop experience' and I feel its value will grow ever more as I 
return home and apply it to my own community, children and 
school. ... A whole new dimension has been opened up to me. 



280 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



and I feel truly grateful to have been a part of such a memorable 
experience." 

To assist school teachers and museum educators, oese has estab- 
lished a Regional Workshop Program, providing Smithsonian sup- 
port and assistance to communities throughout the nation. At the 
invitation of a community's museums, oese will set up and help 
coordinate a one-day special event that will bring the community's 
teachers and museum people together, enabling them to find ways 
to work with each other productively long after the original pro- 
gram is over. Now in the first of its two pilot years, the program 
has already evoked enthusiastic support in the various communi- 
ties where special events will be held before the end of 1984: 
Tidewater Virginia; New Orleans, Louisiana; Oakland, California; 
and Charleston, South Carolina. It is estimated that the program 
will reach 2,000 teachers in fiscal year 1984. 

Oese also continued its progress in making Smithsonian pro- 
grams accessible to disabled visitors. The office maintained such 
services as providing sign-language and oral interpreters for special 
events and regular program offerings as well as offering sign- 
language and "disability awareness" sessions to Smithsonian staff 
and volunteers. 

In addition, the program published The Smithsonian in a Few 
Words, a guidebook to the Smithsonian museums, designed to 
meet the needs of mentally retarded visitors. A newly published 
curriculum kit. Museums as Storytellers, will help teachers of deaf 
youngsters improve their students' language skills. Another project 
is a package of materials designed to train docents — here at the 
Smithsonian and in other museums nationally — on how to teach 
disabled persons effectively in a museum setting. The package con- 
sists of a manual and a videotape for national distribution. 

During the course of 1983, oese expanded its programs that 
bring young people to the Institution. In January a pilot Career 
Awareness Program (known as the cap) began a series of pro- 
grams to introduce minority young people to career opportunities 
at the Smithsonian. In this early pilot stage, the cap worked with 
students from Ballou High School in the National Air and Space 
Museum. In the museum, the students participated in a number 
of activities, including behind-the-scenes tours, career workshops, 
and special projects. The cap is directed to ninth-graders, because 



Public Service I 281 



most young people of this grade level have not yet locked them- 
selves into the kinds of curriculum decisions that ultimately deter- 
mine career options and choices. During the 1983-84 school year, 
the CAP will be introduced in three District of Columbia high 
schools; over the next several years, it will gradually be expanded 
to include all District of Columbia public school ninth-graders. 

"Exploring the Smithsonian" — a program for seventh- and 
eighth-grade teachers and students in the District of Columbia 
Public Schools — brought more than 3,500 young people to Smith- 
sonian museums, an increase of 75 percent over 1982's program. 
In addition, oese's high school summer internship program was 
expanded in 1983 to include students from throughout the conti- 
nental United States. The interns worked under the guidance of 
curatorial and technical 'staff members in various parts of the 
Institution, discovering new directions for collegiate study and 
for possible careers. As one intern wrote, the program "has 
strengthened my ambitions to become a paleoanthropologist. I be- 
lieve that the contacts I have made will help me throughout col- 
lege and in my career. The experience has shown me a side of my 
future career that I never knew before." 

Through participation in national and regional conferences and 
workshops, oese has helped to expand the scope and understand- 
ing of the professional museum educator. Staff members have also 
helped to plan and teach seminars on museum/school relations 
and on museum interpretation offered by the Smithsonian's Office 
of Museum Programs. 



Office of Folklife Programs 

Most Americans would agree that the richness of the nation's cul- 
ture lies in the impressive diversity of its people and in their crea- 
tive responses to historical conditions. Research, presentation, and 
preservation of this cultural wealth is the goal of the Office of 
Folklife Programs. The office produces live performances by the 
keepers of tradition, museum exhibitions of traditional artifacts. 



282 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



and documentary studies of particular technological, social, and 
aesthetic processes. Members of the Office of Folklife Programs 
also engage in teaching and research activities on a cooperative 
basis in Washington, D.C., area academic and governmental insti- 
tutions. Taken as a whole, the activities of the program are di- 
rected not only to the representation of folk culture in national 
cultural institutions but also to the continuing survival of folk 
traditions and their practitioners. 

FESTIVAL OF AMERICAN FOLKLIFE 

The Office of Folkhfe Programs planned, supervised, researched, 
and produced the seventeenth annual Festival of American Folk- 
life in fiscal year 1983. Again, the festival was held on its original 
site on the National Mall outside the museums of American His- 
tory and Natural History. It took place over a two-week period, 
June 23-27 and June 30-July 4, 1983. New Jersey folklife, French 
and French-American traditional culture, the occupational folkUfe 
of the aviation industry, and the National Endowment for the 
Arts' Second Annual National Heritage Program were all featured 
at this festival. 

In celebration of New Jersey's richly varied traditional cultures, 
100 representatives of the state's agricultural, maritime, occupa- 
tional and ethnic communities brought to the Mall their music, 
dance, crafts, foods, and lore. Gospel and Spanish bagpipe music, 
decoy carving, boat building, oyster shucking, and silk weaving 
were among the traditions from New Jersey that were presented. 

The French/ French- American Program was held on the occasion 
of the 200th anniversary of the Treaty of Paris. Twenty-five musi- 
cians, dancers, and craftworkers from France were joined by thirty 
counterparts from French-American communities in the United 
States and Canada. Among the traditions included were regional 
French music and dance, Cajun music, French-Canadian fiddling, 
French lacemaking and stonecarving, and French and French- 
American food demonstrations. 

This was also the year of the 200th anniversary of manned 
flight, and the Folklife of Flight Program commemorated the 1783 
ascent of the Montgolfier hot air balloon with a program on the 
occupational folklife of flight. Pilots, flight attendants, and mainte- 

Public Service I 283 




Visitors to the 1983 Festival of American Folklife watch Emile Boublin, a 
farmer and basketmaker from the province of Anjou, France, and his wife, 
Marie-Louise, demonstrate with two friends a traditional contredance. 



nance workers from the aviation industry — including pioneer barn- 
stormers — shared their stories, demonstrated their skills, and 
talked with the public about their work and their lives. 

A series of concerts and crafts demonstrations in the National 
Heritage Program honored the recipients of the Second Annual 
National Heritage Fellowships. The fellowships were awarded at 
a special concert and ceremony at the festival to sixteen traditional 
musicians and craftspersons (selected by the National Endowment 
for the Arts) who have made outstanding contributions to the cul- 
ture of the United States. Appalachian music and storytelling. 
Black Sacred Harp singing, Afro-Puerto Rican music and dance, 
banjo and dulcimer making, and Chitimacha Indian basket weav- 
ing were a few of the vibrant presentations on the festival pro- 
gram. In addition, an exhibition highlighting the artistic accom- 
plishments of the 1983 fellowship recipients was mounted in the 
National Museum of American History. The National Heritage 
Program and Exhibition were organized in collaboration with the 
National Endowment for the Arts and the National Museum of 
American History. 

The festival was cosponsored by the National Park Service, and 
the Smithsonian received funding support from the Music Per- 
formance Trust Funds, the government of France, Air France, 
Continental Telecom, Inc., the John and Clara Higgins Foundation, 
and New Jersey Festival '83 Inc., a nonprofit corporation estab- 
lished by the State of New Jersey to fund New Jersey's participa- 
tion in the festival. 

SPECIAL PROJECTS 

Throughout fiscal year 1982, the staff of the Office of Folklife 
Programs worked in collaboration with the staff of the National 
Museum of American Art to plan and install at the Renwick 
Gallery the exhibition Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual. 
(March 17, 1982-July 11, 1983). It contained more than 600 
objects drawn from ten Smithsonian museums and filled all seven 
of the Renwick's galleries. The objects were chosen to demonstrate 
the ways in which different societies celebrate the important cycles 
and milestones in the lives of their people. To augment the exhi- 
bition in fiscal year 1983, the staff of the Office of Folklife Pro- 



Public Service I 285 



grams planned and produced a monthly "living celebration" as 
well as a monthly lecture and film. The "living celebrations" in- 
cluded, among others, an Afro-Puerto Rican saint's day celebra- 
tion, Latin American Day of the Dead observances, a Polish- 
American Christmas celebration, Vietnamese New Year festivities, 
and the ceremonies marking a woman's rites of passage among the 
Ga people of Ghana. 

Research continued under the supervision of the Office of Folk- 
life Programs for an exhibition and book/catalogue on the sur- 
viving traditional potteries in the southern and southeastern United 
States. The exhibition, which was planned in conjunction with 
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, opened 
in November 1983 in Tennessee before going on tour. 

Also, planning has reached an advanced stage for an exhibition 
from India depicting the cycle of life, with 1,500 objects and forty 
traditional craftsmen and performing artists. The exhibition will 
be mounted in the Evans Gallery of the National Museum of 
Natural History in June 1985. 

On January 8, 1983, the Office of Folklife Programs and the 
Folklore Society of Greater Washington cosponsored a concert to 
mark the ninetieth birthday of Libba Cotton, the noted black 
country blues singer. She performed with Mike Seeger at the Baird 
Auditorium of the National Museum of Natural History. 

RESEARCH 

Research, writing, and production have continued on six mono- 
graphs and accompanying films included in the Smithsonian Folk- 
life Studies. This series was established in 1978 to document, 
through monographs and films, folkways still practiced (or re- 
created through memory) in a variety of traditional cultures. Draw- 
ing on more than a decade of research accruing from fieldwork 
conducted for the office's annual Festival of American Folklife, the 
studies are unique in that each consists of a monograph and a 
film, conceived to complement each other. In fiscal year 1983, two 
projects were completed: Jugtown: Pottery Tradition in Change, 
a documentary film of a North Carolina pottery, and The Ojibwa 
Dance Drum: Its History and Construction, a monograph written 
to accompany the film The Drummaker and published by the 
Smithsonian Institution Press in April 1983. 



286 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



A documentary film on old-time medicine shows was com- 
pleted during fiscal year 1983. Entitled Free Show Tonite, the film 
had its genesis in a program organized for the 1981 Festival of 
American Folklife and was produced by this office in collaboration 
with the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources. The 
film documents the re-creation of a traveling medicine show, with 
performers who participated in the last of these shows in the 1930s 
and 1940s. 

Research began for an exhibition on cultural stereotypes, pro- 
posed by this office for the Evans Gallery of the National Museum 
of Natural History in 1987* 

In February 1983, Peter Seitel, then acting director of the Office 
of Folklife Programs, joined Ralph Rinzler, then director of the 
Office of Public Service, on a research trip to India, Pakistan, and 
Egypt to investigate museological, managerial, and governmental 
institutions involved in the preservation and promotion of tradi- 
tional culture. (Seitel was subsequently named director of the 
Folklife office and Rinzler was named Assistant Secretary for 
Public Service.) The trip was undertaken with a view toward 
defining programming goals for the proposed International Center 
of the Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures under 
construction in the Quadrangle. 

VISITING SCHOLARS 

Five visiting scholars, supported by funds from the Office of 
Fellowships and Grants, used the Office of Folklife Programs' 
archives as well as the scholarly resources of the staff this year. 
Willie Collins (Ph.D. candidate. University of California, Los 
Angeles) worked on a project to identify icons of musical instru- 
ments and musicians in African-American culture. Michael Licht 
(Ph.D. candidate. University of Texas, Austin) conducted disser- 
tation research on the role of the harmonica in traditional American 
music. Robert McCarl (Ph.D., Memorial University of Newfound- 
land) completed an ethnography of urban fire-fighters. William 
Nye (Ph.D., Tufts University) conducted research for a definitive 
biography on jazz musician Charlie Parker. Nicholas Schidlovsky 
(Ph.D., Princeton University) studied the music of Russian Old 
Believers and the relationship between a type of musical notation 

Public Service I 287 



used for this genre of music and the oral tradition associated 
with it. 



Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars 

In anticipation of the Orwellian Year, the office's major activity 
in 1983 was preparation for the Smithsonian's eighth international 
symposium, "The Road After 1984: High Technology and Human 
Freedom/' which took place December 7-10, 1983. The symposium 
of necessity touched on 1984's warnings of Big Brother, totalitarian 
techniques, mind control, doublespeak, and other of the novel's 
forebodings. Its thrust, however, centered on the technological 
advances giving birth to burgeoning new industries and the infor- 
mation explosion made possible by the acceleration in communica- 
tions systems. 

Organized in cooperation with Wake Forest University on the 
occasion of its 150th anniversary and with the Center for the 
Humanities, University of Southern California, the meetings probed 
the overall social and political dynamics now at work in the world 
and attempted to identify both the dangers and blessings inherent 
in our new "high tech" society. An official activity of the World 
Communications Year, the symposium will produce a book based 
on its collected essays, working sessions, and other activities, to be 
published by the Smithsonian Institution Press. 

The volume based on the Institution's seventh international 
symposium. How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey, edited 
by Smithsonian scholar Donald J. Ortner, was published by the 
Smithsonian Institution Press in early 1983. Shortly thereafter the 
Press also published The Muses Flee Hitler: Cultural Transfer and 
Adaptation, 1930-1945, coedited by Carla M. Borden, associate 
director of Symposia and Seminars. This book is based on two 
colloquia organized by the office during the Einstein Centennial. 
The Joseph H. Hazen Foundation, which had supported the original 
meetings, also donated approximately 150 copies of the volume to 
university and municipal libraries, thereby extending this "increase 
and diffusion of knowledge" to a wide range of students, research- 
ers, and interested citizens. 



288 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Coeditors Carla Borden, associate director of the Office of Symposia and 
Seminars, and Jarrell Jackman, projects administrator, Santa Barbara Trust 
for Historic Preservation, pose with their book. The Muses Flee Hitler: Cul- 
tural Transfer and Adaptation, 1930-1945, published by the Smithsonian 
Institution Press. Below: Wilton Dillon, Symposia and Seminars director, 
enjoys a leisurely moment in Caracas, where he attended activities marking 
the centenary of Charles Darwin's death. 




. O 




Another patron of long standing, Barrick W. Groom, provided 
the oifice with its first permanent endowment through an agree- 
ment calHng for a series of payments, beginning with $100,000 in 
1984, supporting the Smithsonian symposia and seminar program 
as now estabUshed. Groom, who Hves in Upperville, Virginia, has 
served as adviser to the office for a number of years, contributing 
generously of his time, money, and energies to its extensive 
activities. 

On September 2, 1983, the office arranged for Japanese ethnog- 
rapher Yasuhiro Omori to present a seminar and film on "Gypsy 
Nomadism and Religion in France." Dr. Omori and his wife have 
documented the growth of Protestant fundamentalism among 
European, especially French, gypsies and the larger World Gypsy 
Evangelical Movement begun thirty years ago. 

Representing the Smithsonian, the office joined with the Na- 
tional Committee for the Bicentennial of the Treaty of Paris and 
American University in planning a two-day observance of the 
formal ending of the Revolutionary War. On September 29-30, 
1983, eight British and American scholars discussed the historic 
peacemaking and peacekeeping of two hundred years ago under 
the general title "The Work of Peace," words used by Benjamin 
Franklin on July 5, 1785, to describe the shared purpose of the 
newly independent colonies and their former mother country. 

The office continued to provide educational outreach linking 
the humanities and sciences through interdisciplinary activities 
bringing together senior scholars, intermediate specialists, and 
their publics. The director participated in the week-long com- 
memoration of the centenary of the death of Charles Darwin, in 
Caracas, Venezuela, in November 1982. He was accompanied by 
Kjell Sandved, Smithsonian photographer extraordinaire, who gave 
a special presentation on flora and fauna as observed by Darwin 
in South America to a large audience in Caracas's new Sala 
Plenaria, Parque Central. Additional cultural exchanges with Vene- 
zuelan nationals were planned for marking the 200th anniversary 
of the birth of Simon Bolivar and the accomplishments of Alex- 
ander von Humboldt. 

The office's constituency for providing resource services expands 
yearly; the newly appointed advisory Commemorations Committee 

290 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



provides direction and enlargement of total Sn^ithsonian contribu- 
tions in these significant activities. 



Office of Telecommunications 

The Office of Telecommunications (otc) extends the Institution's 
reach by bringing the museums to the people through films, radio, 
and television programs. During 1983 the otc broke new ground 
toward reaching greater audiences through the broadcast of series 
programs which explored the diversity of Smithsonian activities. 
The three-part thrust of this effort involved radio, video, and the 
development of the first major pbs series devoted to the Smith- 
sonian. 

In the radio arena, the award-winning weekly, half-hour series 
"Radio Smithsonian" burst forth with a new line-up of subscribing 
stations, including the major market cities of New York, Denver, 
and Miami in this country, as well as the Armed Forces Radio and 
Television Service and the Voice of America abroad. This boosted 
the national potential listening audience to 46 million people. Since 
its beginning in 1969 as the Institution's original effort to use the 
electronic media as a way to share Smithsonian activities, "Radio 
Smithsonian" has become the model for subsequent series pro- 
grams. Its continued development augers well thanks in part to a 
$19,500 grant awarded by the lames Smithson Society to support 
a special miniseries on American folklore and mythology. 

A companion to "Radio Smithsonian" is "Smithsonian Galaxy," 
an award-winning series of 2 V2 -minute features specifically de- 
signed for commercial radio stations. This extremely popular 
series continued to be heard over 230 stations in forty-seven states, 
Canada, the Virgin Islands, and the Mariana Islands. It was also 
broadcast on both the United States and the Canadian Armed 
Forces Radio Networks. Since stations broadcasting the series 
range from all-news to so-called "middle-of-the-road" music sta- 
tions, the series reaches a tremendously diverse audience. 

On the video side, "Here at the Smithsonian . . .," a series of 
two-minute features for television, continued its successful per- 
formance, growing from an experimental project in 1982 into a 

Public Service I 291 



series which now fills vital programming needs in expanded TV 
news programs and magazine shows. In November 1982 the series 
was honored with a Silver Award from the International Film and 
TV Festival of New York. This year, twenty features were aired 
over sixty commercial and public TV stations nationwide, and pro- 
duction for next year's edition will begin in January 1984. 

The OTC pursued a new direction in 1983 with a pilot for a 
possible video series focusing on the art of biography and the 
relationship between a biographer and his subject. Developed in 
connection with the National Portrait Gallery's emphasis on biog- 
raphy, the half-hour pilot is now completed. Suitable for pbs or 
cable television, the program features Pulitzer Prize-winning biog- 
rapher Edmund Morris and National Portrait Gallery historian 
Marc Pachter discussing Morris's work. The Rise of Theodore 
Roosevelt. A funding proposal for a thirteen-part series of half- 
hour biography programs was submitted to the Corporation for 
Public Broadcasting's Annenberg Project for development of col- 
lege-level telecourses. 

In the third thrust, 1983 was the key production year for 
"Smithsonian World," the first major pbs series devoted to the 
vast cultural and scientific resources of the Institution. Principal 
shooting was completed in the United States, the Vatican, Panama, 
and Kenya, and noted writer/historian David McCullough was 
selected to host the new series. Each of the series' seven one-hour 
television programs explores a different theme from the many 
angles that scholars, scientists, artists, and other experts use to 
reveal all its facets. Funded by a grant from the McDonnell Foun- 
dation, "Smithsonian World" has the potential to reach the largest 
audience ever to view a television documentary. Coproduced by 
WETA-TV and the Smithsonian, the series will be broadcast in 1984 
on a monthly schedule. 

Another primary focus for the otc is the continued production 
of quality films for nationwide distribution to pes stations, schools, 
libraries, and civic organizations. The film American Picture Pal- 
aces, produced in conjunction with a Cooper-Hewitt exhibition, 
is a vivid documentary of the golden age of movie theaters in the 
1920s and 30s. Following its premiere in Washington, D.C., on 
April 22, 1983, the film received numerous awards, including a 
Bronze Award from the Houston International Film Festival of 



292 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



the Americas, a Red Ribbon Award from the American Film 
Festival, and a Silver Cindy Award from the Information Film 
Producers of America. 

Extensive planning and major filming in Paris and London were 
completed in September 1983 for a half-hour film. Peace Be Still, 
which commemorates the signing of the 1783 Treaty of Paris — an 
event that formally ended the American Revolution. This film 
follows on the heels of a successful companion film, Yorktown, 
which celebrates the final battle of the Revolution. With the assis- 
tance of the National Committee for the Bicentennial of the Treaty 
of Paris, this federally funded film will emphasize not only the 
events surrounding America's first peace agreement, but also the 
friendship that exists between the United States and Great Britain. 

With documentary film producer Julian Krainin, the otc is pre- 
paring two films on the Quadrangle project. The first, intended 
for fundraising and informational purposes, is now complete. The 
second, aiming at a broader audience, will document the actual 
construction of the new museum complex and discuss the impor- 
tance of the collections to be exhibited there. 

To strengthen the coordination and effectiveness of film and 
video activities throughout the Institution, the Motion Picture Unit 
of the Office of Exhibits Central and the Video Production Unit 
of the Office of Museum Programs were consolidated under the 
Office of Telecommunications. 



Smithsonian Institution Press 

In 1982 the Smithsonian Institution Press broadened its publishing 
role when it reorganized into three major divisions in order to 
accommodate the Smithsonian Collection of Recordings, formerly 
a part of the Division of Performing Arts. The Smithsonian Collec- 
tion, which has become the Recordings Division of the Press, 
produces and markets high-quality recordings of both modern 
and classical musical works illustrating research in musical history, 
developed and sponsored by Smithsonian staff members and, in 
many cases, performed on instruments in the Institution's extensive 
collections. 



Public Service I 293 



Together with its book-pubHshing responsibiHties, the Press 
produces ar\nually some 300 pubHcations and several recordings 
relating directly to Smithsonian collections and research. 

The Smithsonian has been publishing books virtually since its 
foundation. Joseph Henry, the first Secretary of the Institution, 
translated James Smithson's founding charge for the diffusion of 
knowledge into a publication program that would give "an account 
of the new discoveries in science" and provide "separate treatises 
on subjects of general interest." The first publication — a research 
monograph. Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, by 
E. C. Squires and E. H. Davis — appeared in 1848. Since then, the 
Institution has published a continuous flow of books and research 
papers by Smithsonian scholars and their colleagues across the 
nation. 



UNIVERSITY PRESS DIVISION 

Many of the works published by the University Press Division, one 
of the three components of the Press, are written by Smithsonian 
staff members, and consist of scientific monographs, exhibition 
catalogues, brochures, pamphlets, and guide books, as well as 
Smithsonian Year, the annual report of the Institution. This divis- 
ion of the Press also functions in the traditional manner of a 
university press, and annually publishes twenty-five to thirty 
books on scholarly subjects related to Smithsonian interests, which 
are sold through regular book trade channels in the United States 
and abroad. 

Recent publications of the University Press Division include: 
Stagecoach East: Stagecoach Days in the East from the Colonial 
Period to the Civil War; Beauty and the Beasts: On Museums, 
Art, the Law, and the Market; Finding Birds in the National 
Capital Area; The Muses Flee Hitler; Joseph Stella: The Hirshhorn 
Museum and Sculpture Garden Collection; Blessed are the Peace- 
makers: A Commemoration of the 200th Anniversary of the Treaty 
of Paris; "Geology and Paleontology of the Lee Creek Mine, North 
Carolina, Volume I," Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology, 
53; "Prodromus of the Fossil Avifauna of the Hawaiian Islands," 
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, 365; The Ecology of a 
Tropical Forest; and Hummingbirds of North America. 



294 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



DIRECT MAIL DIVISION 

Established as an independent Smithsonian unit in 1977, the Direct 
Mail Division was integrated administratively into the Smithsonian 
Institution Press in September 1981. The division continues to be 
basically autonomous in acquisition and development of manu- 
scripts and in the editing and design of its books, which are color- 
fully illustrated and written for a popular audience on topics 
related to Smithsonian collections and research. They are published 
under the imprint Smithsonian Books and are sold predominantly 
by mail — for the most part to members of the Smithsonian Asso- 
ciates. 

Recent books published by this division of the Press are The 
Best of the Smithsonian, Thread of Life, and Treasures of the 
Smithsonian. 

RECORDINGS DIVISION 

The Smithsonian Collection of Recordings was transferred to the 
Press in October 1982, bringing with it a substantial backlist of 
recordings — all accompanied by extensive liner essays and photo- 
graphs — issued over the past ten years under the sponsorship of 
the Division of Performing Arts. These include The Smithsonian 
Collection of Classic Jazz; acclaimed recordings of J. S. Bach's 
Brandenburg Concerti; and Handel's Messiah. 

A recent agreement with Intersound has broadened record dis- 
tribution albums and cassettes to all major retail outlets in the 
United States. 

The division's concentration remains in direct-mail marketing, 
largely to Smithsonian Associates. Its latest effort is the six-LP 
album Big Band Jazz: From the Beginnings to the Fifties, selected 
and annotated by Gunther Schuller (noted composer, conductor, 
and author of Early Jazz) and Martin Williams (who selected and 
annotated the Classic Jazz album). 

Awards 

Awards to the Smithsonian Collection have included National 
Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences "Grammy" nominations 
for Classic Country Music (Best Historical Album), Duke Ellington 
1941 (Best Album Notes), and An Experiment in Modern Music: 



Public Service I 295 



Paul Whiteman at Aeolian Hall (Best Historical Album and Best 
Album Notes). 

The National Association of Government Communicators has 
consistently recognized the Press's editors, to whom it has given 
more than twenty Blue Pencil Awards in recent years for titles 
such as Chinese Art of the Warring States Period, Inua: Spirit 
World of the Bering Sea Eskimo, and Eastern Chipmunks: Secrets 
of Their Solitary Lives. Design and production excellence has been 
frequently acknowledged as well, most recently by the Association 
of American University Presses for Chinese Art of the Warring 
States Period, and by the Art Directors Club of Metropolitan 
Washington. 

A complete list of Smithsonian Institution Press publications 
may be found in Appendix 5. 



Smithsonian Magazine 

Smithsonian magazine had a good year in spite of a generally 
poor national economy. Among the year's editorial highlights was 
a sixteen-page story on the Quadrangle and the Sackler collection. 
The story, which included a wraparound cover and a four-page 
gatefold showing the new museums, was the centerpiece of the 
magazine's Quadrangle fundraising effort. Another particularly 
significant project was the two-part series on the beginning and 
the end of the Universe. One of the most ambitious works the 
magazine has undertaken, the series encompassed thirty-two pages, 
and included an eight-page gatefold in which remarkable photo- 
graphs traced the history of the Universe from the moment of 
the Big Bang until today. 

Magazine advertising and circulation were adversely affected 
by the recession: 1983 advertising pages were down 6.2 percent; 
overall circulation down by 2.5 percent. Not only were these 
reductions relatively minor but also advertising and circulation 
increased in the last few months of 1983, compared with 1982. 

In production and distribution areas, the recession had a favor- 
able effect. Since the general inflation rate was lower, all costs 
related to the cost-of-living index were lower than projected. 

296 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Paper costs, the greatest single cost constituent, actually decreased 
and postal charges were stable. 

On the editorial side, the magazine lost two members of the 
Board of Editors by retirement: Edwards Park, a charter member of 
the staff or, as we prefer to say, one of the Mayflower group, and 
Richard L. Williams. Ted will continue to write his popular column, 
"Around the Mall and beyond," and Dick will make occasional 
contributions. Coming to the Board of Editors were Timothy Foote, 
a former senior editor of Time magazine, and Jim Doherty, former 
executive editor of National Wildlife magazine. 



Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center 

This was a year of challenging new horizons for the Visitor Infor- 
mation and Associates' Reception Center (viarc). Service units 
were increased and realigned to accommodate new programs, while 
added duties broadened and enhanced the scope of established 
activities. For the first time, a comprehensive overview of the full 
range of the center's responsibilities was published (in om 829). 

An Information Outreach Coordinator was engaged to pursue 
the center's newest objectives: development of a previsit education 
program; accelerated promotion of on-campus National Associate 
membership sales; and the design and implementation of an 
exterior graphic information system for Smithsonian visitors. Sig- 
nificant progress was realized in each project area. Liaison was 
established with the local, national, and international tour and 
travel industry; production started on a video cassette to be used 
as an orientation device at conventions, conferences, and tourist 
sites; a concentrated National Associate membership campaign 
was initiated in the Museum Shops, which resulted in a dramatic 
increase in membership sales; and the George Washington Univer- 
sity Department of Urban and Regional Planning agreed to work 
with viARC during the 1983-84 academic year to develop the basic 
elements of the graphic information system for Smithsonian 
visitors. 

These outreach efforts, coupled with two older programs, the 



Public Service I 297 



Mobile Information Program and Group Information Services, 
form the center's new Information Outreach Unit. 

Some 100,000 abbreviated guides were distributed from four 
mobile information units operated on Mall museum walkways 
between Memorial and Labor Days. The time-saving assistance 
provided to summer visitors by the Mobile Unit staff was received 
with much enthusiasm and appreciation. 

Four hundred fifty groups attended the half-hour slide/lecture 
orientation to the Institution presented by the Group Information 
Services' volunteer lecturers. Groups represented ranged from 
elementary school students to Fulbright Scholars and included 
Smithsonian interns and new Institution employees at prescheduled 
programs, while Associates and the general public attended daily 
walk-in sessions. During the peak of summer visitation, morning 
orientations, timed to end as the museums opened at 10 a.m., 
filled the needs of some 1,800 "early bird" visitors. A notable first 
was the series of interpretative programs developed and presented 
by Castle docents in conjunction with a special exhibition in the 
Smithsonian Institution Building, Painting as a Pastime: The Paint- 
ings of Winston S. Churchill. In addition, these docents conducted 
140 tours of the Castle for Associates as part of the National 
Associates' "Washington Anytime Weekend" travel package. 

The Seven-Day Information Service Unit, consisting of the Tele- 
phone Information Program and Museum Information Desk Pro- 
gram, continued to provide for the public a primary avenue of 
personal contact with the Institution. Incoming calls recorded by 
various segments of the Telephone Information Program totaled 
approximately 320,000, with the most "live" responses to calls 
in one day, in excess of 1,100, occurring on December 27 as a 
result of special activities at the National Air and Space Museum 
and the National Museum of American History. Responsibility 
for producing Dial-A-Museum and Dial-A-Phenomenon, twenty- 
four hour recorded telephone information, was transferred from 
the Office of Public Affairs. The Museum Information Desk Pro- 
gram, with some 400 volunteer information specialists, logged in 
46,000 hours of service, staffing fourteen desks daily in eight 
museums. Information volunteers responded to numerous requests 
from bureaus for special assistance, including active participation 
in the pass system designed for crowd control at the American 



298 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



History museum's M*A*S*H exhibition and information services 
at Air and Space evening events. 

Another major viarc component, the Pubhc Inquiry Mail Service 
(piMs), the central research, response, and referral point for the 
Institution's unsolicited public mail, handled in excess of 37,000 
letters. Telephone requests for previsit information materials in- 
creased outgoing mail by 30 percent. Close cooperation with several 
curatorial and professional offices resulted in the production of a 
record number of 130 new and updated fact sheets, bibliographies, 
and preprinted responses, all of which are utilized to give prompt, 
helpful answers to correspondents. New responsibilities included 
piMs's designation as the clearinghouse for Quadrangle-related 
correspondence and the assumption of the files of the Information 
Leaflet series from the Office of Public Affairs. In an effort to 
determine the nature, volume, and handling of public inquiries, 
the second annual Institution-wide mail survey was devised. Pims 
also continued production of a quarterly master list of merchandise 
for auxiliary sales units, and, in response to requests from prospec- 
tive visitors, mailed more than 20,000 copies of its booklet Plan- 
ning Your Smithsonian Visit. 

The fourth principal viarc constituent, the Staff/Volunteer Ser- 
vices Unit (svs), prepared to initiate a new program, the Intern 
Information and Registration Service, while continuing to strength- 
en its established areas: the Independent Volunteer Placement 
Service (ivps) and the Special Magazine Files. When fully staffed. 
Intern Services will provide the Institution with a central registry 
and an automated source of data on all Smithsonian interns and 
internships. 

Eight hundred forty-two behind-the-scenes volunteers were 
registered with the ivps in fiscal year 1983, an increase of 13 
percent over 1982. Four hundred seventy-two were added, 47 
percent of whom were recruited, interviewed, and referred to the 
professional staff in response to a record number of requests for 
assistance. In addition to providing support on curatorial and 
technical projects, volunteer staff aides assisted on such special 
projects as processing a large volume of mail generated by the 
proposed deer hunt at the National Zoological Park's Front Royal 
facility and the preparation of historic Bolivian textiles for the 
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. Enrollment 



Public Service I 299 



in the Volunteer Receptionist Program doubled, and in their first 
full year of activity, volunteer escort attaches accommodated the 
itineraries and needs of government and museum officials from 
more than fifteen countries. 

Institution-wide volunteer involvement is documented annually 
through a svs-conducted survey. In fiscal year 1982, 4,786 volun- 
teers contributed 516,521 hours to the Smithsonian and in fiscal 
year 1983, 4,219 individuals donated 459,296 hours. 

Functioning as the central fulfillment office for all reduced-rate 
National Associate memberships, the svs Special Magazine Files 
processed 4,210 National Associate Employee/Volunteer member- 
ships and 907 records on the Courtesy Mailing List. 



300 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Smithsonian Year « 198} 
ADMINISTRATION 



Essential to the effective performance of the Institution's research, 
collections management, and public programs are the administra- 
tive, technical, and other central support services which, for the 
most part, work behind the scenes. These organization units in- 
clude accounting and financial services, contracts, equal oppor- 
tunity, facilities services, grants and risk management, information 
resource management, management analysis, personnel adminis- 
tration, printing and photographic services, programming and 
budget, supply service, and travel services. Exclusive of the ex- 
penses associated with the maintenance, operation, and protection 
of the Smithsonian's many buildings and natural areas, and the 
costs of utility, telephone, and postage services, the costs of these 
central support services are controlled tightly and amount to only 
about 6 percent of the Institution's total operating expenditures. 

Special areas of emphasis over the past year included revising 
the contents and format of the Five-Year Prospectus, the Smith- 
sonian's planning document; improving budget procedures; plan- 
ning for and implementing Institution-wide information systems; 
strengthening museum and other security; completing the con- 
struction of the Museum Support Center; and awarding a contract 
and starting construction of the Quadrangle. 

The International Exchange Service continued to serve as a 
transshipment point for books and journals being sent by about 
200 United States organizations to foreign institutions and for 
similar materials coming to institutions in this country from 
abroad. With the completion of the transfer of responsibility for 
exchanging government publications to the Library of Congress 
and the U.S. Government Printing Office, the work of the Exchange 



301 



extends only to the handling of materials originating in the private 
sector. In fiscal year 1982, the program was transferred to the 
Administrative area for review of its current and future operations. 



Administrative and Support Activities 

JOHN F. JAMESON, ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR ADMINISTRATION 

At its January 24, 1983, meeting the Board of Regents approved 
the Institution's Five Year Prospectus, FY 1984-1988 with a further 
projection past 1988 for longer-range goals and objectives. In addi- 
tion to describing directions in research, education, and other pub- 
lic service activities, the document called attention to plans for im- 
proving information handling, security, and maintenance of col- 
lections and facilities which constitute the Smithsonian's major 
resources. This planning effort involves staff in all areas and serves 
to highlight priorities, to sustain action to realize aspirations, and 
to provide a unified overview of accomplishments and plans to 
interested persons and organizations. Work started on the next 
cycle of preparation, resulting in a draft prospectus of fiscal year 
1985-89 submitted for Regents review at the September 19, 1983, 
meeting. This draft incorporated a number of format changes 
aimed at emphasizing important programs and projects and making 
the document more interesting, as by the inclusion of photographs. 
The Office of Programming and Budget continued its efforts to 
improve the understanding of federal and trust budget policies and 
procedures within the Institution and to promote the development 
of more effective budget information and justifications, with re- 
sultant enhanced communications with the Office of Management 
and Budget and the Congress. The office presented the third 
Budget Procedures Workshop in October 1982, attended by ap- 
proximately sixty staff members from throughout the Institution; 
furthermore, a draft version of a Smithsonian budget procedures 
handbook was developed, with additional development and revi- 
sion of the draft document to continue in fiscal year 1984. The 
office worked with the Office of Management and Budget (omb) 

302 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



to initiate two changes geared to providing more efficient and 
accurate communication of budget data: (1) the office is participat- 
ing in a project sponsored by omb to enter the Institution's federal 
budget schedules directly into omb's computer database system; 
and (2) the office revised the format of the omb budget justification 
in order to relate the omb document more easily with the congres- 
sional budget justification. 

Other highlights include the development of a budget formula- 
tion framework, in cooperation with the Office of Information 
Resource Management, to determine the Institution's automation 
needs in fiscal year 1985; and selection of Jon E. Yellin, director 
of the office since October 1976, as a recipient of one of the first 
James E. Webb Fellowships, established last year in honor of the 
distinguishd former administrator of the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration and Regent Emeritus of the Smithsonian. 

During 1983 the new Office of Information Resource Manage- 
ment (oirm) focused on planning for Smithsonian-wide informa- 
tion systems and on providing management with an overview of 
existing information activity. It issued a long-range plan for the 
development of computer resources at the Smithsonian which 
emphasized efficient management information systems and the 
enhancement of collections information databases and research 
resources. 

Oirm played an important role in advancing several large-scale, 
integrated software systems being acquired by the Institution. A 
system for handling bibliographic data from the libraries, archives, 
photographic collections, reprint files, and research bibliographies 
in the Institution was selected after a year of review by more than 
fifty members of the Smithsonian staff. The system, which will 
initially have more than one hundred terminals connected directly 
to it, will be implemented in 1984. 

Because the existing local area data network connecting ter- 
minals throughout the Mall will be saturated within a few years, 
oirm planned a new broadband network which will employ catv 
cabling to permit exchange of data and video images throughout 
the Mall and to distant Smithsonian sites. The network will be 
installed in segments, beginning in 1984. 

In order to take advantage of the information collected during 
the inventory of Smithsonian holdings conducted over the past 



Administration I 303 



five years, and to relieve pressures for additional staff to handle 
museum registration, loan, exhibit tracking, and research activities, 
oiRM and museum staffs began planning in the summer of 1983 
for an Institution-wide collections information system. The plan- 
ning effort, which is expected to last a full year, will culminate 
late in 1984 with the selection of software to be shared by those 
functions requiring collections information. By making collections- 
based information systems compatible throughout the Institution, 
the system will assist scholars and the public to make cross-bureau 
and interdisciplinary searches. It is also expected that it will pro- 
vide collections managers with greater capabilities than the Insti- 
tution could otherwise afford to provide. 

In addition to its planning function, oirm continued to provide 
support and enhancements to the many automated information 
systems in place throughout the Institution. Although it still op- 
erates a central computer facility and manages the Institution's 
major databases, oirm is helping Smithsonian staff select and 
implement micro-computer and office-automation systems, and 
stand-alone devices ranging from scientific-data-gathering and 
analysis computers to intelligent cash registers. One major decen- 
tralized system for which oirm provided technical support in 1983 
was the Institution-wide museum security system. 

Highlights for the Office of Facilities Services included comple- 
tion of the final phase of construction of the Museum Support 
Center in March 1983, and the award of a contract to Blake Con- 
struction Company in June 1983, for construction of the Smith- 
sonian Quadrangle. Actual construction on the Quadrangle began 
during August 1983, and is expected to be completed in early 
1986. Other activity during the year under the direction of the 
Office of Design and Construction included major exterior restora- 
tion as well as roof replacement of the Arts and Industries Build- 
ing; continuation of the Renwick Gallery facade restoration; and 
replacement of major heating, ventilating, and air conditioning 
equipment at the National Museum of American History, where 
major expansion of the Museum Shops is also underway. 

Major activity in the Office of Plant Services included the addi- 
tion of mechanical, electrical, and fire, smoke, and heat detector 
systems to the Computerized Preventive Maintenance Program for 
the Museum Support Center, the Chesapeake Bay Center for 



304 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Environmental Studies (now part of the Smithsonian Environmen- 
tal Research Center), and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. The Com- 
puterized Equipment Monitoring System, which analyzes the op- 
eration of various types of mechanical equipment in major Smith- 
sonian museums, was also extended to the Museum Support 
Center. During the year, tighter controls in the classification of 
Institutional mail resulted in an estimated savings of 10 percent in 
postal costs. Efforts to reduce usage in long-distance telephone 
calls were equally successful, as evidenced by usage reductions of 
about 15 percent projected for the year. Savings in postal and 
telephone costs will help offset expected rate increases in both 
areas in the next year. 

In the Office of Protection Services, significant progress was 
made toward the development of a comprehensive occupational 
health program for employees. A new medical officer was ap- 
pointed on a full-time basis and improvements in the quality of 
health services available to the staff are underway. Work contin- 
ued on the implementation of fire-protection master plans and on 
a major upgrade of security devices in Smithsonian facilities, as 
well as on the development and installation of an advanced elec- 
tronic security system geared specifically to museum applications. 
The first portion of the security system is expected to be operat- 
ing at the Museum Support Center in November 1983. The Smith- 
sonian's guard force continued its effective service to the visiting 
public and to the security of buildings and collections. 

Progress continues on the Institution's phased program to im- 
prove energy efficiency through the Renovation and Restoration 
of Buildings account. Comprehensive energy audits have now been 
completed at the Hirshhorn, Air and Space, Natural History, Amer- 
ican History, Arts and Industries, American Arts and Portrait 
Gallery buildings, and an energy audit by Smithsonian engineers 
is now in progress at the Renwick Gallery. Smithsonian staff mem- 
bers continue to participate in energy conservation measures in 
museums and galleries. 

Among other administrative accomplishments, the Office of 
Printing and Photographic Services made substantial progress 
toward the elimination of a very large quantity of hazardous cel- 
lulose nitrate negatives from photographic collections. This project 
is expected to be completed in about two more years. Equal oppor- 



Administration I 305 



tunity efforts are having some success, with improvements in the 
representation of minority persons and women in professional jobs 
and in the upper grades. There has also been steady improvement 
in program and facility accessibility for disabled persons. 

Opportunities for training and career development for minority 
students and scholars have been greatly expanded, and there has 
been concerted action to develop working relationships with Wash- 
ington, D.C., universities and with the historically black colleges 
and universities. Under the auspices of the Office of Fellowships 
and Grants, many internship appointments and faculty fellowships 
are being made primarily from these schools. The Office of Ele- 
mentary and Secondary Education's new Career Awareness Pro- 
gram for high school students has been met with great enthusiasm 
by the District of Columbia PubHc Schools. In addition, there have 
been special actions by the Office of Equal Opportunity to provide 
minority and women's groups and organizations with information, 
assistance, and exhibitions. Goals for procurement from small and 
minority businesses were met. 



Financial Management Activities 

CHRISTIAN C. HOHENLOHE, TREASURER 

Continued improvements were made during the year to the Institu- 
tion's financial management system, resulting in more efficient 
procedures, tighter controls, enhanced communications, and fuller 
utilization of available resources. Working with the internal and 
independent auditors and pursuant to the oversight of the Audit 
and Review Committee of the Board of Regents, the Treasurer's 
office made efforts to enhance the full public accountability for all 
Institutional funds. 

Seminars and training sessions continued to be conducted by the 
Office of Accounting and Financial Services and the Office of 
Grants and Risk Management on accounting procedures, fiscal 
administration, business practices, and risk management considera- 

306 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



tions; these programs are designed to enhance staff understanding 
of the financial management system at all levels of the Institution. 
Further contributing to streamlining fiscal procedures was the 
establishment during the year of two additional accounting service 
units, satellites of the central accounting office, which provide local 
assistance to the bureau in processing financial documents and 
advising on procedures. Emphasis has also been placed on improv- 
ing financial reporting and analysis capability. 

Additional steps were taken during the year to improve cash- 
management controls. More timely concentration and investment 
of cash generated from nonappropriated trust fund activities, has 
resulted from the modernized banking system initiated in fiscal 
year 1982 and completed in 1983. In addition, a new invoice and 
receiving report control system was developed, which has enabled 
full utilization of discounts offered by vendors. 

In the areas of risk management and insurance, a complete re- 
view of all insured risks and coverages resulted in the consolidation 
of many policies, the elimination of both possible gaps and over- 
lapping coverage, and the streamlining of administrative tasks. 
Risk-management studies were conducted in a variety of areas, 
including auxiliary activities and collections management; actions 
to reduce risks included the initiation of defensive driving courses 
for Smithsonian drivers. Considerable effort was also directed to 
increasing awareness of staff throughout the Institution, as well as 
in the wider museum community, of the importance of early iden- 
tification and control of risks in all aspects of museum operations. 

Several auxiliary activities operate under the direction of the 
Business Management Office, including the Museum Shops, Mail 
Order Division, Concessions, Food Services, Parking, Belmont 
Conference Center, and Product Licensing. These activities offer 
the public a diverse range of services and enhance the educational 
experiences of the visitor through sale of reproductions and other 
products closely related to the Institution's collections and activi- 
ties. The sale of the Belmont Conference Center to the American 
Chemical Society, and the majority of the center's surrounding 
land to the State of Maryland, was concluded during the year. 
Under its new management, Belmont will continue to be operated 
as a conference center, and the land has become part of the 
Patapsco State Park. 



Administration I 307 



Smithsonian Institution Women's Council Activities 

BETTY BEUCK, CHAIRPERSON 

During the past year the Women's Council continued its efforts to 
inform, enlighten, and educate the employees of the Smithsonian 
as to their rights and opportunities. The council was invited to 
give a presentation of its activities to the Secretary's Executive 
Committee, which led to the production of a written history of the 
council. 

The council sponsored a seminar on income-tax preparation, 
which was a follow-up on a series of three workshops last fall on 
end-of-year income-tax procedures. In the spring, the council pre- 
sented a series of three training seminars on career goals and 
upward mobility. The 4-5TAR newsletter continued its bimonthly 
coverage of current employment-related issues, highlighted by a 
two-volume issue on equal oportunity at the Smithsonian. Wom- 
en's Week, which has become an annual event, focused on the 
theme of "Feeling Good At Any Age" and included, along with 
seminars and performances on various aspects of aging, a day- 
long health fair cosponsored by the Smithsonian Health Units. 

A proposal for a retirement benefits package to honor long-term 
Smithsonian employees was submitted by the Women's Council to 
the Employees Benefits Committee for review. In addition, the 
council presented a proposal to the Women's Committee of the 
Smithsonian Associates for research and funding of a pilot child- 
care program for employees' children. Efforts continued to locate 
appropriate space for the establishment of a child-care center. 



308 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Smithsonian Year • ip8} 



MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT 



JAMES MCK. SYMINGTON, 
DIRECTOR 



Office of Development 

The funding campaign for the Center for African, Near Eastern, 
and Asian Cuhures in the Quadrangle has continued to be the 
principal concern of the office. Secretary Ripley and the assistant 
secretary for Museuni Programs visited a number of countries in 
the Middle East to inform their governments and selected corpora- 
tions of the project and to seek support; the state of Bahrain has 
already responded with a leadership gift toward construction. In 
the United States, efforts to secure the $37.5 million needed to 
match an equal amount of federal appropriations have proceeded 
well, to the point that attention is also being directed now toward 
securing support for programs for the new center, as well as for 
construction. 

Many gifts have been received from foundations, corporations, 
and individuals in this country, including more than $2 million 
from members of the National Board of the Smithsonian Associ- 
ates. Most notable were a pledge of $3 million from Mrs. Enid 
Haupt for the international garden which will cover the below- 
grade portion of the structure and serve to introduce visitors to 
the cultural riches below, and a grant of $1 million from the Pew 
Memorial Trust for the new Educational Center. 

While the Quadrangle campaign did progress well this year, 
the current situation in the philanthropic world has affected the 
Smithsonian's efforts to obtain private support for the multiplicity 



309 



of exhibitions, research, and educational projects of the bureaus. 
The economic and social policies of the administration, together 
with the drastic effects of the recession, have caused many cor- 
porations to focus their philanthropic activities upon their local 
communities, with particular concern for welfare programs for the 
unemployed; the result in many cases has been a diminution of 
support for national cultural and educational organizations. Never- 
theless, a number of Smithsonian programs have attracted signifi- 
cant support, including a grant of $1 million from the W. Alton 
Jones Foundation to the Tropical Research Institute for research 
on ways to counteract the loss of tropical forests, and support from 
Champion International, American Telephone and Telegraph, and 
Guerlain, Inc., for major exhibitions at the National Museum of 
American History (organized by sites), the Freer, and the Portrait 
Gallery, respectively. 

The office was pleased to add a new member in 1983, Eileen 
White, who is serving as development officer at the Cooper-Hewitt 
Museum and who, among other tasks, is planning for a funding 
campaign there. In order to respond further to the situation in the 
philanthropic marketplace, two additional staff members will join 
the Office of Development in fiscal year 1984. 



National Board of the Smithsonian Associates 

This board, under the leadership of its new chairman, W. L. Hadley 
Griffin, continues its interest in the Institution and most especially, 
in the Associate programs and the Center for African, Near East- 
ern, and Asian Cultures. Board support of the Quadrangle has 
been exemplary, with thirty-seven members having donated more 
than $2 million toward the construction. 

There continues to be a closer association between the National 
Associate Board and the Board of Regents, with Chairman Griffin 
having attended several Regents meetings. 

New members elected to the board in 1983 were James Clement, 
WiHiam Boeschenstein, Marshall Field, and Mrs. Peter Wray. 

The board met as usual in Washington, D.C., in the autumn of 
1982 and in Chicago in the spring of 1983. 

310 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates 



Continuing efforts by the Women's Committee members paid off 
this year with two highly successful major fundraisers. The net 
proceeds from the annual Christmas Ball, sponsored by the Wom- 
en's Committee, provided support for the following thirteen pro- 
jects, which were selected from forty-one submissions: renovation 
of the Electricity Discovery Corner at the National Museum of 
American History; educational equipment and supplies for the 
National Esturine Sanctuary at Rhodes River; an educational fam- 
ily folder at the Hirshhorn Museum; refurbishment of laboratory 
facilities of the Orchidaceae Collection in the Office of Horticul- 
ture; providing funds for software for a minicomputer project 
named "Growing-Up" in the Department of Paleobiology; assist- 
ing the Department of Botany's Smithsonian-sponsored volume 
on Grasses of Ceylon; assisting the Department of Entomology 
with the Menendez Collection of new species; purchase of original 
photographic negatives and copying of old source prints for the 
Newar Research and improvement of the Himalayan area. National 
Anthropological Archives; research funds for the sites exhibition 
Hollywood: Legend and Reality; a guide for disabled visitors at 
the National Zoo; production of a set of astronomical slides for 
sale at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory; Docent Educa- 
tion Fund for lecture series and Museum Education Day at the 
National Museum of American History; and continuing support 
for the Free Film Theater of the Resident Associate Program. 

The Women's Committee's new fundraiser, the Washington 
Craft Show, was held for the first time May 5-8, 1983, in the 
Departmental Auditorium. More than 6,000 application requests 
were received and 1,500 completed applications were returned. 
The jury, consisting of Lloyd Herman, director of the Renwick 
Gallery; Lee Hall, then president of the Rhode Island School of 
Design; and John Click, well-known potter from Michigan, chose 
100 craftspeople to exhibit and sell at the three-day show. A total 
of $3,000 was awarded in prize money. A fundraising preview 
party was held the evening before the show opened to the public. 
Concurrently, Crafts Today: Ihe 1983 National Forum on Con- 
noisseurship and Collecting was sponsored by the Renwick Collec- 



Membership and Development I 311 



tor's Alliance, the Resident Associate Program, and the National 
Associate Travel Program. The craft show proceeds netted more 
than $45,000 for the Institution; the second annual such show is 
planned for April 26-29, 1984. 

Finally, the East Garden, between the Arts and Industries Build- 
ing and the Hirshhorn Museum, is nearing completion. The Wom- 
en's Committee provided substantial contributions toward its de- 
sign and construction in 1978 and 1979. A formal opening is 
planned for the near future. 



James Smithson Society 

Since the inception of the James Smithson Society in 1977 as the 
highest level of the Contributing Membership Program, it has 
granted more than $1 million in support of Smithsonian projects 
and acquisitions. This year, through the contributions of Annual 
Members, the society provided partial support to the National 
Museum of Natural History for the exhibition The Invisible World, 
as well as acquisition funds to the Freer Gallery of Art for the 
purchase of a pair of Shinto sculptures; to the Hirshhorn Museum 
and Sculpture Garden for the acquisition of a sculpture by Carl 
Milles; and to the National Portrait Gallery for the purchase of a 
glass plate negative of Abraham Lincoln by Alexander Gardner. 

Monies were also allotted to the Smithsonian Tropical Research 
Institute to support a pilot educational and research project, di- 
rected at the recovery and improvement of deforested areas, and 
to the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for a free lecture 
series on modern astronomy, in cooperation with the National Air 
and Space Museum. The Conservation Analytical Laboratory re- 
ceived funds to publish a hardbound publication on the Smith- 
sonian Mace, the scepter which supports the Smithsonian Badge. 

A Radio Smithsonian miniseries on stories and storytellers was 
made possible through funding to the Office of Telecommunica- 
tions. And finally, the Society for the fourth year, has given 
$40,000 toward the construction of the Educational Center within 
the Quadrangle development. 



312 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges the gen- 
erous support of the members of the James Smithson Society. 



Smithsonian National Associate Program 

In Secretary Ripley's words, an Associate is one who has "joined 
a special community . . . [and] become part of a rigorous educa- 
tional and cultural force everywhere in the land." {Smithsonian 
[September 1976] : 6.) This national dynamism was observed again 
and again in 1983 as Associate members participated in activities 
planned for them and as the Institution continued to expand its 
commitment to public education and scholarship through member- 
ship programs. 

Since its inception in 1970, the Smithsonian National Associate 
Program (snap), in cooperation with other Smithsonian bureaus, 
has provided innovative educational opportunities for Smithsonian 
Associates throughout the nation. Through Smithsonian magazine, 
members join activities that increase their awareness of the Institu- 
tion and encourage additional support for its work. 

The four units that currently make up the National Associate 
Program offer benefits to Associates in a variety of ways, all of 
which are directed toward increasing members' personal involve- 
ment with the life of the Smithsonian. The programs include: 
Contributing Membership, Regional Events, Selected Studies Sem- 
inars, and Associates Travel. 



CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIP 

The Contributing Membership of the National Associate Program 
provides unrestricted funds for the Smithsonian's research and 
education programs through six levels of annual memberships: 
Supporting ($50), available only to members living beyond the 
greater Washington, D.C., metropolitan area; Donor ($100); Spon- 
soring ($250); Sustaining ($500); Patron ($1,000); and the James 
Smithson Society ($1,500). 



Membership and Development I 313 



At the end of the 1983 fiscal year, there were 23,000 Contrib- 
uting Members, an increase of 25 percent over 1982. Income from 
these members during the year amounted to $2 milUon. That total 
included more than $129,500 from members who, in addition to 
their annual dues, made a special gift toward construction of the 
Quadrangle, the Smithsonian's new Center for African, Near 
Eastern, and Asian Cultures. Also included are contributions from 
corporations that match their employees' donations to the Smith- 
sonian. Revenue from corporate matching gifts in 1983 was almost 
double that received in 1982. 

Thirteen special events were arranged as benefits for Contrib- 
uting Members during the year. Among these were an opening 
night reception and viewing of the exhibition David Smith: Painter, 
Sculptor, Draftsman at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture 
Garden; a picnic and docent-led tours at the Paul E. Garber Preser- 
vation, Restoration, and Storage Facility of the National Air and 
Space Museum; and a special viewing and reception at the Textile 
Museum for the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition 
Service's show Aymara Weavings: Ceremonial Textiles of Colonial 
and 19th Century Bolivia. For the second year, the Vice-President 
of the United States and Mrs. George Bush served as honorary 
sponsors of the Contributing Membership's "Silverscreen Ball," 
the annual black-tie dance for members, held this year in the 
National Portrait Gallery's Great Hall. 

The Contributing Membership Program has continued to work 
in cooperation with other Smithsonian bureaus to further the aims 
of the Institution. Advance commitment to purchase 9,000 copies 
of the catalogue published in conjunction with the Hirshhorn 
exhibition David Smith: Painter, Sculptor, Draftsman helped in 
the development and printing of that publication. The catalogues 
were sent to members as a benefit of their membership. The Con- 
tributing Membership also purchased and mailed to all of its 
out-of-town members Smithsonian Institution Research Reports, 
published three times a year by the Office of Public Affairs, high- 
lighting the scientific research and educational projects occurring 
throughout the Institution. Contributing Members living outside 
of the Washington area continued to receive priority in registering 
for offerings of the Regional Events Program in their communities 
during the year. 

314 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



REGIONAL EVENTS 

The Regional Events Program brings a sampling of the Smith- 
sonian to Associates Hving beyond the Washington, D.C., area 
by presenting lectures, workshops, and seminars in their home 
communities. In 1983 Smithsonian curators and scientists joined 
the Regional Events Program in Las Vegas, Phoenix, San Diego, 
Oakland, Scranton, Wilkes-Barre, Milwaukee, Lansing, Grand 
Rapids, Kalamazoo, Anchorage, Fairbanks, and Juneau. More than 
160 events were offered to approximately 240,000 Associates and 
members of cosponsoring groups in the host communities. The 
program cooperated with sixty-six local cosponsoring organiza- 
tions and four national cosponsors. 

During 1983 many of the events were fully subscribed and addi- 
tional sessions were scheduled in the host cities. In response to 
demand, a greater number of in-depth seminars were offered. The 
Regional Events Program introduced twenty-six new topics into 
the program that reflect current Smithsonian research and com- 
plement local interests. 

Examples of current programs include "Scientific Illustration" 
with George Venable, National Museum of Natural History 
(nmnh), and "Space Station Construction" with Kerry Joels, Na- 
tional Air and Space Museum (nasm). William Fitzhugh and Susan 
Kaplan (nmnh) lectured on "Inua: Spirit World of the Bering Sea 
Eskimo" highlighting the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhi- 
bition Service show which visited Anchorage and Fairbanks during 
the summer of 1983. Barbara Shissler Nosanow, National Museum 
of American Art, described the art from Applachia in an illus- 
trated lecture. Richard Fiske (nmnh) offered seminars on volcan- 
ology. Clyde Roper (nmnh) presented in-depth seminars on squid 
and octopus and offered cooking classes during which Associates 
prepared and sampled gourmet dishes from the sea. 

During the past year, thirty-three representatives from fifteen 
bureaus of the Institution joined the Regional Events in the host 
cities. In addition to lecturing to Associates and the general public, 
curators and scientists had an opportunity to further their research 
interests by conferring with colleagues throughout the country. 
For example, during his visit to Kalamazoo, Donald Lopez (nasm) 
attended the annual Kalamazoo Air Show. Esin Atil, Freer Gallery 



Membership and Development I 315 



of Art, participated in a symposium on Islamic art during the 
Regional Events Program in Phoenix. 

Another innovation that has allowed the Regional Events Pro- 
gram to expand its audience and offerings is the participation and 
support of national cosponsors: The Institute of Lifetime Learning, 
the American Association of Retired Persons; the EAA Aviation 
Foundation; the National Trust for Historic Preservation; and The 
Alliance Fran^aise. Several corporations — United Airlines, World 
Airways, The Marriott Corporation, The Travelers Inn of Fair- 
banks, and The Hertz Corporation — demonstrated their concern 
for public education by assisting the program with in-kind services. 

Colleges and universities also played a major role in the cospon- 
sorship of the Regional Events Program. The University of Nevada, 
Division of Continuing Education, served as the primary cosponsor 
in Las Vegas. Lectures and seminars were also held at the Uni- 
versity of Wisconsin, Marquette University (Milwaukee), Uni- 
versity of Scranton, and the University of Alaska (Fairbanks). 

The Regional Events Program drew unprecedented notice from 
the media with more than 100 feature articles, including nine 
full-page interviews with Smithsonian lecturers in Scranton. Speak- 
ers were also invited to describe their research interests on thirty- 
one TV and radio broadcasts. The impact of the Regional Events 
Program in host cities was broadened when its staff worked with 
the Appalachian Community Service Network and Southern Edu- 
cational Cable Association to cablecast "Smithsonian Profiles" (five 
one-half hour cable presentations featuring selected Smithsonian 
curators and scientists) to more than two million subscribers 
nationwide. 

SELECTED STUDIES 

Selected Studies, an intensive education program of snap, con- 
ducted fifteen week-long seminars in fiscal year 1983. Drawing 
upon the collections and expert staff of the Smithsonian, as well 
as visiting scholars and scientific and cultural authorities, the pro- 
grams combined illustrated lectures, films, special behind-the- 
scenes tours, and field trips to offer National Associates compre- 
hensive courses on a wide variety of topics in the arts, humanities, 
and sciences. 



316 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



People of many ages, backgrounds, and interests — ranging from 
novices to lifelong enthusiasts or travelers preparing for or con- 
tinuing their studies abroad — enroll from all parts of the United 
States. A number of professionals who participate do so in order 
to increase their contacts, update their knowledge, or make a 
career change. Participants also come from Canada and occasion- 
ally from other countries. This spring two Associates from the 
Arabian Gulf country of Bahrain attended the program "Quilting 
with the Experts." 

Because of growing demand generated by previous offerings 
and the necessity of limiting enrollment to assure a personal sem- 
inar atmosphere, many of the popular subjects were repeated, 
including "Genealogical Research: How to Do It," "Connoisseur- 
ship of American Antique Furniture, 1650-1840," "China: A Cul- 
tural History," and "Aircraft Restoration: How To." 

At the same time, a whole new direction in study programs 
started with the introduction of the "Contemporary Book Publish- 
ing" course. The director and staff of the Smithsonian Institution 
Press and guest experts highlighted new developments in editing, 
designing, producing, and marketing popular, trade, and scholarly 
books today. Participants ranged from technical writers from 
Fortune 500 companies to college book store managers, college 
professors, successful authors and those hoping to be published. 

Another highlight included the participation of the personal 
representative of His Holiness the Dalai Lama, Tenzin Tethong, 
in the program "Tibet: Lost Horizons." Large numbers of travelers 
who had already participated in Associate Travel Program Study 
tours to Yucatan, or who were preparing to go, attended the 
seminar on the Maya taught by George Stuart, staff archeologist 
at the National Geographic Society. 

Two major exhibitions were the basis for several new programs. 
Painting in Naples from Caravaggio to Luca Giordano, at the 
National Gallery of Art, was the focus of an art seminar, "Passion 
and Power: Baroque Art," which drew many participants who had 
attended previous art seminars. "The Golden Age of Flight" pro- 
gram was offered in anticipation of that major gallery opening at 
the National Air and Space Museum. It featured the nasm staff, 
popular authors, and Gen. Leigh Wade, who made the first round- 
the-world flight 



Membership and Development I 317 




Donald Lopez, deputy director of the National Air and Space Museum, shows 
rare aircraft at the Paul E. Garber Facility to participants from all over the 
United States in the "Golden Age of Flight" program, one of the National 
Associates' Selected Studies seminars. 



ASSOCIATES TRAVEL PROGRAM 
The Associates Travel Program of snap presents educational study 
tours that mirror the interests and concerns of the Institution. 
Tours are designed for members who are particularly interested in 
the work of the national museums and the subjects in Smithsonian 
magazine. The educational content of both foreign and domestic 
tours is enhanced by a study leader; each trip is led by one or more 
Smithsonian or guest scholars as well as Smithsonian staff repre- 
sentatives. Since 1975, more than 40,000 Associates have partici- 
pated in study tours throughout the world. 

In 1983 domestic and foreign study tours continued to show 
strong enrollments with more than 3,000 members traveling on 
100 tours. Many of the tours were filled four to six months prior 
to departure, and several programs were repeated to accommodate 
demand. 

Associates chose from forty Domestic Study Tours to all parts 
of the United States, from Hawaii to Florida. Over two-thirds of 
these trips were planned to give Associates a greater appreciation 
of the natural world. A marine biologist introduced Associates to 
the importance of barrier islands and estuaries while camping on 
Georgia's Sapelo Island. During their stay on the Dry Tortugas, 
Associates observed the Sooty Tern that nests only on these remote 
islands. Another group camped and hiked on three Hawaiian 
islands and observed the geologic evidence of their unique develop- 
ment. Geology became more meaningful to Associates who hiked 
in Bryce, Zion, Grand Canyon, and Big Bend National Parks. 
Others explored Yellowstone on cross-country skis to examine at 
close range the ways plants and animals adapt to winter. 

Some tours were designed to develop a greater appreciation of 
America's heritage. Associates visited Kentucky, North Carolina, 
and Louisiana, and discovered the special ethnic flavor of these 
regions as represented by their architecture, decorative arts and 
foods. The history of the Old West was featured on trips to Colo- 
rado and Wyoming. Local historians recreated the excitement of 
the gold rush era on a program of Colorado's mining and railroad 
history. Herman Viola, director of the National Anthropological 
Archives, led a trip to Wyoming to tell the story of the Indian 
Wars. He was joined by representatives of the Sioux and Crow 
Indian tribes, who related stories from their family histories. For 



Membership and Development I 319 



those interested in contemporary American crafts, a weekend pro- 
gram was designed in conjunction with the first annual Washing- 
ton Craft Show sponsored by the Smithsonian's Women's Com- 
mittee. 

There were many new destinations for participants in the 
Foreign Study Tours. The residential seminar program was ex- 
panded to include Florence in addition to Salzburg, Kyoto, Scot- 
land, and Oxford University. The Asia series continued with a 
study tour focusing on history, culture, and art in Thailand and 
Burma, and thirteen tours covered a variety of destinations in the 
People's Republic of China. New land-based programs in Europe 
included two art history tours in Italy, and a two-week country- 
side visit to Rouen and the Normandy region of France. Members 
studied canals and industrial archeology in England and Wales, 
and participated in special lectures, tours, and festivities during 
the Christmas season in Canterbury. Walter Boyne (nasm) led 
aviation enthusiasts on a study tour of airfields and air museums 
in England and France. 

Study voyages allowed Associates to travel with Paul Taylor 
(nmnh) through the islands of Indonesia, to study the countries 
bordering the Black Sea with Von Hardesty (nasm), and to visit 
Ecuador and the Galapagos Islands under the direction of David 
Steadman (nmnh). Headed by Terry Erwin (nmnh), a team of eight 
scientists, including Betty Meggers (nmnh), Stanley Weitzman 
(nmnh), and George Venable (nmnh), led members on a study 
voyage along the Amazon River, from Belem, Brazil, to Iquitos, 
Peru. Associates visited sites of historical importance in Egypt and 
Jordan while crusing the Red Sea, and participated in the Smith- 
sonian's first Nile cruises, sailing from Cairo to Aswan. A group 
of adventurous sailors studied marine biology and maritime history 
on a two-week Atlantic crossing from Spain to the Caribbean 
aboard the tall ship Sea Cloud. 

More than 3,000 Associates participated in the Washington 
"Anytime" Weekend, designed to give members an opportunity 
to visit the nation's capital and the Smithsonian any weekend 
during the year. The -program is executed in cooperation with 
Visitors Information and Associates' Reception Center, which pro- 
vides a behind-the-scenes tour of the Castle and is available for 
information and guidance during the weekend. 



320 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Smithsonian Associates study the intricately carved houses in Tana Toradja 
on the island of Sulawesi during a trip to Indonesia. 



Smithsonian Resident Associate Program 

The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program — the private, self- 
supporting, cuhural, continuing education, membership, and out- 
reach arm of the Smithsonian Institution for metropoHtan Wash- 
ington, D.C. — is considered a model for museum membership and 
educational programs both nationally and internationally. Estab- 
lished in 1965 by Secretary Ripley to provide opportunities for 
those who live in the Washington area to participate actively in 
the life of the Smithsonian, the program offers an extensive range 
of innovative, high-quality, and timely activities that complement 
and enhance the exhibitions, collections, and research of the Insti- 
tution. 

The Resident Associate Program draws its membership from 
the District of Columbia, Northern Virginia, and Maryland; mem- 
bership has grown from 8,000 with a retention rate of about 50 
percent in 1972 to 55,000 in 1983, with a retention rate of 79 per- 
cent in fiscal year 1983 (up 3 percent from 1982). During fiscal 
year 1983, the more than 950 activities offered were attended by 
117,000 persons, a substantial increase both in number of events 
and participants from the previous year. 

Self-supporting since 1972, the program fully reimburses the 
Institution for office space rental, computer and audiovisual sup- 
port, labor and guard service, and administrative support. More- 
over, the program has annually generated a modest surplus, which 
is transferred to the unrestricted funds of the Institution. 

COOPERATION WITH SMITHSONIAN BUREAUS 

The program's primary focus continues to be planning activities 
which enhance popular appreciation of Smithsonian exhibitions, 
collections, and curatorial research. 

This year's collaboration with the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp- 
ture Garden included special evenings with artist Friedel Dzubas 
and art historian, director, and collector Perry Rathbone; informal 
dialogues with dealer Mary Boone and critic Carter Ratcliff; and a 
lecture by Grace Glueck (see Lectures section for more details). 
The program also offered member previews of the Hirshhorn's 
David Smith, Painter, Sculptor, Draftsman exhibition in November. 



322 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Four new Smithsonian museum directors were welcomed by the 
Resident Associate Program this year. A special evening was 
planned in October for Resident Associates to meet Charles 
Eldredge, National Museum of American Art, and Alan Fern, Na- 
tional Portrait Gallery. Sylvia Williams, new director of the 
National Museum of African Art, was introduced to Resident Asso- 
ciates at an informal June lecture and reception. Walter Boyne 
presented two programs for Resident Associates, one in June in 
recognition of his new position as director of the National Air and 
Space Museum, and the other dealing with research for his new 
book, Boeing B-52: A Documentary History (Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Press, 1983). 

Roger Kennedy, director of the National Museum of American 
History, presented three lectures on church architecture in Amer- 
ica, and Theodore Reed, director of the National Zoo, posed the 
question "Why Zoos?" in a thoughtful lecture before he retired 
last April. A lecture on "Gravitational Images in Space" was de- 
livered in July by Irwin Shapiro, new director of the Harvard- 
Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics in Cambridge, Massachusetts. 

In cooperation with Charles Eldredge, Lloyd Herman, director of 
the Renwick Gallery, and the Women's Committee of Smithsonian 
Associates, the Resident Associate Program was one of the orga- 
nizers of the "Crafts Today" four-day forum of American craft 
arts scheduled concurrently with the first Washington Craft Show, 
sponsored by the Women's Committee. 

Two evening extravaganzas — "Step into the Eighteenth Cen- 
tury" — were staged for young people and their families to celebrate 
the National Portrait Gallery's Charles Willson Peale exhibition. 

More than 16,000 Associates enjoyed the gala Stars exhibition 
openings at the National Air and Space Museum in June. R. E. G. 
Davies, Charles A. Lindbergh Professor of Aerospace History, 
lectured on the history of commercial aviation and also created an 
original, limited-edition color print of the Castle building, which 
Resident Associates have purchased in large quantity. 

The program continued to commission original works of art to 
commemorate Smithsonian events. The latest work, commissioned 
at the end of fiscal year 1983, is a panoramic view of the Smith- 
sonian museums on the Mall by artist Richard Haas. 

A number of courses and lectures were organized during the 



Membership and Development I 323 




Sylvia Williams, new director of the National Museum of African Art, 
speaks with guests at an informal reception in June for Resident Associates. 
(Photograph by Lillian M. O'Connell) 



year in collaboration with the Woodrow Wilson International 
Center for Scholars: examining Russia after Brezhnev; Japanese 
culture and society today and in the coming decades; and taking 
a look at the modern Egyptians. The Soviet film series "Kino" (see 
Film section) was presented in cooperation with the center's Ken- 
nan Institute for Advanced Russian Studies. 

The Resident Associate Program responded to the Institution- 
wide celebration of the bicentennial of the Treaty of Paris, which 
formally concluded the American Revolution, with several activi- 
ties, including a series of the best of British films, a course, and 
lectures. 

The program conducted its ninth annual photography contest 
for Resident Associates, young and old. Subjects of the entries 
are Smithsonian-related (museum buildings, objects in the collec- 
tions, or people relating to Smithsonian buildings, grounds, or col- 
lections), and the winning photographs are displayed in the Asso- 
ciate Court and published in the Associate newsletter. 

OUTREACH 

The Resident Associate Program works closely with civic, cultural, 
and educational institutions in Washington, presenting activities 
which are open to the public as well as to members. 

For the tenth consecutive year, the program presented the Audu- 
bon Lecture Series in cosponsorship with the Audubon Naturalist 
Society and the Friends of the National Zoo. This year's double 
series attracted more than 730 subscribers and a total of 9,300 
persons for all the lectures. 

In March the program collaborated with the Northern Virginia 
Chapter of the American Institute of Architects and the Wash- 
ington/Alexandria Center of the College of Architecture and 
Urban Studies, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University 
to present the second in an annual series of architectural design 
seminars. These provide a forum for the study and application of 
basic design principles to a specific site in the Washington area — 
this year, the area adjacent to the new King Street Metro Station 
in Alexandria, Virginia. Taught by some of the most distinguished 
architects and architectural educators in the country, the seminar 
combined lectures, discussion panels, and small group studio 
charrettes. 



Membership and Development I 325 



In an all-day seminar, prominent national officials and educators 
discussed the implications of the Law of the Sea Convention for 
the United States and other nations of the world. The program was 
cosponsored with Ambassador Elliott Richardson and Citizens for 
Ocean Law. 

To celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Folger Shakespeare 
Library, the program presented a season of sell-out evenings, which 
included five theatrical productions embellished by postperfor- 
mance encounters with actors, directors, and producers, and a 
lecture by O. B. Hardison, director of the Folger Shakespeare 
Library. For the seventh consecutive year, a Caribbean Gala was 
presented, saluting the Caribbean/American Intercultural Organi- 
zations' annual Caribbean Independence Week. Jamaican, Trini- 
dadian, and Virgin Island dances were featured. 

The Resident Associate Program, in its ongoing efforts to attract 
more minority members for its activities, cosponsored a fall break- 
fast at the Smithsonian Castle for black ministers with the Council 
of Churches of Greater Washington, through its executive director, 
Ernest Gibson. In observance of Black History Month in February, 
the program offered a tour to the Mary McLeod Bethune Museum. 
Mary Bethune was an adviser on black issues to four presidents, 
an international consultant on human rights, and a renowned edu- 
cator, who founded the Bethune-Cookman College. 

The seventeenth annual Smithsonian Kite Festival — open to 
Associates and the general public — took place in March, with hun- 
dreds of participants entering kites of all sizes and shapes and 
representing countries from as far away as Taiwan. 

For the eleventh consecutive year, tuition-free scholarships were 
awarded to inner-city young people and adults to attend courses. 
Through the District of Columbia Public School System, eighty- 
six elementary school students received full scholarships to attend 
Young Associate classes in fiscal year 1983, and 247 scholarships 
were awarded to adults, high school students, and Smithsonian 
docents to attend the program's adult courses. School authorities 
agreed this spring to grant professional credit to teachers attend- 
ing program courses. In addition, secondary school teachers who 
took part in the summer workshops of the Discover Graphics pro- 
gram (see section on New Activities) were eligible for graduate 
credit from Trinity College. 



326 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



NATIONAL CONCERNS 

The Resident Associate Program occupies a prominent position in 
the continuing education field. Resident Associate staff members 
are active in the National University Continuing Education Asso- 
ciation (nucea) as well as in the American Association of Mu- 
seums. The program's director consults regularly in education, pro- 
gramming, and membership for museums, art centers, and institu- 
tions of higher learning throughout the country and abroad. The 
associate director lectured on planning at the regional conference 
of NUCHA in November; the young associate coordinator lectured 
on programming for young people at the American Association of 
Museum Northeast Regional Meeting, and the program coordinator 
for adult courses was named chair-elect of the regional chapter of 

NUCHA. 

INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES 

The Resident Associate Program was active in several different 
international arenas during the year. Courses, a seminar, studio 
arts, young people's programs, and a film series were offered under 
a grant from the National Commission as part of the year-long 
American celebration of the Tricentennial of German Emigration 
to America. A historical photographic exhibition, Germans to 
America, 300 Years of Immigration 1683-1983, was presented in 
the Castle in April, cosponsored by the Resident Associate Pro- 
gram and the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany. The 
program also presented several activities to complement the Islam 
Centennial XIV celebration in this country. The director served on 
the national committee for the United Nation's declaration of 1983 
as "World Communications Year," and several courses were pre- 
sented on telecommunications. In collaboration with the Scandi- 
navian embassies, a seminar on Scandinavian design, a course on 
Finland, and a course on Scandinavian art, music, and literature 
highlighted the 1983 celebration of Scandinavia Today. A film fes- 
tival featuring the new Australian cinema was offered in coopera- 
tion with the Australian Film Commission and the Embassy of 
Australia — and sold out three times. 

LECTURES, SEMINARS, SYMPOSIA, PERFORMING ARTS, FILMS 
This component of the program enables members to enjoy a 



Membership and Development I 327 



variety of individual cultural experiences. During the year, 153 
events in the arts, humanities, and sciences, were attended by more 
than 54,000 people. 

Lectures 

Notable speakers included sculptor Isamu Noguchi; painter Friedel 
Dzubas; leading authority on museum and private art collections 
Perry Rathbone; master storyteller Jay O'Callahan; veteran ani- 
mator Walter Lantz; NASA chief scientist Frank McDonald; as- 
tronomer and university president Richard Berendzen; award- 
winning historian William E. Leuchtenberg; biochemist Cyril Pon- 
namperuma; paleoanthropologist Donald Johanson; and Folger 
Shakespeare Library director O. B. Hardison. More than 27,000 
persons attended the ninty-six individual lectures this year. 

Seminars and Symposia 

Nineteen intensive day-long seminars and symposia enabled 2,850 
participants to examine a wide variety of subjects. Eminent scholars 
addressed new interpretations of Manet, the search for human 
origins, the arts of ancient China, the revolutionary early-twen- 
tieth-century art movement, "The Eight," visions of society and 
technology of the twenty-first century, the international impera- 
tives to save the sea about us, new excavations at the ancient city 
of Ebla, and penetrating analyses of contemporary West Germany 
in the international balance of power. 

Performing Arts 

Sunday morning concerts, a regular annual feature, presented 
music from medieval to modern in elegant and gracious settings. 
For the fourth consecutive year, demand necessitated a double 
schedule of pianist John Eaton's American popular music Sunday 
concert series. Summer outdoor concerts in the courtyard of the 
National Museum of American Art/National Portrait Gallery fea- 
tured outstanding jazz. Dixieland, Latin, and bluegrass groups, at- 
tracting capacity audiences. International distinction was added to 
the program with the mesmerizing sitar trio performance of world- 
renowned musician Imrat Khan and his sons; by the Caribbean 



328 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Artist Isamu Noguchi treated Resi- 
dent Associates to a rare public ap- 
pearance in a slide-illustration eve- 
ning of his life's work. 



Dizzie Gillespie performed in the 
Resident Associate Program's "Trib- 
ute to Earl 'Fatha' Hines," opening 
the performing arts season. (Photo- 
graph by Lillian M. O'Connell) 




Heritage Group and Mudra-Caribe at the annual Caribbean Gala; 
and by the Berlin Brass Quintet and the Annapohs Brass Quintet 
saluting the German-American Tricentennial Celebration. 

Launching the new, expanded performing arts aspect of the Resi- 
dent Associate Program, two prominent and highly acclaimed 
events opened the fall season. Jazz greats Dizzy Gillespie and Billy 
Eckstine paid a memorable tribute to the late Earl "Fatha" Hines; 
"Playing the Palace/' a ringing performance of ragtime, inaugu- 
rated the new concert series cosponsored with the National Por- 
trait Gallery. 

Films 

"Kino," an extraordinarily successful series of Soviet films, was 
presented in cooperation with the American Film Institute and the 
Embassy of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Premiere 
screenings of recent productions in the "New Australian Cinema" 
series attracted overflow audiences. The "Opera on Film" series, 
deluged with subscribers, necessitated use of a larger theater to 
accommodate demand. IMAX previews of Flyers, Hail Columbia, 
and Behold Hawaii introduced full houses to these technically ad- 
vanced, aesthetically stunning large-format films. "Life in the 
Negro Baseball League" brought stars of the league to the Smith- 
sonian for a world premiere of the film There Was Always Sun 
Shining Someplace, which they discussed with the filmmakers and 
museum curator Carl Scheele in a moving and inspiring evening of 
reminiscence. 

Filmmaker Johanna Spector introduced her award-winning films 
on "Vanishing Jewish Communities," engendering a flood of re- 
quests requiring a repeat program to an overflow audience. Two 
special series were developed to observe international commemora- 
tive occasions: "Hollywood Goes German" celebrated the Tricen- 
tennial of German Emigration with film classics created by German 
masters of cinema who also became established as leaders of the 
American film industry; "The Best of Britain" celebrated the bi- 
centennial of the signing of the Treaty of Paris. More than 17,000 
persons attended Resident Associate films this year. 

The Free Film Theater, supported by the Women's Committee of 
Smithsonian Associates, Educational Outreach Funds, and the Resi- 



330 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



dent Associate Program, presented forty-nine film programs, re- 
peated twice a week, October through June. 

COURSES 

Lecture Series 

The curriculum of arts, sciences, and humanities for educated 
adults — offered four terms per year — provides opportunities for 
serious study with Smithsonian and visiting scholars. In 1983, 190 
lecture courses were offered, attended by 9,085 students, setting a 
new record as the highest Resident Associate enrollment ever, up 
9 percent over the previous year. 

Among the best-attended courses were "Color and Interior De- 
sign," planned in conjunction with the Potomac Chapter of the 
American Society of Interior Designers; "Basic Computer Liter- 
acy"; "Russia After Brezhnev"; "The Telecommunications Revolu- 
tion"; and "Architecture: the State of the Art/' cosponsored with 
the Washington Metropolitan Chapter of the American Institute 
of Architects. 

The year's outstanding guest lecturers included architects Charles 
Gwathmey, John Burgee, and Stanley Tigerman; antique expert 
Harold Sack; political cartoonist Pat Oliphant; Cyril Black, director 
for International Studies, Princeton University; and the extraordi- 
nary Buckminster Fuller, who delivered one of his last public talks 
before his death. 

New courses explored facets of telecommunications and com- 
puter literacy. The noontime program continues to offer Resident 
Associates an opportunity to participate during the daytime, with 
a total of thirty-two courses at sites on the Mall and at Dupont 
Circle. 

Studio Arts 

The studio arts program seeks to enhance appreciation of age-old 
crafts, keeping alive hands-on techniques now rapidly disappear- 
ing from our modern world, as well as introducing contemporary 
arts and crafts. Intensive courses in sketching, wood sculpture, and 
photography, and short classes in figure drawing and painting on 
fabric were extremely well received. An expanded selection of 
photographic courses and workshops was offered during the year — 



Membership and Development I 331 



architectural photography, portrait photography, and darkroom 
courses dealing with the hand-colored print, platinum, and pal- 
ladium photography, and color-processing techniques. Workshops 
on spring gardening and a new course in travel photography 
were among the highlights of the 167 programs attended by 2,330 
individuals throughout the year. 

A major change in studio arts programming occurred at mid- 
year with the decision to engage a full-time coordinator to, plan 
studio arts activities. In addition to continuing classes and work- 
shops mentioned above, the coordinator will develop new day- 
time programs and serve as supervisor of the Resident Associate- 
sponsored Discover Grafphics program. 

TOURS 

On-site learning experiences are organized for small groups in the 
fields of art, architecture, archeology, history, industry, and science. 
Ranging in length from one hour to two days, tours are geared to 
appeal to a spectrum of age groups, financial circumstances, and 
interests. Art and architecture continue to be among the most 
popular subjects. Two new art tours to New York explored two 
entirely different areas: TriBeCa and Wall Street, the home of 
corporate art, young artists, new galleries, and private collections; 
and the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Vatican Art exhibition and 
other major shows. Overnight tours of historic areas continue to 
grow in popularity: Lynchburg, Virginia, and Beaufort/New Bern, 
North Carolina, tours were both oversubscribed, and a two-day 
tour to New York/ Connecticut Valley areas of inspiration for 
American impressionists, was well received. Science tours also have 
increased in number and popularity, with birding, geology, and 
botany subjects heading the list. In 1983, 250 different tours took 
place, with a total participation of more than 28,000. 

YOUNG ASSOCIATE AND FAMILY ACTIVITIES 

Through Young Associate and Family activities, the Smithsonian's 
resources are enhanced for young people, ages three to fifteen. 
Classes, workshops, monthly free films for families, tours, and 
performances exploring history, art, science, and studio arts are 
tailored to their ages and interests. Innovative parent/child classes 



332 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



and workshops enable parents and children to work together on 
projects of mutual interest. 

The Young Associate program offered its first "Summer Camp" 
this year. Classes met all morning, every weekday for one or two 
weeks. All classes were team-taught, combining the talents of an 
art or science teacher and a professional in the subject area. From 
all accounts — instructors, students, and parents — "Summer Camp" 
was entirely successful and will be expanded in the future. In 
1983, 154 young associate and family programs were attended by 
more than 11,000 individuals. 

VOLUNTEERS 

A total of 389 volunteers provided invaluable assistance to the 
Resident Associate Program, monitoring special events, lectures, 
courses, and tours, and performing vital office duties. The eighty 
volunteer office workers represent the equivalent of five full-time 
staff members, and the hours contributed by monitor volunteers 
is equivalent to the work of six full-time staff members. All volun- 
teers were feted at a special reception at the Renwick Gallery on 
September 22, and office volunteers at a luncheon on April 14. 

NEW ACTIVITIES 

Performing Arts 

On February 8, 1983, the Resident Associate Program was given 
the responsibility of presenting Smithsonian subscription perform- 
ing arts events. A staff has been developed, and the 1983-84 sea- 
son organized. Initially, the Resident Associate Program sched- 
uled most of the subscription series formerly operated by the Divi- 
sion of Performing Arts; subsequently, new events were added. 
The 1983-84 season will be characterized by a wide range of offer- 
ings exploring America's popular music heritage, country music, 
ethnic/folk music programs, performances by international en- 
sembles on tour in the United States, and dance. The goals of this 
performing arts program are: (1) maintaining channels of com- 
munication with Smithsonian bureaus, linking performing arts pre- 
sentations with Smithsonian museum exhibitions; (2) the selection 
and presentation of music, dance, theater, and inter-disciplinary 



Membership and Development I 333 



performances of high quality; (3) fiscal responsibility, with the 
understanding that some programs worthy of presentation will not 
be able to generate sufficient income to cover the costs of presenta- 
tion; (4) carefully controlled growth from season to season, draw- 
ing upon acknowledged experts in the arts, as well as Smithsonian 
resources; (5) outreach to new audiences, previously unaware of 
the variety and depth of Smithsonian programs, and to established 
audiences in new ways and new formats; and (6) the development 
of a purposeful direction on which to base sound future program- 
ming. 

Discovery Theater 

In February 1983 the Discovery Theater also became a responsi- 
bility of the Resident Associate Program. Managed by the Program 
Coordinator for Young Associate and Family Activities, the theater 
is scheduled for a full season (October-June) of live and puppet 
presentations for young people and family audiences — entertain- 
ment selected for its intrinsic learning components. 

Discover Graphics 

When the National Museum of American Art discontinued its sup- 
port for Discover Graphics in November 1982, its survival as an 
important community service was endorsed by the Smithsonian's 
Under Secretary and Assistant Secretary for History and Art. Dis- 
cover Graphics had served Washington, D.C., area secondary 
schools for more than ten years, providing talented students and 
their teachers opportunities to study etching and lithography with 
a master printmaker in museum space designed for this purpose. 
Proposals were sought from local universities and art schools, and, 
after due consideration by a special Smithsonian committee, it was 
determined that Discover Graphics should become a part of the 
Resident Associate Program. Educational Outreach Funds were 
granted for the 1983-84 school year, with additional support from 
the Office of the Mayor, D.C. Commission on the Arts and 
Humanities. 

A master printmaker is now teaching student and teacher work- 
shops at the Union Printmakers Atelier in the Lansburgh Cultural 
Center, the new home of Discover Graphics. Twenty-six students 



334 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Master printmaker Scip Barnhart conducts a teacher-training workshop in 
Uthography at the Lansburgh Cultural Center for the Discover Graphics pro- 
gram. Recently taken over by the Resident Associate Program, Discover 
Graphics reaches high school students and teachers in the Washington 
metropolitan area. (Photograph by Lillian M. O'Connell) 



and teachers participated in the first two workshops in May 1983, 
and nine teachers attended the teacher training workshops during 
the summer. All twelve 1983-84 workshops are fully booked, with 
more than 150 students and teachers from the District of Colum- 
bia, Maryland, and Northern Virginia secondary schools. 

Tuesday Mornings at the Smithsonian 

In March, the Resident Associate Program initiated "Tuesday 
Mornings at the Smithsonian," a low-ticket-price series of twelve 
weekly lectures, scheduled each season, given by Smithsonian and 
visiting scholars, preceded by complimentary coffee, tea, and rolls. 
Specifically designed to engage the interest of older citizens during 
daytime hours, the series are open to all who are interested in 
learning more about art, science, history, foreign cultures, and poli- 
tics. The initial spring series attracted an audience of more than 
400, and the summer series was also well attended. 

SUMMARY 

After a temporary drop, membership has recovered and is grow- 
ing in 1983, along with a rise in the rate of retention. Activities 
have increased to meet demand. The assumption of major Smith- 
sonian performing arts activities and Discover Graphics has 
added new dimensions to the Resident Associate Program. The 
close cooperation between the program and the museums, and the 
cosponsored activities with local, national, and international pro- 
fessional organizations and government agencies, speak well for 
the program's ongoing reputation as a vital, creative outreach 
component of the Institution. 



336 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Selby Kelly, widow of the creator of "Pogo," opened the Resident Associate 
course "Giants of Cartoon Art" with a special exhibition of the work of 
Walt Kelly, preceding her lecture on the wit and humor of this niaster 
cartoonist. (Photograph by Lillian M. O'Connell) 



Smithsonian Year . ip8} 



PUBLIC INFORMATION 



LAWRENCE E. TAYLOR, 
COORDINATOR 



Office of Public Affairs 

The opening of the Museum Support Center in Suitland, Mary- 
land, and the completion of the first major inventory in the Insti- 
tution's history were major Smithsonian stories last year. The 
Office of Public Affairs (opa) developed and coordinated major 
publicity programs for both events. 

On May 9, 1983, the office organized an extensive all-day media 
briefing and tour of the new Support Center, which was attended 
by reporters representing local and national media. Major articles 
appeared in the Washington Post, the New York Times, numerous 
science publications, and suburban Maryland newspapers. The 
office also worked with reporters on their coverage of the official 
dedication ceremonies of the building on May 16. To highlight 
the new center, public affairs staff members produced a special, 
four-page supplement on the Museum Support Center for the 
May issue of The Torch, the monthly newspaper for employees 
and friends of the Smithsonian. 

A major public relations campaign on the completion of the 
inventory, an Institution-wide project, was planned and carried 
out by the office. Extensive media coverage of the inventory began 
with a feature report on the CBS Evening News in early June and 
continued through mid-July with television stations filming behind- 
the-scenes features, wire services sending stories across the country 
about what the Institution "found" during the inventory, and 
radio stations airing interviews on the "great counting." 



338 



The office also assisted with publicity plans for the ground- 
breaking of the Quadrangle on June 21, 1983. The ceremony, 
attended by Vice-President George Bush and Chief Justice Warren 
Burger, was covered by both national and local media. 

The Smithsonian News Service, a free, monthly feature-story 
service produced by the opa for daily and weekly newspapers, con- 
tinued to grow in size and popularity in its fourth year of opera- 
tion. During the year, 127 daily and weekly newspapers joined 
the ranks of Smithsonian News Service subscribers, bringing the 
total number to more than 1,525. In addition, twenty-one national 
publications, including Vogue and The Ladies Home Journal, asked 
to receive the News Service. Several museum publications and a 
number of craft publications were also added. These additions 
reflected an interest on the part of the News Service to reach out 
to new readers with specific interests. 

During the year, the News Service distributed fifty features 
covering such major, newsworthy, and timely subjects as acid rain, 
computer literacy, preservation of old movie palaces, new studies 
on city living, American crafts, and the one hundredth anni- 
versaries of the Brooklyn Bridge and the eruption of the Indo- 
nesian volcano, Krakatau. A January feature on quilts generated 
almost 1,000 letters from the public to the Textile Division of the 
National Museum of American History. 

Two features for Black History Month, one on educator Anna J. 
Cooper and another on black aviators, were popular and brought 
extensive coverage in ethnic publications. Smithsonian News Ser- 
vice stories continued to be the source of broadcasts by the Na- 
tional Public Radio, the United States Information Agency, and 
stories printed in newspapers for the Armed Forces. 

Recognizing the outstanding quality of the service, the National 
Association of Government Communicators awarded a third place 
in the "feature" category of its nationwide "Blue Pencil Contest" 
to a News Service story on teddy bears. The Torch also received 
a third place in the same contest in the in-house newspaper 
category. 

As part of its continuing mission to encourage visits to the 
Smithsonian, the Office of Public Affairs produced in April 1983 
a thirty-second television public-service announcement (psa) fea- 
turing noted actor Gregory Peck, who invited visitors to come to 



Public Information I 339 




Actor Gregory Peck stands in front of the Conestoga wagon in the National 
Museum of American History for the filming of a television public service 
announcement for the Smithsonian Institution. 



the Smithsonian to seek out its diverse offerings. The closed- 
captioned psa (for the hearing-impaired) was extremely well re- 
ceived and was aired over individual stations in thirty-eight states, 
from California to Virginia, and nationally through satellite facili- 
ties. The office also produced and distributed in July 1983 a thirty- 
second Spanish-language psa for television, based on an earlier 
English-language version. This psa was sent to limited but specially 
targeted stations and was aired in the Washington, D.C., area as 
well as all the continental states through the Spanish International 
Network and the satellite facilities of the Turner Broadcasting 
System in Atlanta. 

The OPA also produced for the Office of Elementary and Secon- 
dary Education a thirty-second, open-captioned psa for television 
to inform the public that the Smithsonian is working to make its 
facilities more accessible to handicapped visitors. This psa was 
originally distributed regionally in Washington, D.C., Maryland, 
Virginia, and Pennsylvania; subsequently, the President's Commit- 
tee on Employment of the Handicapped funded distribution na- 
tionally to cable networks, resulting in its use in twenty-five 
states. The psa was awarded an honorable mention in the "Gold 
Screen" competition of the National Association of Government 
Communicators. 

The Smithsonian Calendar of Events, published monthly in the 
Washington Post, was redesigned during the year to include more 
useful and timely information and also was made available to 
visually impaired people on audio-cassette through the Washing- 
ton, D.C., public library system. 

Research at the Smithsonian continued to receive wide coverage 
in the three-times-a-year periodical Research Reports, which was 
redesigned and expanded during its tenth anniversary year in 1982. 
As a result of special promotional efforts by the opa in 1983, 
circulation rose from 18,000 to more than 25,000. The response 
reflected a lively interest from scholarly communities, journalists, 
foundations, and Smithsonian Contributing Members. The publica- 
tion received first prize in the annual competition of the D.C. 
Chapter of the Society for Technical Communication and an honor- 
able mention from "the International Society for Technical Com- 
munication in the newsletter category. 

In an effort to broaden the use of foreign language versions of 



Public Information I 341 



the Smithsonian's general-inforn\ation "Welcome" brochure — the 
publication seen by most visitors to Smithsonian museums — the 
OPA, in cooperation with the Visitor Information and Associates' 
Reception Center and the Office of Exhibits Central, developed 
four-language, lucite signs, offering the brochures in Japanese, 
Spanish, German, and French. The signs are displayed on museum 
information desks. 

To aid journalists covering Smithsonian activities, the office 
revised and updated the Smithsonian Resource Directory, a com- 
pendium of staff members and their specialties, extensively cross- 
referenced for easy use. The office also continued to provide assis- 
tance to other bureaus and offices, with an opa staff member assist- 
ing the Office of Folklife Programs by preparing, coordinating, and 
distributing information to the media about the seventeenth annual 
Festival of American Folklife and for events held at the Renwick 
Gallery in conjunction with the exhibition Celebration: A World 
of Art and Ritual. 



342 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Smithsonian Year . ip8} 



READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC. 



MRS. ELLIOT RICHARDSON, CHAIRMAN 
RUTH GRAVES, PRESIDENT 



Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. (rif) is a private, nonprofit cor- 
poration that works at the grassroots level to motivate young 
people to read. Founded in 1966 on the premise that children will 
want to read if given the chance to choose and keep their own 
books, the program has since grown from a single pilot project to 
the nation's largest reading motivation program. Currently there 
are 3,200 projects in all fifty states, the District of Columbia, 
Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Guam. 

Through its network of more than 100,000 volunteers, rif is 
able to reach some 2.3 million young people (ages three through 
high school) with 7.7 million books. Rif projects operate in more 
than 10,000 locations and a wide variety of settings: rural areas, 
metropolitan areas, and inner cities; elementary and secondary 
schools; libraries and summer reading programs; hospitals and 
health clinics; day-care centers and recreation programs; correc- 
tional facilities and juvenile training centers. This year, more than 
82,000 of the young people reached are children of migrant farm 
workers. 

All told, rif has delivered more than 52 million books to young 
people in the last seventeen years. 

The rif program is characterized by volunteerism, self-help, and 
community involvement. Rif's volunteers — parents, teachers, 
school administrators, librarians, businessmen, civic leaders, and 
citizens concerned about literacy — raise funds, select and order 
books, and devise activities that transform nonreaders into readers. 



343 



They hold reading contests, puppet shows, readers' theaters, and 
language festivals; they invite celebrities to visit the project and 
tell young people how crucial reading is to success. These activities 
precede and follow the book distribution, where children have the 
chance to choose, from a wide range of paperbacks, the books that 
most appeal to them. 

Evidence is mounting that although rif confines itself to moti- 
vating young people to read, it has also become a vital step in 
building reading skills. Children who discover that reading is fun 
naturally read more; and as they do, their skills improve. Several 
studies and tens of thousands of reports indicate that the rif 
program has been an important factor in increased library circula- 
tion, rising reading scores, and improved reading habits of young 
people. 

Headquarters for this nationwide reading motivation effort is 
the RIF office in Washington, D.C. This year its staff made site 
visits and held workshops for volunteers in thirty-seven states, 
provided thousands of hours of technical assistance by telephone 
and letter, and negotiated special services and substantial book 
discounts for rif projects. To serve local projects better, rif recently 
organized an ad hoc committee of book suppliers and rif repre- 
sentatives to advise rif on trends in juvenile literature, ways to 
promote reading, and other matters of interest to the local 
programs. 

The book industry frequently includes rif in its own promotion 
activities. For example. Western Pubhshing Company, as part of 
the fortieth anniversary of Golden Books, made a contribution to 
RIF from the proceeds of its sales of A Treasury of Little Golden 
Books. And Waldenbooks, the largest book retailer in the United 
States, has contributed, over the last two years, a public-service 
advertisement for rif in the company's Christmas mail-order cata- 
logue, run as an insert in Time (1981) and Newsweek (1982). 

To assist local projects in recruiting volunteers and enlisting 
community support, rif has produced a new film that looks at the 
effects of illiteracy on the family, the workplace, and the nation's 
defense, and explores ways in which the community can work with 
RIF to promote reading. Produced through a grant from the Mattel 
Foundation (matched by grants from several corporations and 
other foundations), the film includes appearances by Mrs. Elliot 



344 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Richardson; Mrs. George Bush; Mrs. Charles Robb; Dr. Ernest 
Boyer, president of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement 
of Teaching; Mrs. Floretta McKenzie, superintendent of schools in 
Washington, D.C.; and Dr. James Hennigar, superintendent of 
schools in Madison, Maine. 

Reading Is Fundamental also makes available to volunteers 
some twenty publications and aids, including three volumes of 
a RIF Book of Ideas on the subjects of fundraising, book selection, 
and reading motivation activities; a technical assistance newsletter; 
and several bilingual brochures, including one for migrant worker 
projects. Much of rif's technical-assistance literature is produced 
through private grants. For example, the National Home Library 
Foundation recently funded a brochure for rif projects to use in 
recruiting and training volunteers. And a joint venture with Gen- 
eral Sportwear Company, a manufacturer of clothing for children, 
has enabled rif to produce a brochure to be used by parents to 
help their children read. 

A major program to develop materials and methods that parents 
can use to encourage reading in the home was launched this year 
through a grant from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur 
Foundation. For the first stage of the project, rif conducted a 
nationwide survey to see how best to help parents motivate their 
children to read. 

The survey was conducted by mail questionnaires, personal 
interviews, telephone interviews, and group meetings, and was 
directed to rif project directors and a broad audience of parents. 

The outgrowth of this survey is the developing Parents' Services 
arm of the rif organization. The first of these services — a prototype 
publication for parents — was tested in the fall of 1983. 

In 1983 Mrs. Elliot Richardson, rif chairman, welcomed Ralph 
Rinzler, the Smithsonian's Assistant Secretary for Public Service, 
to the rif Board of Directors. Rinzler replaced Julian Euell as the 
Smithsonian representative to the board. 

To pay tribute to rif's late founder and chairman, Margaret 
Craig McNamara, who died in February 1981, rif's board of 
directors created the Margaret McNamara Memorial Award. In 
December 1982 this award was presented to Judge Mary Conway 
Kohler, founder of Youth Tutoring Youth, at a ceremony held at 



Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. I 345 



the National Portrait Gallery and presided over by David Broder, 
syndicated columnist for the Washington Post. 

Mrs. George Bush, rif board member, presented Judge Kohler 
with a plaque noting a lifetime of work on behalf of America's 
young people. In addition, Mrs. Richardson gave the judge a 
hand-printed, limited edition of Alice in Wonderland with wood 
engravings by Barry Moser. The award event was made possible 
by grants from the trw Foundation and David Rockefeller. 

Another highlight of the year was rif's first statewide confer- 
ence on reading, where Virginia's rif coordinators, state educators, 
and businessmen met to discuss future collaboration in the promo- 
tion of literacy. The conference was held at the governor's mansion 
in Richmond and hosted by Mrs. Lynda Johnson Robb, first lady 
of Virginia and one of the first members of rif's board of directors. 

Speakers at the conference included Katherine Paterson, award- 
winning children's author, who delivered a keynote address on 
writing books for children. At the end of the day, a rif book 
distribution was held for youngsters from a nearby Richmond 
school. Norman Bridwell, children's author and illustrator, enter- 
tained both adults and children by drawing and telling stories of 
his most popular creation, "Clifford the Big Red Dog." 

So successful was the Virginia conference in focusing attention 
on reading that plans are being made to replicate it in other states. 

Educators in other countries have frequently expressed interest 
in adapting rif to their young people. This year a Voice of America 
representative interviewed rif president Ruth Graves about the 
program and later attended a rif book distribution in Virginia to 
tape the remarks of the young people. What resulted was a radio 
program on how rif promotes literacy, which was broadcast to 
African countries. 

In 1983, RIF held the largest book distribution ever — for some 
1,400 young people. This event turned out to be the high point of 
a Parents Rally for Reading, sponsored by the International Read- 
ing Association at their annual convention in Anaheim, California. 
Children, whose ages ranged from a three-month-old infant to 
junior high school students, attended. Books for the distribution 
were donated by thirteen publishers and book distributors. 

Drawing on its expertise in community-based programs to moti- 
vate reading, rif conducted a number of workshops for audiences 



346 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



of teachers, parents, school administrators, librarians, booksellers, 
and representatives of the nnedia. Among these were workshops 
at the aforementioned ira convention and at a four-day "Every- 
child"conference, sponsored by the Children's Book Council. 

The Volunteers in Education 1983 conference, held in Rhode 
Island, invited rif board members to share with conferees their 
technique for motivating youngsters through a network of volun- 
teers. Other conferences in which rif staff played a key role 
include those held by the Literacy Volunteers of America; the 
National School Volunteer Program (which sponsors rif projects 
in Dallas; Hartford, Connecticut; Syracuse, New York; New York 
City; and Marion, Massachusetts); the National Conference of the 
Public Library Association (a branch of the American Library 
Association); and the "Radio and Reading" Symposium, held at 
the Library of Congress Center for the Book. 

Reading Is Fundamental's public education campaign, carried by 
television, radio, and national magazines over the past eleven 
years, has done much to focus national attention on reading. The 
lively messages promoting reading, created by the Al Paul Lefton 
Company advertising agency and donated to rif, have received 
more than $30 million in free broadcast time and magazine space. 

U.S. Commissioners of Education since 1969, and most of the 
major educational, service, and youth organizations have endorsed 
the RIF program, including the International Reading Association, 
the National Urban League, the National Education Association, 
Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, the National Association of Elemen- 
tary School Principals, the National Association for the Education 
of Young Children, the National Catholic Educational Association, 
the American Association of School Administrators, the Associa- 
tion for Library Services to Children in the American Library As- 
sociation, the Boys' Clubs of America, the Girl Scouts of America, 
and Campfire, Inc. 

Since the first pilot program was launched in the District of 
Columbia in 1966, rif has received generous support from the pri- 
vate sector. Today, more than fifty major corporations, founda- 
tions, labor unions, and organizations support the program. 

In 1976 RIF received support from the public sector as well when 
Congress, noting the success of rif's self-help approach, elected to 
create the Inexpensive Book Distribution Program and modeled it 



Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. I 347 



on RiF. Funds from this program, which rif operates through a 
contract with the U.S. Department of Education, enable rif to 
match local project funds for the purchase of books for children. 

This partnership between the public and private sector was duly 
noted in a recent speech by the President's Advisor for Com- 
munity Affairs, Virginia Knauer, who described rif as a "success- 
ful public/private venture which succeeds in overcoming many of 
the literacy problems facing the United States." 

In the wake of the many recent studies highlighting the problem 
of reading among our young people, there is an ever-burgeoning 
demand for rif's services, rif's key priorities for the forthcoming 
year are to try to meet those demands to the extent that funds 
permit, to expand its outreach to more American communities, and 
to work with parents to promote reading. 



348 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Smithsonian Year . 198^ 



WOODROW WILSON 

INTERNATIONAL CENTER 

FOR SCHOLARS 

JAMES H. BILLINGTON, DIRECTOR 



The Wilson Center — with the Kennedy Center for the Performing 
Arts and the National Gallery of Art — is one of three institutions 
with mixed trust/public funding created by the Congress within 
the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., fulfilling a na- 
tional mission under a board appointed by the President of the 
United States. The Wilson Center is an active workshop and 
switchboard for scholarship at the highest levels. Since its opening 
thirteen years ago this fall, it has gained widespread recognition for 
the work of its fellows in mining the scholarly riches of Washing- 
ton, for its many meetings that bring together the world of affairs 
and the world of ideas, and for its democratic openness to all 
comers through its annual fellowship competition. 

Each year, some fifty fellows are brought in through open inter- 
national competition involving ever-increasing numbers of appli- 
cants from a wide range of backgrounds, disciplines, cultures, and 
nations. A broad spectrum of ideas is, in turn, shared with a non- 
specialized national audience through The Wilson Quarterly, which 
has more subscribers than any other scholarly quarterly journal 
in the English-speaking world. 

The Wilson Center seeks to render a service to the world and to 
the Washington, D*.C., community by throwing open its core 
fellowship program to all interested individuals. Fellows are selected 
for the promise, importance, and appropriateness of their projects 
on the recommendation of broadly based academic panels outside 



349 



the center. The fellows come for limited periods, not only in the 
broadly inclusive program entitled History, Culture, and Society, 
but also in special programs in Russian and Soviet studies (the 
Kennan Institute), Latin American studies, international security 
studies. East Asia studies, and a program in American society and 
politics. Each program is directed by a scholar on the staff. 

Following its mandate to symbolize and strengthen the fruitful 
relation between the worlds of learning and of public affairs, thq 
center sponsors conferences and seminars on topics of special cur- 
rent interest to both worlds. In 1983, for example, the center 
brought together scholars from many different disciplines, mem- 
bers of Congress, representatives of the executive branch, busi- 
nessmen, journalists, military experts, writers, politicians, educa- 
tors, and diplomats to consider a variety of issues, examine current 
questions, enjoy celebrations, and participate in evaluative discus- 
sions. 

The center sponsored a major conference on September 21-23 
on "German-U.S. Relations and the Role of the Federal Republic 
in Europe and the World." Forty participants from Germany and 
the United States attended, including: Professor Gordon Craig, 
J. E. Wallace Sterling Professor of the Humanities, Stanford Uni- 
versity; Kurt Biedenkopf, former national chairman of the cdu; 
Peter Corterier, state secretary for foreign affairs under Chancellor 
Helmut Schmidt; Elisabeth Noelle-Neumann, Germany's leading 
pollster; Horst Teltschik, national security adviser to Chancellor 
Helmut Kohl; Senator Bill Bradley; Donald Rumsfeld, president 
and chief executive officer, G. D. Searle Corporation, and former 
U.S. secretary of defense; Senator Paul Sarbanes; James Schle- 
singer, senior adviser. Center for Strategic and International 
Studies, Georgetown University, and former U.S. secretary of 
defense. Senator Howard Baker and Undersecretary of State 
Lawrence Eagleburger addressed participants at the opening dinner. 
A book, containing several discussion papers prepared for the 
conference, will be published sometime next year. 

The center's Latin American Program held sessions of an Inter- 
American Dialogue in the spring and published its report. The 
Americas at a Crossroads, in both Spanish and Portuguese, as well 
as English. Sol M. Linowitz, former U.S. ambassador to the Orga- 
nization of American States (oas) and Panama Canal Treaties 



350 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




President Yitzhak Navon of Israel spoke on "Israel's Peace with Egypt: 
Achievements, Problems, and Prospects" at the Woodrow Wilson Interna- 
tional Center for Scholars. Shown here, froin left to right, are Moshe Arens, 
Israeli Ambassador to the United States; James H. Billington, director of the 
Wilson Center; President Navon; and William J. Baroody, Jr., chairman of 
the Wilson Center Board of Trustees. 



negotiator, and Galo Plaza, former secretary general of the oas and 
former president of Ecuador, cochaired the meetings. 

A two-day conference, arranged by the center's East Asia Pro- 
gram, helped the United States Information Agency define the 
subject "artificial intelligence'Vintelligent systems," the central 
theme for the United States pavilion at the Expo '85 World's Fair 
on technology and man, in Tsukuba, Japan. Among the speakers 
were: Roger C. Schank, director. Artificial Intelligence Project, 
Yale University; Harry E. Pople, Jr., codirector. Decision Systems 
Laboratory, University of Pittsburgh; Michael Arbib, director. 
Center for Systems Neuroscience, University of Massachusetts; 
and John Seely Brown, head. Cognitive and Instructional Sciences, 
Xerox Palo Alto Research Center. The evening address, "Reflec- 
tions on National Character and Intelligent Systems," was given 
by James J. Needham, ambassador, commissioner of the United 
States pavilion at Expo '85. 

Max M. Kampelman, member and former chairman of the 
center's board of trustees and chairman of the United States dele- 
gation to the Madrid Conference on Security and Cooperation in 
Europe, was honored at a dinner at which the speakers were the 
late Henry Jackson, U.S. senator from Washington, and Jeane J. 
Kirkpatrick, U.S. permanent representative to the United Nations. 

The center's fellows continue to come from all over the world, 
from many disciplines, and from many areas of the United States. 
Among its 1983 fellows and guest scholars were Cyril E. Black, 
director. Center of International Studies, Princeton University; 
Michael Confino, Samuel Rubin Professor of Russian and East 
European History, Tel Aviv University; Walter Reich, resident 
psychiatrist. National Institute of Mental Health; Ivan Berend, 
chairman. Department of Economic History, Karl Marx University 
of Economics, Budapest; Carl Ludwig Holtfrerich, chairman. De- 
partment of Economic and Social History, University of Frankfurt; 
Tadeusz Kowalik, associate professor. Institute of the History of 
Science, Education and Technology, Polish Academy of Science, 
Warsaw; Isidore Oghenerhuele Okpewho, senior lecturer in Eng- 
lish, University of Ibadan; Gene Harold Outka, Dwight Professor 
of Philosophy and Christian Ethics, Yale University; Carlos Fuen- 
tes, Mexican novelist; Theodore Friend, former president; Swarth- 
more College; Hahn-Been Lee, chairman of the board, Korea 



352 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Seoul; Lawrence W. 
Levine, professor of history. University of California, Berkeley; 
and Michel Crozier, senior research professor. Centre National de la 
Recherche Scientifique, Centre de Sociologie des Organizations, 
Paris. 

The result of this broad and heterogeneous mix of fellows is an 
intellectual life greater than the sum of its parts: the collegial 
atmosphere provides an opportunity for learning and communi- 
cation that transcends national and academic boundaries for the 
benefit of all. 



Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars I 353 



Smiihsonian Year • 198} 



JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER 
FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 

ROGER L. STEVENS, CHAIRMAN 



On September 1, 1958, President Dwight D. Eisenhower signed a 
number of bills into law at his Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, farm. 
Among them was the "National Cultural Center Act," a law 
which had attracted little public notice outside the District of 
Columbia when it was passed by Congress a few weeks earlier. 
This piece of legislation, the act authorizing what is now the 
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, signaled a 
revolutionary step by the United States government twenty-five 
years ago — recognition that the performing arts in America war- 
ranted a proper home in this nation's capital. 

Today, the Kennedy Center enters its thirteenth season of 
operation as a self-supporting, independent performing-arts orga- 
nization under the direction of a board of trustees whose citizen 
members are appointed by the President of the United States. 
Each year the center reports its activities as an independent bureau 
of the Smithsonian Institution through Smithsonian Year, includ- 
ing the programming presented in the center's five theaters by its 
affiliates: the National Symphony Orchestra, the American Film 
Institute, and the Washington Opera. 

The Kennedy Center continues to operate under a specific 
congressional mandate to present a broad array of performing-arts 
programming and to sponsor educational and public-service activi- 
ties in the public interest. The center receives, however, no direct 
federal appropriation to carry out its mandate and, therefore, 
annually raises millions of dollars from private sources to meet its 
goals and balance its budget. 



354 



Well into its second decade as a focus for the performing arts 
in America, the Kennedy Center launched two major endeavors 
during 1983 that signal new vitality for its future. A major grant 
of $670,000 from the Robert Wood Johnson, Jr. Charitable Trust 
completed efforts to secure $1.85 million to carry out a major 
renovation of the twelve-year old Opera House. This grant pro- 
vided a necessary match to a $400,000 challenge grant pledged 
earlier by the Kresge Foundation. The balance of funding for the 
Opera House renovation was provided from, among others, the 
Pew Memorial Trust, the Atlantic Richfield Foundation, and 
benefit events held at Kennedy Center during 1983. Finally, in 
August 1983, the Kennedy Center launched the installation of a 
major centralized computer system to automate its accounting, 
payroll, marketing, and fundraising operations, made possible in 
part by major contributions from Digital Equipment Corporation 
for hardware and American Digital Systems Corporation for 
software. 

After twelve years of operation and expansion in its program- 
ming activities, the Kennedy Center will be able to go forward in 
its second decade with its principal theaters refurbished and 
administrative operations equipped with state-of-the-art technol- 
ogy. Unlike other national cultural centers, the Kennedy Center 
realized each of these major achievements through private-sector 
support in recognition of its status as a world-renowned institution 
that receives limited government assistance. Twenty-five years 
after President Eisenhower signaled a quiet revolution by commit- 
ting America to the recognition of music, poetry, drama, and 
dance as basic to American life, the Kennedy Center continues to 
enrich America's cultural well-being while operating as a unique, 
American cultural institution. 



Performing Arts Programming 

The 1982-83 season at the Kennedy Center was atended by 1.3 
million people in the Eisenhower and Terrace Theaters, Opera 
House, and Concert Hall. Programming highlights are described 
in the sections that follow. 



John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 355 



DRAMA AND MUSICAL THEATER 

This season exemplified the balance of new and classic works that 
the Kennedy Center's theater programming strives to achieve. 
Once again, as in seasons past, performers of international stature 
were featured in plays and musicals on the stages of the Eisen- 
hower and Terrace Theaters and the Opera House. Jane Alexander, 
Peter Falk, Anne Jackson, Al Pacino, and Eli Wallach starred in 
new and contemporary plays: William Gibson's Monday after the 
Miracle; the American premieres of Michael Frayn's farce. Make 
and Break, and Murray Schisgal's Twice around the Park; and the 
acclaimed Circle in the Square production of David Mamet's 
American Buffalo. 

The revivals demonstrated the charm and immediacy that the 
past can hold for the present. Jason Robards, Jr., Elizabeth Wilson, 
Colleen Dewhurst, and James Coco graced Kaufman and Hart's 
You Can't Take It with You. The Kennedy Center's landmark 
revival of Rodgers and Hart's legendary musical. On Your Toes, 
won a Tony award for its star, ballerina Natalia Makarova. The 
Opera House theatrical season also included Hal Holbrook's Mark 
Twain Tonight, major revivals of Gershwin's Porgy and Bess, Kern 
and Hammerstein's Showboat, Noel Coward's Private Lives with 
Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton, and finally. Cicely Tyson in 
Emlyn Williams's The Corn is Green. 

The theatrical season in the Terrace Theater offered the exuber- 
ance of the Acting Company's production of Shakespeare's seldom 
performed Pericles, a rare appearance by the National Theater of 
the Deaf in Parzival, and the whacky and often biting humor of 
Sears and Williams's Greater Tuna. 

DANCE 

More than twenty Washington premieres were presented during 
the 1982-83 ballet season in the Opera House, marking a season 
which demonstrated the artistic scope and talent of American 
dance companies. The acclaimed New York City Ballet returned 
to Washington with ten local premieres, including highlights from 
the New York Tchaikovsky Festival and Stravinsky Centennial 
Celebration. Mozartiana and Ballade, choreographed by the late 
George Balanchine, and Jerome Robbins's Gershwin Concerto 
were outstanding critical and popular successes of particular note. 



356 / Smithsonian Year 1983 




Tony-award winner Natalia Makarova performs in the "Princess Zenobia" 
ballet sequence in the Kennedy Center's 1982 revival of "On Your Toes." 
Beloio: tenor Placido Domingo is greeted after his benefit concert by Mrs. 
George Bush, as Vice-President Bush looks on. 




The American Ballet Theatre is usually presented by the Ken- 
nedy Center for an extended December engagement. Unresolved 
labor difficulties forced cancellation of the holiday engagement, 
but the company was able to be rescheduled for a one-week 
appearance in January 1983. Three Washington company pre- 
mieres highlighted the abbreviated engagement, the most notable 
being a revival of Balanchine's Sinfonie Concertante. The latter 
work had not been staged in over twenty years and thus its pres- 
entation warranted international press coverage. 

The Dance Theater of Harlem, presented by the Washington 
Performing Arts Society, and the Joffrey Ballet returned for their 
annual engagements featuring, respectively, new productions of 
Nijinska's Les Biches and a revival of Anthony Tudor's Offen- 
bach in the Underworld. The Kennedy Center was particularly 
pleased to be able to present Ballet West, one of America's most 
important regional ballet companies, in its premiere Washington 
appearance. The company was acclaimed by audiences and critics 
for its works by young American choreographers and for its most 
unusual version of the full-length classic. Swan Lake, in its only 
presentation of the 1982-83 season. 

Two important foreign ballet companies appeared during the 
1982-83 season. Roland Petit's Ballet de Marseille made its Ken- 
nedy Center and Washington debut in a two-week engagement 
that featured American premieres of Petit's Notre Dame de Paris, 
a full-length dramatic ballet based on Victor Hugo's The Hunch- 
back of Notre Dame, and also Petit's Proust: Les Intermittences du 
Coeur. Finally, Rudolf Nureyev appeared with the Zurich Ballet 
in the American premieres of his full-length staging of Manfred 
and Don Quixote. 

Dance America, presented jointly by the Kennedy Center and 
the Washington Performing Arts Society, utilized all three of the 
center's theaters — Opera House, Terrace, and Eisenhower. Repre- 
senting the multitudinous variety of dance in this country, other 
than ballet. Dance America ranged from the Alvin Alley Company 
to the pure flamenco style of Raquel Pefia and her Spanish dance 
company. 

The most "classical" modern dance company represented in the 
series was the Paul Taylor Dance Company, which enjoyed a 
resounding one- week success in the Eisenhower Theater; two 



358 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Washington premieres were offered, Taylor's Lost Found Lost, and 
Tidings. The postmodern movement in dance was represented by 
two companies, both performing in the Terrace Theater: the 
popular Laura Dean Company and the less-well-known Kenneth 
Rinker. 

Making its Kennedy Center debut was the North Carolina 
Dance Theatre, a contemporary-ballet company, whose repertory 
ranged from the pure neoclassicism of George Balanchine to the 
pure postmodern work of Senta Driver. 

The Raquel Pefia Spanish Dance Company, which also appeared 
in the Terrace, is a Washington, D.C.-based company whose per- 
formances were sold out. 

The Alvin Ailey Company appeared in the Opera House for one 
week and offered seven Washington premieres during the run, 
introducing two works by a striking new American choreographer, 
Elisa Monte — Pigs and Fishes and Treading — both works receiving 
tremendous acclaim from both audiences and critics. 

MUSIC 

Two very different recitals of major artistic importance marked 
the highpoints of a rich, diverse musical season at the Kennedy 
Center. World-renowned tenor Placido Domingo made his Ken- 
nedy Center debut in March 1983 in a benefit solo recital concert 
to raise funds to renovate the Opera House. On May 25, 1983, 
Isaac Stern and Eugene Istomin performed a program of Beethoven 
sonatas for violin and piano in the Terrace Theater, dedicated to 
the memory of their friend, a former trustee of the Kennedy 
Center, the late Supreme Court Justice Abe Fortas. The concert 
was performed as a benefit for the Abe Fortas Memorial Fund, an 
endowment established by the trustees of the center, that will 
make possible a series of Terrace Theater concerts by eminent 
chamber musicians. These 1983-84 performances mark the first 
such endowed series at the Kennedy Center. 

Justice Fortas was particularly devoted to chamber music and 
its integral presence in the Terrace Theater development and pro- 
gramming. The fourtK season of chamber music in the theater 
was critically acclaimed by the Washington Post. The Terrace 
Concerts in 1982-83 included performances by pianists James 
Tocco, Annie Fischer, and John Browning; song recitals by Mar- 



John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 359 



tina Arroyo, Paul Plishka, and Alan Titus; ensemble recitals by the 
Guarneri String Quartet, the Norman Scribner Choir, and the 
Prague Chamber Orchestra; sonata recitals by violinists Cho Liang 
Lin, Miriam Fried, and Sergiu Luca and cellist Lynn Harrell; and 
chamber recitals by the Beaux Arts Trio, the New Zurich Quartet, 
the Annapolis Brass Quintet, and Peter Serkin with Cecile Licad, 
Ida Kavafian, and Rudolf Vrbsky. The third American Composers 
Series experienced a major growth in audience. Composers honored 
this year were Virgil Thomson, John Cage, Milton Babbitt, Lukas 
Foss, Ralph Shapey, and William Schuman. 

The third summer chamber music festival. Summer Sounds, in- 
cluded the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra conducted by Pinchas 
Zukerman, with soloists Marielle and Katia LaBeque, piano duo; 
Yo-Yo Ma, cello; and Pinchas Zukerman, violin. The second 
presentation in the festival was the Mostly Mozart Festival 
Orchestra from Lincoln Center with soloists Stephen Burns, 
trumpet; Horacio Gutierrez, piano; Dimitry Sitkovetsky, violin; 
Garrick Ohlsson, piano; Raphael Hilly er, viola; Emanuel Ax, 
piano; Nadja Solemo-Sonnenberg, violin; Lynn Harrell, cello; 
Bella Davidovich, piano; and conductors Gerard Schwarz and 
John Nelson, and one performance by the Tokyo String Quartet. 

The Friedheim Awards, which recognize American composition 
in symphonic and chamber music in alternating years, was de- 
scribed this year by Joseph McLellan of the Washington Post as 
"the only significant competition in existence for new American 
music." The first-place winner for 1982 was Gundaris Pone for his 
composition "Avanti!" The awards honor the late Arthur Fried- 
heim and are supported, in part, by a grant from the Eric Fried- 
heim Foundation. The final competition performance was again 
broadcast by National Public Radio. 

Theater Chamber Players, Young Concert Artists, and the 
Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center returned for their 
annual concert series in the Terrace Theater and Concert Hall. 

The Washington Opera and the National Symphony Orchestra 
each expanded their Kennedy Center season during 1982-83. The 
former presented seven productions in the Opera House and 
Terrace Theater in an eleven-week season. The National Symphony 
added a "pops" concert series and a summer season in the Concert 
Hall in a thirty-six-week performance series. The Metropolitan 



360 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Opera returned to the center for its fourth consecutive season with 
seven productions, including Der Rosenkav alter, Adriana Lecouv- 
reur, Boris Godunov, La Boheme, Lucia de Lammermoor, Macbeth, 
and La Forza del Destino. 

The annual Kennedy Center Christmas Festival was highlighted 
by a specially televised program produced by the Kennedy Center 
and WQED-TV, Pittsburgh, for Kennedy Center Tonight! with 
performances by Leontyne Price, Paula Robison, Eliot Fisk, and 
Norman Scribner's Choral Arts Society. As in previous years, 
there were many free public performances in the Grand Foyer, 
attended by more than 10,000 people. There was also a perfor- 
mance by the New York String Orchestra, a group composed of 
young musicians from all over the country who come together at 
Christmas for intensive training and performance under the baton 
of Alexander Schneider. "A Night in Old Vienna" was once again 
a great success that has become a Washington tradition of waltzing 
to the music of Alexander Schneider and friends in the Grand 
Foyer following the Concert Hall performance. Music critic Lon 
Tuck of the Washington Post described it as "a Public Occasion, 
like an Inaugural Ball . . . Sasha [Alexander] Schneider's show has 
evolved into Washington's most festive New Year's celebra- 
tion. . . ." 

In the popular-music tradition, in addition to the NSO "pops" 
concerts, renowned performers Frank Sinatra, Cleo Laine, Johnny 
Mathis, and Tony Bennett sang to capacity audiences in the Con- 
cert Hall. Kennedy Center Honoree, Ella Fitzgerald, headlined 
the second annual KOOL Jazz Festival, which combined more 
than 100 jazz artists and 20,000 jazz fans in a two-day celebration 
of America's own music. 

FILM 

The American Film Institute (afi) has presented film programming 
in its 224-seat theater at the Kennedy Center since 1973. In that 
time, 7,000 motion pictures have been shown to a total audience of 
more than one million people. Many of the films are drawn from 
the AFi's own motion-picture archives. The institute has, in addi- 
tion, cooperated with the Library of Congress to carry out the 
most extensive film-preservation program in the nation. 

Dedicated to preserving the heritage and advancing the art of 



John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 361 



film and television in the United States, the afi conducts activities 
around the country that work toward the achievement of three 
primary goals: to increase recognition and understanding of the 
moving image as an art form, to assure preservation of the art 
form, and to identify, develop, and encourage new talent. 

The AFi's Television and Video Services annually presents the 
National Video Festival, sponsored by Sony Corporation of Amer- 
ica, in the AFL Theater — and at the institute's California campus. 

During this year, the Exhibition Division toured several film 
series nationally, including New Hungarian Cinema, films from 
the German Democratic Republic, and a series from the British 
Film Institute. 

Several of the afi's programs are administered from its Los 
Angeles campus as well as from its offices at the Kennedy Center. 
The Center for Advanced Film Studies provides training in all 
aspects of filmmaking; the Independent Filmmaker Program ad- 
ministers grants to filmmakers across the country; and the 
Directing Workshop for Women provides training for professional 
women who wish to enter the field of feature-film directing. 

Finally, the eleventh Life Achievement Award was bestowed 
upon actor, writer, director John Huston — a tribute that recognized 
a lifetime of accomplishments acknowledged by scholars, Huston's 
peers, and the public. 



Public-Service Programming 

The Kennedy Center Act specifically directs the center's board of 
trustees to carry out a broad range of educational and public 
service programs. These congressionally-mandated purposes, 
known as the center's Section 4 responsibilities, remain virtually 
unfunded by Congress. The board of trustees once again, there- 
fore, sought private funds to fulfill this mandate in ways that 
include the national Education Program, Cultural Diversity activi- 
ties, and the subsidized presentation of theater, music, and dance 
programming as directed by Congress. More than $5 million was 
raised and allocated during 1982 for these purposes, including 500 
free- and low-admission performances and events enjoyed by 



362 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



500,000 people in Washington, D.C., and in cities around the 
country. 

SPECIALLY PRICED TICKET PROGRAM 

Since it opened in September 1971, the Kennedy Center has main- 
tained a Specially Priced Ticket Program through which tickets to 
center-produced and presented attractions are made available at 
half price to students, handicapped persons, senior citizens over 
the age of sixty-five, low-income groups, and military personnel in 
grades E-1 through E-4. The attendant costs, in terms of reduced 
revenue potential and administrative overhead, are borne by the 
center itself and are viewed as a part of its educational/public- 
service responsibility. 

During the twelve-month period ending September 30, 1983, 
82,650 tickets for attractions produced and presented by the center 
were sold at half price through the Specially Priced Ticket Pro- 
gram. The sale of these tickets at full price would have resulted in 
additional gross income to the center of $661,279. Independent 
producers are also required to participate in the program by mak- 
ing a percentage of their tickets available for sale at half price. 
During the twelve-month period ending September 30, 1983, 
combined half-price ticket sales totaled $99,490. The sale of these 
tickets at full price would have resulted in a total additional gross 
income of $1,111,001 to the center and the independent producers. 

Education Programming 

The Kennedy Center's authorizing legislation specifically directed 
the board of trustees to develop programs for children and youth 
in the performing arts. The Education Program was designed 
toward this end to provide national leadership in arts education 
and to cooperate with regional performing-arts centers and educa- 
tion networks across the country in developing and presenting 
model performances for young audiences. The program has three 
coordinated components: the Alliance for Arts Education, the 
Programs for Children and Youth, and the American College 
Theatre Festival. 

At both the state and national levels, the program seeks, by 



John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 363 



identifying and supporting exemplary arts-education projects, to 
promote incorporation of the arts into the education of every child. 
As part of this commitment, the center works closely with the 
National Committee, Arts for the Handicapped, and the National 
Information Center, Arts Education and Americans. Principal 
funding for the Education Program is provided by the U.S. Depart- 
ment of Education and the Kennedy Center Corporate Fund, with 
additional assistance from corporations, foundations, and individ- 
uals. 

ALLIANCE FOR ARTS EDUCATION 

The Alliance for Arts Education (aae) serves as a national and 
regional network for information exchange on model arts-educa- 
tion programs. Conducted with the Department of Education since 
1973, the AAE is composed of fifty-six committees: one in each of 
the fifty states, plus representation for American Samoa, the 
Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Department of Defense Dependents 
Schools World Wide Area, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, 
and the Virgin Islands. The national office is responsible for 
promoting information exchange among aae committees, providing 
technical assistance in the field of arts education upon request to 
the committees and the public, and distributing to the committees 
operation and programmatic funds. 

Each committee (usually composed of representatives from pri- 
vate and public agencies involved in arts education) sets its own 
goals, objectives, and activities. Most often, these activities focus 
on the committee's role: a forum for state and local awareness; for 
the development and implementation of statewide plans for com- 
prehensive arts education; and for providing consultant services 
to individuals and organizations conducting arts education pro- 
grams and projects. 

The national aae staff and regional chairmen provided direct 
technical assistance and consultation services to more than half 
of the AAE committees during fiscal year 1983. The national aae 
office publishes Interchange, a bimonthly arts-education news- 
paper. 

PROGRAMS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH 
The commitment of the Education Program to quality performing- 
arts programming for young people is clearly expressed in the 



364 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



goals of its Programs for Children and Youth (pcy) "to support 
arts-education programs in the schools through the medium of 
performance and to provide a variety of quality performances to 
student and general audiences." Along with the development and 
presentation of performances for young people, materials are 
provided for audiences and teachers to help integrate the perfor- 
mance experience into the student's over-all education. 

During the past season, the pcy presented nearly 500 free per- 
formances and related events to audiences of more than 400,000 
in Washington, D.C., and cities around the country. The pcy pro- 
duced a Children's Arts Series at the Kennedy Center in the fall, 
featuring professional artists performing for young people and a 
Cultural Diversity Festival during February. Performing companies 
were selected from across the United States. The pcy also published 
Artsploration, a newspaper for children, in cooperation with the 
College of Fine Arts, the University of Texas at Austin. 

"Imagination Celebration," a national children's arts festival at 
the Kennedy Center, is presented annually by the pcy, and key 
elements are replicated in selected cities throughout the United 
States. This program not only provides a model for performing-arts 
festivals for young audiences, but enables the Kennedy Center to 
contribute to the development of new works, to involve noted 
artists in performing for young people, and to serve as a catalyst 
for the development of programs for young people at performing- 
arts centers throughout the country. 

The pcy provides technical assistance and core professional 
productions for each outreach festival, featuring such well-known 
artists as Sarah Caldwell, Jacques d'Amboise, and Leon Bibb. Each 
year during the "Imagination Celebration," an Award for Excel- 
lence is presented to an outstanding artist or individual for his or 
her contribution to young people through the arts. The recipient 
of this year's award was puppeteer Shari Lewis. 

Another component of the pcy is the series of Arts Education 
Workshops offered to elementary and secondary school teachers, 
created to provide greater awareness and appreciation for all the 
art forms, thus enhancing teacher commitment to the arts in edu- 
cation. The workshops are offered annually in the fall and spring. 

In cooperation with the American College Dance Festival Asso- 
ciation, the second National College Dance Festival was held at 



John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 365 



the Kennedy Center in the spring of 1983. Colleges with strong 
dance training programs were represented by young artists. Work- 
shops were conducted by professional dancers for students and 
teachers participating in the festival. Special awards and scholar- 
ships were presented to outstanding students. 

PcY programs also received support from the Alvord Foundation, 
Mobil Oil Corporation, the McLachlen National Bank, the Eugene 
and Agnes E. Meyer foundation, and the Hertz Corporation and 
Hertz Penske, Inc., during the past year. 

AMERICAN COLLEGE THEATRE FESTIVAL 

The American College Theatre Festival (actf) is presented annually 
by the Kennedy Center to provide national recognition of the 
efforts of college and university theaters throughout the United 
States. Nearly 13,500 students and 2,500 faculty members from 
420 schools participated in actf xv. Their productions across 
the country drew audiences of more than two million. The festival 
seeks to encourage new styles of theatrical presentation and 
methods of staging, innovative approaches to the classics, original 
plays by young writers, and revivals of significant plays of the 
past. It emphasizes excellence of total production, including acting, 
directing, design, and writing. 

Nearly sixty productions were presented in twelve regional 
festivals. Of these, seven were chosen for showcase presentation 
at the two-week national festival in the Kennedy Center Terrace 
Theater: The Kid, Gallaudet College, Washington, D.C.; The 
Bulldog and the Bear, California State University, Fullerton; Buried 
Child, University of Kansas, Lawrence; Zooman and the Sign, 
North Carolina A & T State University, Greensboro; My Sister in 
This House, Centenary College, Shreveport, Louisiana; Tea and 
Sympathy, Hope College, Holland, Michigan; and The Waltz of 
the Toreadors, Portland State University, Oregon. 

The ACTF Michael Kanin Student Playwriting Award and other 
ACTF awards and scholarships in acting, theatrical design, theater 
criticism, and theater management offer students vital professional 
experience and cash awards totaling over $30,000. 

The Kennedy Center's Committee on Cultural Diversity pro- 
vided assistance to the actf to support the Black College Technical 
Assistance Project, intended to increase the participation of the 



366 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



historically black colleges and universities in the national festival. 
The project was initiated in 1980 in order to allow project staff to 
work with a number of the colleges on entry productions for the 
fifteenth annual actf competition. At the conclusion of the second 
full year of the project, national actf judges awarded North Caro- 
line A & T State University's production of Zooman and the Sign 
a place in national showcase festival at the Kennedy Center. 

The American College Theatre Festival is presented and pro- 
duced by the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in 
cooperation with the University and College Theatre Association, 
a division of the American Theatre Association and is supported 
in part by the Amoco companies and the Kennedy Center Corporate 
Fund. 



Cultural Diversity Programming 

The National Committee on Cultural Diversity in the Performing 
Arts serves as a standing advisory body on minority affairs to the 
chairman of the center's board of trustees. Its members are com- 
poser Roque Cordero, dancer/choreographer Chuck Davis, vocalist 
Ella Fitzgerald, actress Cicely Tyson, pianist Andre Watts, play- 
wright Richard Wesley, and Kennedy Center trustees Marjorie M. 
Lawson and Henry Strong. Dr. Archie L. Buffkins, who serves as 
president of the committee, also worked closely this year with the 
center's Education Program to plan a Cultural Diversity Festival 
during February which received support through the Cultural 
Diversity Committee. 

Major support for the committee's projects is provided through 
the Kennedy Center Corporate Fund. Highlights of the year in- 
cluded support for a major revival of Porgy and Bess and more 
than forty grants to metropolitan Washington artists and organi- 
zations. In addition,^ Dr. Buffkins offered technical assistance, 
marketing and audience development expertise to artists and orga- 
nizations, primarily to foster young black, Hispanic, and Asian 
talent. 



lohn F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 367 



Friends of the Kennedy Center 

The Friends of the Kennedy Center was authorized in 1966 by 
the board of trustees as a nationwide, self-supporting auxihary 
of volunteers and donor members. As a result of an intensive 
drive to increase community and national involvement with the 
Kennedy Center, the Friends' membership has grown from 6,000 
to over 16,000 in the last two years through the use of direct mail, 
special membership events, and personal solicitation. The Friends 
Membership Committee, a group of volunteers organized to recruit 
new members, coordinates many of the special events. 

In the Washington metropolitan area, 300 Friends volunteers 
contributed more than 65,000 hours of service during the past 
year to provide visitor and information services 365 days a year. 
The volunteers staffed the Friends Gift Shop, provided special 
visitor assistance to the handicapped, and administered the Spe- 
cially Priced Ticket Program for senior citizens, students, and the 
handicapped. Volunteer guides offer free tours every day of the 
year to more than 6,000 people who visit the Kennedy Center on 
an average day. Tours are also conducted in several foreign lan- 
guages to accommodate the large number of visitors from abroad. 
Group tours, including those arranged through congressional offi- 
ces, are also offered on a daily basis. 

Kennedy Center News, published bimonthly by the Friends, 
serves as the institutional public-relations newsletter for the 
Kennedy Center and is received by thousands of Friends members, 
members of Congress, arts organizations, government agencies, 
and libraries across the country. 

The Friends by-laws were revised in April 1983 to reflect the 
growth and changing needs of the organization. The number of 
elected members to the National Council, the governing body of 
the Friends, was increased from six to twelve, to encourage more 
direct public participation in the center. The new position of ex- 
ecutive director, to administer the day-to-day operations of the 
Friends, was also created. 

Revenues from the Friends membership and gift shops help 
support the public service and national outreach programs of the 
Kennedy Center, such as the American College Theatre Festival; 



368 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



the "Imagination Celebration" festivals for children; the National 
Committee, Arts for the Handicapped; organ recitals and demon- 
strations free to the public; special tours of the Kennedy Center 
as part of the annual summer 4-H program in Washington, D.C.; 
and the Specially Priced Ticket Program. 

Mrs. Elizabeth Polk Guest served as chairman of the Friends of 
the Kennedy Center through September 1983. 

Performing Arts Library 

Completing its fourth full year of operation in fiscal year 1983, 
the Performing Arts Library continued to establish itself as an 
important link in the chain of library and information resources 
in the performing arts with scholars, artists, writers, broadcasters, 
the Kennedy Center administration, and other libraries and infor- 
mation centers. 

Nearly 20,000 patrons used the Performing Arts Library this 
year, with increasing assistance provided by telephone to users 
around the nation. A revised schedule of opening hours, begun late 
in fiscal year 1982, has allowed Kennedy Center audiences to use 
the library four evenings per week (Tuesday through Friday). 

The Kiralfy Bros' Present . . ., an exhibition of posters from 
American theatrical spectacles from the 1880s to the 1910s, went 
on view in the Performing Arts Library reading room in October 
1982. The announcement of the exhibition that appeared in the 
Library of Congress Information Bulletin of October 29, 1982, 
detailed the achievements of these Hungarian immigrant theatrical 
entrepreneurs. Descendants of the Kiralfy brothers from as far 
away as Illinois and Florida visited the exhibition and reacquainted 
themselves with with the brothers' achievements and with other 
branches of their family. 

Plans were begun in fiscal year 1983 for five future exhibitions: 
one in observance of the 100th anniversary of the Metropolitan 
Opera; another honoring the fiftieth anniversary of Gershwin's 
Porgy and Bess; and displays of various forms of dance notation; 
posters of early Hollywood musicals; and sheet music, showing 
the rise of the American popular song. 

International visitors to the Performing Arts Library included 



John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 369 



librarians, arts administrators, theater directors, and playwrights 
from Poland, Austria, France, Iceland, and Uganda. 



Kennedy Center Honors 

The Kennedy Center Honors were first awarded by the board of 
trustees in 1978 to recognize lifelong achievement by this nation's 
performing artists. The Honors Gala is an annual event and the 
center's most important fundraising benefit: the 1982 gala raised 
$400,000 in net proceeds to support Kennedy Center programming. 
The 1982 honorees — George Abbott, Lillian Gish, Benny Goodman, 
Gene Kelly, and Eugene Ormandy — joined a distinguished group 
of artists who have been so recognized by their fellow Americans. 
The 1982 Honors Gala in the Opera House was preceded by a 
reception at the White House, hosted by President and Mrs. Ronald 
Reagan. Among the outstanding performers who participated in 
the evening's tributes, later broadcast by cbs on Christmas evening, 
were Claudette Colbert, Cyd Charisse, Peggy Lee, Isaac Stern, 
Lionel Hampton, and Gregory Hines. 



Kennedy Center Broadcasts 

The center's highlight of the year on television was the annual 
broadcast of the Kennedy Center Honors on December 25, 1982, 
over the cbs network. The center was represented on public tele- 
vision by the third season of "Kennedy Center Tonight!" Funding 
for the series has been provided by the Shell Companies Founda- 
tion, with additional funding from the Corporation for Public 
Broadcasting. 

This season of "Kennedy Center Tonight!" featured four pro- 
grams: "Christmas at Kennedy Center," "My Father, Stravinsky," 
"Eubie Blake: A Century of Music," and "Medea" with Tony- 
award-winner Zoe Caldwell repeating her acclaimed stage per- 
formance in the Robinson Jeffers version of this classic play. 
During the summer of 1983, the Public Broadcasting System broad- 



370 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



cast "Encore!" — weekly rebroadcasts of three seasons of "Kennedy 
Center Tonight!" programs. 

Finally, the uso celebrated Bob Hope's eightieth birthday with 
a television broadcast on the nbc network, staged in the Opera 
House, which featured a score of performers from stage, television, 
and film. 

Funding 

The Kennedy Center's operating budget for 1983, from its theater 
operations, concession income, and contributions, exceeded $23 
million. More than $5 million was raised from private sources in 
order for the center to fulfill its Section 4 mandate as a national 
performing arts center and to sustain a year-round calendar of 
educational and public-service programming. 

The National Park Service is responsible for much of the mainte- 
nance, and for ensuring the security, of the Kennedy Center, 
which, as a presidential memorial, is open to the public without 
charge every day of the year. The center, however, must reimburse 
the National Park Service with a 23.8 percent pro rata share of 
maintenance, utility, and housekeeping expenses allocated to its 
operation as a performing-arts center. Beyond its 1983 reimburse- 
ment to the National Park Service of nearly $1 million for its 
apportioned share of costs, the center, in addition, bears the com- 
plete cost of maintaining its five theaters and extensive backstage 
and office facilities, an expense which totaled an additional $400 
thousand for 1983.. 

Since the Kennedy Center opened in 1971, foundations, corpora- 
tions, and individuals have contributed more than $27 million to 
its support. A major portion of the private support has been 
provided by the Corporate Fund for the Performing Arts at 
Kennedy Center. 

The Corporate Fund was organized in 1977 by the principal 
officers of thirty-six major American corporations and its currently 
represents nearly 279 corporations committed to the support of 
the national cultural center. Funds contributed to the Corporate 
Fund enable the Kennedy Center to extend its national outreach 
through programming and public-service activities, to foster new 

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts I 371 



works, and to offer performing arts programming at reduced prices 
or, in many instances, at no admission charge whatsoever. 

Participation in the Corporate Fund is open to any corporation 
that contributes to the center. James H. Evans, chairman of Union 
Pacific Corporation, served as chairman of the 1983 Corporate 
Fund. The members of the Board of Governors and a listing of 
fund contributions received during the past year are named in 
Appendix 8. 

Board of Trustees 

The Kennedy Center is independently administered as a bureau 
of the Smithsonian Institution by a board of trustees, thirty of 
whose members are citizens appointed by the President of the 
United States for ten-year overlapping terms. The remaining fifteen 
members are legislatively designated ex officio representatives of 
the legislative branch and executive departments of the federal 
government. Members of the Kennedy Center Board of Trustees 
are listed in Appendix 1. 

The President's Advisory Committee on the Arts 

The Advisory Committee, under the chairmanship of Herbert L. 
Hutner of California, includes membership from forty-three states 
and the District of Columbia. It is authorized by the Kennedy 
Center Act to assist the board of trustees. 

During the past year the committee attended four meetings at 
the center; its members concentrated their discussions on private 
fundraising and national outreach programs. 

On May 19, 1983, the Advisory Committee sponsored a gala 
benefit at the center, cochaired by the representatives from Texas 
and Michigan. On August 26-28, 1983, the Rhode Island repre- 
sentative sponsored a benefit weekend in Newport. Advisory Com- 
mittee members and their guests from around the country attended, 
as well as individuals from the Newport area. A list of members 
of the President's Advisory Committee on the Arts during 1982-83 
appears in Appendix 1. 

372 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Smithsonian Year • 198} 



NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 



J. CARTER BROWN, DIRECTOR 



The National Gallery of Art, although formally established as a 
bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an autonomous and sep- 
arately administered organization. It is governed by its own board 
of trustees, the ex officio members of which are the Chief Justice 
of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the 
Treasury, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. Of 
the five general trustees, Paul Mellon continued to serve as chair- 
man of the board, with John R. Stevenson and Carlisle H. Humel- 
sine as president and vice-president, respectively. Also continuing 
on the board were Dr. Franklin D. Murphy and Ruth Carter 
Stevenson. 

During the year, visitors entering both of the gallery buildings 
numbered 4,893,795 and included the President and Mrs. Ronald 
Reagan, Her Royal Highness The Princess Margaret and Her 
Royal Highness The Duchess of Gloucester, Prince Hans Adam of 
Liechtenstein, President Ramalho Eanes of Portugal, and Prime 
Minister Pierre Trudeau of Canada. 

A new museum-within a-museum, containing more than 40,000 
square feet of new exhibition space, opened in the west end of the 
ground floor of the West Building. The new graphics, decorative 
arts, and small sculpture galleries were made possible by the 
removal of administrative offices to the East Building. The long- 
closed Seventh Street entrance to the West Building was restored 
to its original appearance and opened to the public, allowing access 
directly to the new galleries and, through the ground floor, to the 



373 



Fourth Street entrance. Fourteen new galleries devoted to the 
exhibition of prints and drawings allow an increase in the average 
number of graphics exhibited in a year from 300 to 1,000. Some 
1,000 small bronzes, long in storage, are now on view, as well as 
the gallery's collection of decorative arts, including the beautiful 
Chinese porcelains. New installations of sculpture, tapestries, and 
sixty-two American naive paintings from the more than 300 given 
to the gallery over the years by Colonel and Mrs. Edgar William 
Garbisch offer the visitor to the West Building ground floor a rich 
variety of art forms. 

During the year, the programs developed and distributed by 
the gallery's Department of Extension Programs reached an esti- 
mated audience of 97,341,022, nearly double that of the previous 
year. This figure reflects a 300 percent increase in orders for video- 
cassette programs and a 100 percent increase in viewers of educa- 
tional and public television programs. Foremost among suppliers 
of these programs to millions of viewers in communities in every 
state in the nation is the Appalachian Community Service Network 
(ACSN — "The Learning Network"), which accounts for well over 
half of the total public/educational television audience for fiscal 
year 1983. Twenty new agencies joined the long-term Regional 
Extended Loan system. 

A film developed and produced by the department, Picasso: The 
Saltimbanques, won a "Golden Mercury" award from the Venice 
International Documentary/Technological Film Festival. Two short 
films on Gauguin and Picasso, and a thirty-minute film on the 
American sculptor David Smith, were produced during the year 
and added to the department's inventory for distribution, as was 
a film on the gallery's founder, The Quiet Collector: Andrew W. 
Mellon Remembered, which was produced through the kind 
generosity of Conoco as a public service. 

Twenty-two scholars were in residence at the Center for Ad- 
vanced Study in the Visual Arts for varying periods during the 
year. Included for the first time were four predoctoral fellows. The 
Kress Professor for academic year 1982-83 was Harold Wethey, 
distinguished historian of Spanish and ItaUan art and professor 
emeritus at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Washington 
area art historians were invited to the center for twenty-eight 
meetings: ten colloquia in which papers were presented by the 



374 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



senior members; six seminars in various fields of art history and 
related disciplines; four meetings to hear area art historians discuss 
their current research; four lectures presented by scholars from 
the United States and abroad; and four symposia, two of which, 
on Claude Lorrain and Raphael, were held in conjunction with 
exhibitions at the gallery. The second annual symposium cospon- 
sored with the Department of Art at Johns Hopkins University 
in Baltimore focused on Manet, and the Thirteenth Annual Middle 
Atlantic Symposium in the History of Art was cosponsored by the 
Department of Art at the University of Maryland. 

Two large and important gifts were added to the gallery's 
collections during the year. Eight American and French paintings 
from the collection of John Hay Whitney were gifts from the 
charitable trust established by the late publisher and diplomat 
during his lifetime. Whitney was a trustee of the gallery from 
1961 to 1979. Included in the gift were a fight scene by Bellows, 
an intimate family scene by Eakins, a Whistler, two Derains, an 
imaginary jungle landscape by Rousseau, and the first paintings 
by Hopper and Cross to enter the collections. 

Paul Mellon gave the gallery a large collection of fifty paintings, 
twenty-four sculptures, and nineteen prints and drawings by nine- 
teenth- and twentieth-century European and American artists 
which he and Mrs. Mellon had collected over thirty years. Im- 
pressionist and postimpressionist works include six paintings by 
Monet and ten by Boudin, two works by both Gauguin and 
Cassatt, and one each by Bazille, van Gogh, Renoir, and Seurat. 
Five paintings and nineteen prints and drawings by Bellows are 
also included. Other European painters represented are Klee, Miro, 
Okada, de Stael, Villon, and Vuillard. The gallery's collection of 
works by British artists is enrichened by the addition of paintings 
by Fuseli, Hogarth, Crome, Devis, Wheatley, Wilson, Wright of 
Derby, and Zoffany. Among the sculptures are five small terra 
cottas by Maillol, two Leger bronze reliefs, six bronze reliefs by 
Manzu, a stone carving by Moore, a stabile by Calder, a bronze 
by Despiau, and a terra cotta by Renoir. 

Gifts of paintings and sculptures from other generous donors 
included a magnificent small Manet entitled Ball at the Opera, and, 
from the twentieth century, a Cubist Still Life by Roy Lichtenstein, 
a painting by Frank Stella, a Cornell construction, and a Warhol 



National Gallery of Art I 375 



silkscreen on canvas entitled Let Us Now Praise Famous Men 
Rauschenberg Family). 

Among the n^ore than 870 contemporary graphics given to the 
gallery is a group of 805 prints from the Tamarind Lithography 
Workshop in Los Angeles, and two other smaller groups of prints 
by Johns, Lichtenstein, Kelly, Motherwell, Stella, Francis, Anni and 
Josef Albers, and Cornell, 

The graphics collection was greatly enhanced by the acquisition 
of 200 of the finest works in Julius Held's collection of old master 
and modern drawings. Of the 156 artists represented in the collec- 
tion, 118 are new to the gallery's collections. Among the drawings 
of particular importance are an Eakins, Poleman in the Ma'sh, an 
early German mannerist by the Master of the Lichtenstein Adora- 
tion, powerful works in color by Benjamin West, an album of 
sketches of Rome by Robert, and works by seventeenth-century 
Flemish, sixteenth-century French, and nineteenth-century German 
and English artists. Other firie drawings acquired through dona- 
tions were a Gainsborough landscape, a Saint-Aubin study of 
figures seated outdoors, a Trinquess red chalk of A Lady Sewing, 
a Lallemand gouache, an extraordinary large Pillement pastel 
landscape, a Kirchner, Bather on the Beach, and a large Klee 
watercolor. 

Outstanding gifts of prints included Bracquemond's tonal mas- 
terpiece Le Soir, a charming Baby in a Basket Outdoors by Vuillard, 
and eighteen Eschers. 

Purchases of individual drawings were led by Barocci's large 
and beautiful Figure Studies on blue paper; two de Gheyns, an 
early mannerist Saint Mattias and a very late and disturbing witch- 
craft scene; one of Rubens's earliest drawings for book illustra- 
tion; and prime works by Rosa, Huet, and Haseltine. Among print 
purchases was an impression of Rosa's Diogenes, one of the finest 
known of any Rosa etching. 

The sixteen temporary exhibitions offered during the year pre- 
sented works of art ranging from products of fourteenth-century 
Aztec Mexico to twentieth-century American sculptor David Smith. 
Ten of the exhibitions focused on the work of individual artists. 
The most comprehensive exhibition ever held of the works of 
Claude Lorrain commemorated the 300th anniversary of that 
artist's death. Organized jointly with the Reunion des musees 



376 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



nationaux, it was the first major exhibition of Claude's work to be 
held in the United States or France. Sixty still-life paintings by 
American trompe-l'oeil artist John F, Peto were examined for their 
content and historical context. Over sixty sculptures by David 
Smith, ranging in scale from the small Agricola series to the 
monumental stainless steel Cubis, were displayed on all four levels 
of the East Building. 

Smaller, more intimate, exhibitions presented the works of 
Raphael, Manet, Braque, and Arp. An examination of Raphael's 
historical importance for American artists and collectors celebrated 
the 500th anniversary of the artist's birth. Manet and Modern 
Paris marked the centenary of his death and focused on the visual 
exploration of Paris and its environs by Manet, his precursors, 
contemporaries, and followers in the second half of the nineteenth 
century. An exhibition of thirty collages by Georges Braque cele- 
brated the centenary of his birth. Jean Arp: The Dada Reliefs 
illustrated Arp's experiments with the Dada concepts of chance 
and automatism in a variety of materials. The first major exhibi- 
tion in the United States of engravings, etchings, and woodcuts by 
Lucas van Leyden, the Dutch painter and printmaker, presented 
140 works by that artist and other sixteenth-century Dutch print- 
makers. 

The finding of an important stone monument in Mexico City 
in February 1978 and the subsequent excavation of the Templo 
Mayor, or Great Temple, of Tenochtitlan, the capital of the Aztec 
Empire, inspired the Art of Aztec Mexico: Treasures of Tenochtit- 
lan, organized jointly with Dumbarton Oaks. Monumental stone 
sculptures, some of which were used in the rituals of human sacri- 
fice, dazzling gold jewelry, pottery, and mosaics of semiprecious 
stones presented the first comprehensive survey of the artistic 
achievements of the Aztecs ever shown in the United States. 

Painting in Naples from Caravaggio to Giordano, an examina- 
tion of the art of painting in seventeenth-cenutry Naples, presented 
more than 100 works dating from Caravaggio's arrival in Naples 
in 1606 to the end of Luca Giordano's career in 1705, and illus- 
trated the influence of Caravaggio's powerful realism and dramatic 
lighting on the artists who came to work in that city from other 
parts of Italy and Europe. 

Seventy-three nineteenth- and twentieth-century American and 



National Gallery of Art I 377 



European paintings from the John Hay Whitney Collection focused 
on the French impressionists and their successors and included 
the eight paintings recently donated to the gallery. Five Surrealists 
from the Menil Collections exhibited forty-two paintings, sculp- 
tures, drawings, and objects, by Magritte, de Chirico, Ernst, Tan- 
guy, and Brauner, from one of the finest collections of surrealist 
art still in private hands, and presented a preview of one area of 
art which will be housed in the Menil Collections museum now 
being constructed in Houston and scheduled to open in late 1984. 

Works of art on paper were exhibited in: Visions of City and 
Country, which traced the development of landscape art in nine- 
teenth-century France through 146 prints and photographs; Draw- 
ings from the Holy Roman Empire 1540-1680: A Selection from 
North American Collections; a group of more than 170 photo- 
graphs by Alfred Stieglitz chosen from the 1,600 given to the 
gallery by his widow, Georgia O'Keeffe; and Night Prints, which 
focused on renderings of darkness and dramatic contrasts of light 
and dark in graphic works dating from the sixteenth to the twen- 
tieth century. The latter three exhibitions were installed in the 
new graphics galleries in the ground floor of the West Building. 

The gallery made loans to thirty-nine exhibitions at fifty-six 
American institutions and to fifteen exhibitions at nineteen mu- 
seums in foreign countries. Included were a total of seventy-one 
paintings, six sculptures, and ninety-two works of graphic art. 

The Education Department prepared interpretive material for 
the Naples, Raphael, van Leyden, Aztec, Claude, and Whitney 
exhibitions, and for the new installations of the French furniture, 
Chinese porcelains, and Renaissance bronzes. Attendance totaled 
209,067 at the special tours, lectures, and films as well as the 
regularly scheduled tours and talks relating to the gallery's collec- 
tions, the tours conducted by volunteer docents for area school 
children and foreign visitors, and the auditorium lectures delivered 
by staff docents and invited scholars. 

A number of distinguished scholars lectured during the year. 
Among them were Vincent Scully, presently serving as Colonel 
John Trumbull Professor of the History of Art at Yale University, 
who delivered the 1983 A. W. Mellon Lectures in the Fine Arts 
on "The Shape of France"; Sydney J. Freedberg, Arthur Kingsley 
Porter Professor of Fine Arts, Harvard University; Ann Suther- 



378 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



land Harris, Amon Carter Visiting Professor of Art History, Uni- 
versity of Texas, Arlington, Texas; Bates Lowry, director of the 
National Building Museum, Washington, D.C.; Konrad Oberhuber, 
curator of drawings at the Fogg Art Museum, Harvard University; 
Jules D. Prown, professor of art history, Yale University; and 
Theodore Reff, professor of art history at Columbia University. 



National Gallery of Art I 379 



Smithsonian Year « ip8} 
CHRONOLOGY 



The following is a representative selection of Smithsonian events during the 
fiscal year. No attempt has been made to make this a complete compilation of 
the Institution's activities. 



October 

Exhibition: Chinese Art of the Warring States Period: Change and Conti- 
nuity, 480-222 B.C., celebrating the sixtieth anniversary of the Freer Gallery 
of Art, opened. 

Construction: The roadways and parking areas of the uppermost levels of the 
Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory at Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, were paved as 
a dust-control measure. 

October 1 

Special Event: HERPlab, a family learning center for visitors, opened in the 
Reptile and Amphibian House at the National Zoo and subsequently received 
the 1983 AAZPA Education Award. 

Publication: Dr. Paul J. Spangler, National Museum of Natural History, pub- 
lished an in-depth bibliography of the aquatic beetles of Mexico, Central 
America, and the West Indies, making it possible for entomological students 
to begin studies of critically important fauna in countries where access to 
literature is limited. 

October 2 

Special Event: The National Museum of American History completed the 
Star-Spangled Banner preservation project and inaugurated a new flag presen- 
tation ceremony that includes a recorded commentary and early versions of 
the National Anthem. 

October 3-5 

Seminar: The first national seminar on "Older Adults and the Museum World: 
An Emerging Partnership" was sponsored by the Office of Museum Programs 
and attended by fifty-five museum professionals. 

October 4 

Milestone: Veterans of Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory's satellite 
tracking program celebrated the twenty-fifth anniversary of the launch of 
the first space satellite, the Russian Sputnik 1. 

380 



Milestone: In order to foster closer collaboration with other Smithsonian his- 
tory and art museums, the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum was transferred 
organizationally from the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service 
to the Office of the Assistant Secretary for History and Art. 

October 11-14 

Lecture: The director of the Office of Biological Conservation presented the 
keynote address on the Afrotropical Realm at the World National Parks 
Conference in Bali, Indonesia. 

October 12 

Exhibition: The National Museum of American History opened The Italians 
in the Creation of America, an exhibition of seventy-nine rare books and 
maps by Italian writers and cartographers from the late fifteenth through the 
early nineteenth centuries. 

October 12 

Special Events: Buckminister Fuller, one of the most influential designers and 
thinkers of the twentieth century, discussed the potential city of the future in 
a lecture presented by the Resident Associate Program. 

October 14 

Milestone: The Cooper-Hewitt Textile Study Center, made possible by 
Thomas M. Evans and the Milliken Foundation, was officially dedicated. 

October 14-16 

International Symposium: "Scandinavian Design," consisting of lectures and 
other events, was presented by the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in conjunction 
with a Scandinavian exhibition. 

October 18 

New Program: The Kellogg Project/Office of Museum Programs began a 
three-year effort to expand the educational role of museums in their com- 
munities. 

October 19 

Exhibition: Alice Pike Barney: Bringing Culture to a Provincial Capital 
opened at Barney Studio House, the first exhibition in this unique showplace. 

October 26 

Exhibition: African Emblems of Status opened at the Museum of African Art. 

October 29 

Exhibition: Charles Willson Peale and His World, reflecting the multifaceted 
talents of Peale as artist, scientist, and inventor, opened at the National 
Portrait Gallery. 

October 30-31 

Special Events: Latin American craftsmen and musicians from Washington, 
D.C., re-created a traditional Day of the Dead celebration at the Renwick 
Gallery, produced by the Office of Folklife Programs in conjunction with the 
Celebration exhibition. 

November 

Awards: The Office of Public Affairs won several top honors from the D.C. 
Chapter of the Society for Technical Communication. OPA's Research Reports 
placed first in the newsletter category; OPA assistant director and chief 

Chronology I 381 



science writer Madeleine Jacobs won first place, third place, and honorable 
mention for News Service articles and an honorable mention for a brochure 
describing programs at the Radiation Biology Laboratory. 

Lecture: The director of the Office of Biological Conservation delivered a 
paper on the "Preservation of Genetic Resources" at the International Scien- 
tific Conference on Environmental Research and Management Priorities for 
the 1980s, held at the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm. 

Publication: Evolucion en los Tropicos, the Spanish translation of a collection 
of twenty-two papers by researchers at the Smithsonian Tropical Research 
Institute, edited by Georgina A. de Alba and Roberta W. Rubinoff, was pub- 
lished by STRI and the University of Panama Press. 

Publication: The Ecology of a Tropical Forest: Seasonal Rhythms and Long 
Term Changes, published by the Smithsonian Institution Press, included 
thirty-two papers on the results of studies conducted on Barro Colorado 
Island. 

November 1 

Exhibition: Ban Chiang: Discovery of a Lost Bronze Age opened at the Uni- 
versity of Pennsylvania, marking a major collaboration among Smithsonian 
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, the University Museum, and the 
Department of Fine Arts, Thailand. 

November 1 

Exhibition: The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service opened 
Beauties of the Coral Reef at the ATLAPA Convention Center in the Republic 
of Panama. A Marine Sciences Symposium Day on November 18 marked its 
closing, with students from many parts of Panama attending. 

November 4 

Exhibitions: Two exhibits on the art and life of the twentieth-century Ameri- 
can sculptor David Smith opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture 
Garden. A related all-day symposium was held at the museum and the 
National Gallery of Art on November 6. 

November 5 

Exhibition: The Prints of Louis Lozowick opened at the National Museum of 
American Art and included seventy works from the virtually complete set of 
lithographs and wood engravings deposited with the museum by Adele 
Lozowick, widow of the artist. 

Award: "Here at the Smithsonian . . .," the Office of Telecommunications' 
series of short features for television, was honored with a Silver Award from 
the International Film and TV Festival of New York. 

November 7-9 

Workshop: Staff members from the Chesapeake Bay Center and other re- 
search institutions gathered to discuss research data and future plans on 
"Nutrient Flux and Cycling in the Rhode River Watershed/Estuarine Eco- 
system." 

November 7-14 

Lecture: Wilton S. Dillon, director of the Office of Seminars and Symposia, 
spoke on "The Uses of Ceremony in Science" in Caracas, Venezuela, at the 
centenary of the death of Charles Darwin. 

382 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



November 9. 

Lecture: The annual James Arthur Lecture in solar physics was given at the 
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory by Douglas Gough, Cambridge Uni- 
versity, on the topic, "Helioseismology." 

November 17 

Exhibition: The Spirit of Texas, the first helicopter to fly around the world, 
was placed on display in the National Air and Space Museum. The pilots, 
H. Ross Perot, Jr., and Jay Coburn, later received the Samuel P. Langley 
Medal for their pioneering flight. 

Seminar: Dr. Bert Drake, Radiation Biology Laboratory, conducted a seminar, 
"Utilization of Solar Radiation Reflectance and Gas Exchange in Studies of 
Primary Production in Salt Marsh Communities," at the University of Dela- 
ware. 

November 19 

Special Event: A ceremony at the National Zoo opened the exhibition of two 
young bald eagles that were presented to the American people by the people 
of the Federal Republic of Germany. 

November 19-20 

Performance: "The Children of Pride: A True Story of Georgia and the Civil 
War," a four-part series, was presented at the National Portrait Gallery, of- 
fering a concentrated insight into the antebellum, Civil War, and Reconstruc- 
tion South. 

November 24 

Exhibition: Contemporary Paintings from Pakistan, forty-three works by 
twenty-three artists of the twentieth century, opened at the Hirshhorn Mu- 
seum and Sculpture Garden. 

December 

PSA: A public service announcement for television was produced by the 
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education and the Office of Public Affairs 
to give visibility to the facilities available for disabled visitors. In addition 
to the distribution to commercial stations in Washington and surrounding 
cities, the President's Committee on Employment for the Handicapped funded 
a national distribution to cable stations. 

December 

Publication: A series of ten guides to the Smithsonian Institution Libraries 
branches was published. 

December 1 

Exhibition: The Artist and the Space Shuttle, an art exhibition documenting 
the development of the Space Shuttle program, opened in the National Air 
and Space Museum with more than 100 works of art. 

December 3 
Exhibition: Trade Literature: Clothing and Allied Industries, featuring items 
from the Smithsonian Institution Libraries collections, was opened, supported 
by a grant from the Smithsonian Institution Women's Committee. 

December 3—5 

Special Event: The National Associates Travel Program celebrated its eleventh 
annual "Christmas at the Smithsonian" weekend. 

Chronology I 383 



December 4 

Seminar: "In Search of Human Origins," presented by the Resident Associate 
Program, featured distinguished scientists who examined new discoveries and 
new approaches in evaluating the origins of man. 

Special Event: The Hirshhorn Museum's seventh annual "Hirshhorn Holiday: 
A Celebration for Children" was sponsored by the Smithsonian Women's 
Committee and featured performances, music, dancing, and magic. 

December 5 

Special Event: Contributing Members were invited to the official residence 
of the Ambassador of Canada to the United States where they toured his 
collection of prints by French artist James Jacques Joseph Tissot. 

December 9-10 

Support: The Office of Biological Conservation participated in the forty- 
second meeting of the Charles Darwin Foundation for the Galapagos Isles, 
which resulted in the office's providing logistical support for the foundation's 
endowment drive. 

December 10 

Installation: The original "Old Glory" flag was placed on display by the 
National Museum of American History following completion of conservation 
procedures. 

Special Event: The Smithsonian Women's Committee held its twelfth annual 
Christmas fundraiser dinner-dance, "Winter Wonderland," in the National 
Museum of Natural History, with forty-three green and flocked decorated 
trees provided by the Office of Horticulture. 

Special Event: The Wigilia, a Polish Christmas celebration, was reenacted by 
Polish-Americans with crafts, food, music, and dance at the Renwick Gallery 
in conjunction with the Celebration exhibition. 

December 12 

Reorganization: The Motion Picture Unit in the Office of Exhibits Central 
and the Video Production Unit in the Office of Museum Programs were drawn 
together under the Office of Telecommunications. 

December 16 

Exhibition: The annual Trees of Christmas opened in the National Museum 
of American History with twelve living trees decorated with cultural and 
ethnic themes. 

December 16 

Special Event: Veteran Broadway producer George Abbott reminisced on his 
life in the theater in a living self-portrait program at the National Portrait 
Gallery. 

December 23 
Grant: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute received a grant from 
the W. Alton Jones Foundation of Charlottesville, Virginia, to initiate "Alter- 
natives to Destruction," a series of projects designed to offer short-term 
solutions to tropical deforestation. 

December 27 

Acquisition: Miners in the Sierras (1851-52), by Charles Nahl and Frederick 
Wenderoth, and Sa'xon (1966-67), by Deborah Remington, were accessioned 

384 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



by the National Museum of American Art, gifts from the Fred Heilbron Col- 
lection and Flora M. Biddle respectively. 

January 

Award: The Office of Telecommunications received the top Freedoms Founda- 
tion Award for Excellence in Radio for its special broadcast of "Yorktown: 
Echoes of a Victory." 

Special Appropriation: Congress appropriated $200,000 for the Office of Tele- 
communications production of "Peace Be Still," a film celebrating the signing 
of the 1783 Treaty of Paris. The major filming in Paris and London was 
completed in September 1983. 

January 1 

New Programs: The Office of Fellowships and Grants assumed administration 
of Smithsonian Institution Cooperative Education Program. 

January 3 

Appointment: Irwin I. Shapiro of MIT assumed responsibilities as director 
of the Joint Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, as well as the 
directorships of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and the Harvard 
College Observatory. 

January 5 

Award: George Field, former director of the joint Harvard-Smithsonian 
Center for Astrophysics, received the Smithsonian's Henry Medal for his 
role in founding the center and for "creating the intellectual and cooperative 
climate for a surge of astronomical advances." 

January 8 

Concert: Noted black country blues singer Libba Cotton performed with 
Mike Seeger in a concert celebrating her ninetieth birthday. The program was 
cosponsored by the Office of Folklife Programs and the Folklore Society of 
Greater Washington. 

January 9-12 

Conference: The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory served as cohost 
for the 161st General Meeting of the American Astronomical Society in 
Boston, a meeting that attracted the largest attendance in the history of the 
AAS. 

January 13 

Exhibition: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden opened The Eight 

and the Independent Tradition in American Art, consisting of forty-six works 
by the eight artists who banded together seventy-five years ago to protest 
academic art. 

January 15 

Research: Field research on the winter ecology of migratory birds was 
conducted for five weeks in the Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico, by scientists from 
the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies. 

January 16-18 

Workshop: Chesapeake Bay Center staff and invited research colleagues 
gathered to discuss "The Approach to Analysis of Biogeochemical Interac- 
tions within a Complex Estuarine/Watershed Landscape Mosaic." 

Chronology I 385 



January 19-20 

Workshop: "Conservation Awareness," an on-site workshop sponsored by the 
Office of Museum Programs, was held at the Maymont Foundation in Rich- 
mond in cooperation with the George Washington University's College of 
General Studies and the Virginia Association of Museums. 

January 26 

Classes: "Russia after Brezhnev: Turmoil from Within," a Resident Associate 
Program series of lectures by noted scholars, began exploring the unresolved 
domestic problems faced by Yuri Andropov and his colleagues in the immedi- 
ate aftermath of the death of Brezhnev. 

January 28 

Symposium: Six panelists discussed "Wonderland: Joseph Cornell's Adven- 
tures in the Arts, Humanities and Sciences," at a session cosponsored by the 
National Museum of American Art and the Archives of American Art, held 
in conjunction with the current exhibition of the artist's work. 

TV Series: Funding was obtained from the James S. McDonnell Foundation 
for the production of a seven-part television series entitled "Smithsonian 
World," to be coproduced by the Smithsonian Institution and WETA-TV and 
distributed nationally in 1984 by the Public Broadcasting Service. 

January 28-29 

Special Event: Ceremonies marking the traditional passages, from infancy to 
marriage, in the life of Ga women were enacted by the Oboade Drumming 
and Dance Company from Ghana in conjunction with the Renwick Gallery's 
Celebration exhibition. 

February 

Filming: The Agency for Instructional Television filmed Smithsonian scien- 
tists and curators for a new science series, designed for junior high school 
students, to be distributed throughout the United States and Canada for the 
1983-84 school year. 

Film Project: Under the supervision of the Office of Telecommunications, 
film producer Julian Krainin began production on two films documenting the 
construction and educational value of the Smithsonian Quadrangle. The 
first, intended for fundraising and informational purposes, was completed 
in September. 

New Program: Plans for an Intern Information and Registration Service to 
be implemented by the Visitor Information and Associates' Reception 
Center were approved. The service will provide a central registry and data 
on all interns and internships in the Institution. 

Lecture Series: In cooperation with Boston's Museum of Science, the Smith- 
sonian Astrophysical Observatory cosponsored a special two-part series of 
free popular lectures on astronomy entitled "Visions of the Cosmos" for the 
general public at the museum. 

Black History Month: Special exhibits, films, a symposium, performances, 
concerts, and demonstrations were scheduled. Tours of the Smithsonian, 
as well as related exhibits in other museums, were conducted. Internationally 
known Washington artist Sam Gilliam presented his work in the Anacostia 
Neighborhood Museum program, "Helping Young People Look at Art." 

386 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



February 1 

Appointment: Sylvia H. Williams, curator of African, Oceanic and New 
World Art at the Brooklyn Museum, was named director of the National 
Museum of African Art. 

February 3 

Exhibition: Hollywood Portrait Photographers, 1921-1941 opened at the Na- 
tional Portrait Gallery, focusing on the work of photographers who created 
the idealized images of the stars of the golden years of Hollywood. The 
exhibition set new attendance records at the gallery. 

February 6 

Exhibition: American Impressiotiism closed in Sofia, Bulgaria, after having 
been viewed by more than 700,000 people on a European tour of Paris, East 
Berlin, Vienna, and Bucharest, circulated by the Smithsonian Institution 
Traveling Exhibition Service. 

February 7 

Acquisition: With funds provided by the Regents Special Acquisition Program 
and friends of the museum, the Cooper-Hewitt acquired an important collec- 
tion of thirty-seven drawings by Frank Lloyd Wright. 

Appointment: Walter J. Boyne, acting director and formerly deputy director, 
was named director of the National Air and Space Museum. 

Fellowships: The first James E. Webb Fellows were announced by the Office 
of Fellowships and Grants. 

February 9-10 

Workshop: "Paper Conservation," an on-site workshop sponsored by the 
Office of Museum Programs, was held at Belmont in Fredericksburg, Virginia, 
in cooperation with the George Washington University's College of General 
Studies and the Virginia Association of Museums. 

February 11 

Exhibition: Japanese Ceramics Today: Masterworks from the Kikuchi Col- 
lection opened at the National Museum of Natural History with objects from 
the collection of Mme. Kikuchi of Tokyo, a noted patron of Japanese arts. 

February 12-13 

Crafts Demonstration: Tet, the Vietnamese New Year, was celebrated with 
home altars, foods, and greetings from friends at the Renwick Gallery, 
produced by the Office of Folklife Programs in conjunction with the current 
exhibition. 

February 13 

Seminar: "The Eight: American Art Comes of Age," presented by the Resi- 
dent Associate Program, focused on the first American art movement of the 
twentieth century and featured art historian Bennard Perlman, cultural 
historian Marc Pachter, and Mrs. John Sloan, widow of the artist. 

February 14-15 

Lecture: The problems of encroaching deserts and misuse of marginal lands 
were discussed in a paper on "Desertification in Africa," presented by the 
director of the Office of Biological Conservation to the Centennial Symposium 
on Plants: Renewable Resources, at the University of Texas, Austin. 

Chronology I 387 



February 25 

Symposium: "The American Black in Aviation: A Decade of Change." The 
program included war veterans, historians, and public figures; it was one of 
four related projects at the National Air and Space Museum that also 
included an exhibition, an illustrated book, and a filmstrip for elementary 
and secondary students. 

February 26-March 14 

Research: The Radiation Biology Laboratory collaborated with the Harbor 
Branch Foundation at Vero Beach and Fort Pierce, Florida, to measure and 
monitor the spectral quality of underwater light in the Indian River. 

March 

Visitor: Sheik Isa bin Salman Al Khalifa, Amir of Bahrain and Minister of 
Defense, visited the Freer Gallery of Art. 

Publication: How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey, based on the Smith- 
sonian's seventh international symposium, was published by the Smithsonian 
Institution Press. 

March 1 

Special Event: The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum observed Women's 
History Month with the display of a porcelain figure of the former slave, 
abolitionist, and suffragette Sojourner Truth, a gift of California dollmaker 
Cecilia Rothman. 

Seminar: The Resident Associate Program sponsored a five-part program 
entitled "Architectural Design Seminar: An Urban Site." Distinguished 
architects and architectural design students focused on a specific site in 
Alexandria, Virginia. 

March 4 

Special Event: The Silverscreen Ball, the annual membership dance for 
Contributing Members, was held in the Great Hall of the National Portrait 
Gallery with the Vice-President of the United States and Mrs. George Bush 
as honorary sponsors. 

March 4-8 

Exhibition: Florafest IV, the Fourth Annual Flower Show at the United States 
Botanic Gardens, opened with a large Victorian-style garden prepared by the 
Smithsonian's Office of Horticulture as its focal point. 

March 7 

Research: A Planetary Society program designed to search for extraterrestrial 
intelligence (SETI) began at the Oak Ridge Observatory in Harvard, Mass- 
achusetts, using an eighty-four-foot radio antenna owned and operated 
jointly by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and Harvard College 
Observatory. 

March 8-14 

Fieldwork: The director of the Office of Biological Conservation conducted 
fieldwork in the Tai National Forest of the Ivory Coast, to recommend the 
delineation of park boundaries and of buffer zones to avoid commercial 

388 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



forestry and industrial development in this last remaining viable stand of 
primary rain forest in that country. 

March 10 

Exhibition: Directions 1983, consisting of forty paintings, sculptures, con- 
structed environments, and large-scale drawings by seventeen contemporary 
artists, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the third in 
the "Directions" series initiated by the museum in 1979. The artists repre- 
sented in the exhibition participated in an evening program with curator 
Phyllis Rosenzweig. 

March 11-12 

Special Event: An Irish Ceili was celebrated with traditional music, dance, 
and food at the Renwick Gallery, produced by the Office of Folklife Programs 
in conjunction with the exhibition Celebration. 

March 19 

Symposium: "Looking at Women/' a program moderated by Wanda Corn, 
associate professor of art history at Stanford University, was held at the 
National Museum of American Art in conjunction with its exhibition on the 
art of Elizabeth Nourse, 1859-1938. 

March 20 

Research: Environmental chemist David Correll, Chesapeake Bay Center, 
left for the Peoples Republic of China as a participant in the Estuarine 
Research Federation's tour of coastal environmental research centers in China. 

March 21 

Research: The National Museum of Natural History launched a pioneering 
international collaborative study of Aldabra, one of the world's most scien- 
tifically interesting coral atolls. The five-year study will focus on the marine 
ecosystems of the island, especially those of the lagoon and its fringes. 

March 27 

Lecture: Dr. Jan Vansina, research professor of history at the University of 
Wisconsin, presented an illustrated lecture on Kuba art and status at the 
National Museum of African Art. 

March 27 

Special Program: The Office of Museum Programs and the United States 
Information Agency cosponsored the "Education in Museums" project through 
April 24 for 20 museum professionals from abroad to study museum educa- 
tion techniques at the Smithsonian and other museums in the United States. 

March 28 

Outreach: Dr. Robert Stuckenrath, Radiation Biology Laboratory, taught a 
block course on Radiocarbon Dating and Interpretation to graduate students 
of the Institute for Quaternary Studies of the University of Maine. 

April 

PSA: The noted actor Gregory Peck donated his time and talent to appear 
as narrator in a thirty-second television public service announcement pro- 
duced by the Office of Public Affairs on the varied activities of the Smith- 
sonian. The spot was subsequently seen by viewers in all fifty states, through 
both commercial and cable TV stations. 

Chronology I 389 



April 

Gift: The Joseph H. Hazen Foundation donated approximately 150 copies of 
The Muses Flee Hitler: Cultural Transfer and Adaptation, 1930—1945 to uni- 
versity and municipal libraries to extend the book's immediate use. 

Contract Award: A $4.3 million contract was awarded to the Smithsonian 
Astrophysical Observatory to build a High Resolution Imager instrument 
for the ROSAT X-ray satellite now being prepared by a West Germany 
group for launching in 1987. 

April 1 

New Facilities: The renovated Small Mammal House and a new Monkey 
Island were opened at the National Zoo. 

Research: An apparent fifth "hotspot" on the northern-half of the Mid- 
Atlantic Ridge was discovered by Dr. William G. Melson, National Museum 
of Natural History, while mapping the chemistry of glassy lava in that 
area. Hotspots are centers of "excess" volcanic activity and are considered 
by some as a driving mechanism for plate tectonics. 

April 2 

Milestone: The National Air and Space Museum welcomed its 60 millionth 
visitor to the museum: Lauren Simkoff of Cleveland, Ohio, a twenty-year-old 
student at American University in Washington, D.C. 

April 4 

Publication: The Muses Flee Hitler: Cultural Transfer and Adaptation, 1930- 
1945, based on two colloquia organized by the Office of Smithsonian Sym- 
posia and Seminars for the Einstein Centennial, was published by the Smith- 
sonian Institution Press. 

April 6 

Special Event: The fourth of the 1982-83 Frank Nelson Doubleday series at 
the National Museum of American History was presented by Arthur Mitchell 
and the company of the Dance Theatre of Harlem with an introduction to the 
fundamentals of ballet and performances of numerous selections. 

Lecture: The first of two informal evenings focusing on today's art world 
featured art dealer Mary Boone at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture 
Garden. Critics Grace Glueck and Carter Ratcliff appeared April 13. 

April 7 

Seminar: The Office of Horticulture was host to the monthly educational 
meeting of the D.C. Branch of the Professional Grounds Management 
Society, at which Dr. Robert Howell of the U.S. Department of Agriculture 
spoke on environmental plant stress. 

Milestone: The Tropical Sciences Library, a branch of the Smithsonian 
Institution Libraries serving the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in 
Panama, was officially inaugurated by Dr. Caspar Garcia de Paredes, 
Panama's Minister of Health, with Dr. David Challinor, Assistant Secretary 
for Science, officiating for the Smithsonian. 

April 9-10 

Symposium: "Animal Intelligence: Insights into the Animal Mind," the 
second National Zoological Park symposium designed specifically for the 
lay audience, featured twelve expert lecturers. 

390 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



April 10-19 

Workshop: Dr. Gerald Deitzer, Radiation Biology Laboratory, participated 
in an Australian workshop on "Stomatal Functions in Flowering Plants" 
held in Honolulu, Hawaii. 

Aprill2 

Special Event: A tour of the Diplomatic Reception Rooms of the U.S. 
Department of State was conducted for the Contributing Membership, with 
commentary by Clement E. Conger, curator. 

April 14 

Lecture: The historian of the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, Louise 
Daniel Hutchinson, participated in the University of the District of Colum- 
bia's Distinguished Senior Scholars Series with a lecture on "Anna J. 
Coopper: Struggling for the Light." 

April 14-16 

Workshop: "Collections Management," an on-site workshop sponsored by 
the Office of Museum Programs, was held at the Alexandria Museum in 
Louisiana, with twenty museum professionals from Louisiana attending. 

April 15 

Grant Awards: The Office of Fellowships and Grants designated the 1983-84 
fellowship recipients. 

April 15 

Exhibition: Faberge: Jeweler to Royalty, an exhibition selected largely from 
the collection of Queen Elizabeth II and other British lenders, opened at the 
Cooper-Hewitt Museum to the public as part of the citywide "Britain Salutes 
New York" festival. 

April 16-17 

Special Event: The Paul E. Garber Facility of the National Air and Space 
Museum held its second annual open house, with more than 12,000 visitors 
participating in self-guided tours through four buildings. 

April 17 

Appointment: Ralph C. Rinzler was appointed director of the Office of 
Public Service, succeeding Julian T. Euell, former Assistant Secretary for 
Public Service, who became director of the Oakland Museum in California. 
Rinzler was subsequently named Assistant Secretary for Public Service. 

Exhibition: The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum opened Portraits in Black: 
Outstanding Americans of Negro Origin, thirty-four paintings from the 
Harmon Foundation Collection of the National Portrait Gallery. 

Special Event: Maimouna, a community wide open house celebrated among 
Sephardic Jews from Morocco on the last day of Passover, was re-created 
with traditional foods and music at the Renwick Gallery, produced by the 
Office of Folklife Programs in conjunction with the Celebration exhibition. 

April 22 

Film Premiere: "American Picture Palaces," produced by the Office of Tele- 
communications in conjunction with a Cooper-Hewitt exhibition, premiered 
in Washington, D.C. It subsequently won a Bronze Award from the Houston 

Chronology I 391 



International Film Festival of the Americas, a Red Ribbon Award from the 
American Film Festival, and a Silver Cindy Award from the Information 
Film Producers of America. 

April 26-29 

Colloquium: As the first activity of the Kellogg Project/Office of Museum 
Programs, thirty-five participants from museums in the United States met 
at the Belmont Conference Center to discuss "Increasing the Museum's 
Responsiveness to Cultural Diversity." 

April 27 

Seminar: A panel of curators and visiting librarians discussed "Trade 
Literature Preserving American Enterprise," as part of the Smithsonian 
Institution Libraries seminars and lectures series. 

April 28 

Seminar: The Congressional Wives met at the Office of Horticulture green- 
houses at the U.S. Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, where they toured the 
grounds and the greenhouses and heard orchid specialist Paul Desautels 
present a program on orchids and their culture. 

April 28 

Exhibition: The American Garden, designed by the Smithsonian Office of 
Horticulture, opened along with thirty-five other international gardens as 
part of the International Horticultural Exhibition (IGA 83) in Munich, 
Germany. 

May 

Grants: The Dibner Fund, Inc., of Norwalk, Connecticut, provided a grant 
to produce a guide to manuscripts in the Smithsonian Institution Libraries' 
Dibner collection. 

Presentation: The Charles Lang Freer Medal for distinguished contributions 
to the knowledge and understanding of oriental art history was awarded 
to Dr. Max Loehr, Harvard University professor emeritus, the seventh 
recipient of the medal. 

May 2-3 

Workshop: "Computerization for Museum Collections," an on-site workshop 
cosponsored by the Office of Museum Programs and the New England 
Museum Association, was held at the Atheneum in Hartford, Connecticut, 
with thirty-two museum professionals from New England attending. 

May 4 

Research: The discovery of a new comet, IRAS-Araki-AIcock, was announced 
by the International Astronomical Union's Central Telegram Bureau head- 
quartered at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. Significant obser- 
vations of the comet were made by SAO researchers using optical telescopes 
at the Whipple Observatory and radar instruments at Arecibo, Puerto Rico. 

May 4 

Exhibition: The National Museum of American History opened the exhibit 

Building Brooklyn Bridge: The Design and Construction, 1867-1883, with 
more than 300 drawings, photographs, other graphic materials, and objects 
documenting this engineering masterpiece. 

392 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



May 4 
Lecture: The director of the Office of Horticulture, James R. Buckler, spoke 
on "The Horticultural Extravaganza of the Victorian Era" at the Art in Bloom 
exhibition at the Boston Museum of Fine Art. 

May 5-8 

Special Event: The Washington Craft Show, first of a planned annual fund- 
raising event, was sponsored by the Smithsonian Women's Committee. One 
hundred craftspeople were selected to exhibit and sell their work in the 
show at the Departmental Auditorium. 

May 6 
Exhibition: The Silk Route and the Diamond Path, consisting of esoteric 
art created along the ancient trans-Himalayan trade routes, opened at the 
Evans Gallery, National Museum of Natural History, and included rare sculp- 
ture, painted scrolls, ritual objects, and fragments of wall paintings. 

May 15 

Milestone: The Cooper-Hewitt master's degree program in European decora- 
tive arts, a project undertaken jointly with Parsons School of Design, 
successfully completed its first academic year. 

May 15-19 

Seminar: Dr. Elisabeth Gantt, Radiation Biology Laboratory, spoke on "The 
Association of Photosystem II with Phycobilisomes in Porphyridium cruen- 
tum" at the U.S. -Hungarian Seminar on Photosynthesis, Szeged, Hungary. 

May 16 

Milestone: The Museum Support Center in Suitland, Maryland, was dedicated 
in a ceremony at which Secretary Ripley officiated with the assistance of 
Smithsonian Regent Norman Mineta and other key Institution officials. The 
world's most up-to-date collections-management facility, it was designed to 
provide housing and protection of collections and laboratory space for the 
National Museum of Natural History, the Conservation Analytical Labora- 
tory, and other units within the Smithsonian. 

New Program: Forty Ballou High School (Washington, D.C.) students parti- 
cipated in the first of a series of Career Awareness Programs (CAP), 
designed to introduce minority young people to opportunities at the Smith- 
sonian. In the future, the CAP will expand to serve all District of Columbia 
public school ninth-graders. 

May 17 

Announcement: S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Institution since February 
1964, announced plans to retire in September 1984. A search committee was 
named by Chief Justice Warren Burger as Chancellor of the Institution. 

Special Event: "Literary Southerners Look at Literary Yankees," the fifth of 
the 1982-83 Frank Nelson Doubleday lectures at the National Museum of 
American History, featured noted authors Walker Percy, Eudora Welty, and 
C. Vann Woodward, sharing their thoughts on three nineteenth-century 
authors whose works were recently published in the Library of America 
series. 

Film Premiere: A special showing of the film Yorktown, produced under the 
supervision of the Office of Telecommuncations, was held at the American 

Chronology I 393 



Embassy in Paris for digriitaries from the French academic, cultural, and 
political circles. 

Exhibitions: African Art in Color and From the Earth: African Ceramic Art 
opened at the National Museum of African Art. 

May 19 

Special Event: "An Evening with Clare Boothe Luce" featured the playwright, 
politician, and diplomat in a dialogue with historian Marc Pachter at the 
National Portrait Gallery. 

May 20-21 

Special Event: A blues house party, with ethnic dishes and a cross-section 
of traditional and contemporary blues, was organized by the Office of Folklife 
Programs, in conjunction with the Celebration exhibition at the Renwick 
Gallery. 

May 21 

Acquisition: Thomas Jefferson by Gilbert Stuart, the historic "Edgehill" por- 
trait painted in 1805, was acquired jointly by the National Portrait Gallery 
and the Thomas Jefferson Foundation at Monticello. The portrait will be dis- 
played alternately by the two owners for three-year periods. 

May 31 

Outreach: The Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center estab- 
lished a three-fold Information Outreach Program — the development of a 
previsit education program, promotion of memberships, and the design and 
implementation of an exterior graphic information system. 

June 

Milestone: The first inventory of the Smithsonian Institution collections was 
completed — a shelf-by-shelf counting of approximately 100 million objects 
in the collections, the first such counting in the Institution's 137-year history. 

Grants: Smithsonian Institution Libraries received a grant from the Atherton 
Seidell Endowment Fund for a test of on-line document ordering. 

Awards: Smithsonian winners in the 1983 Blue Pencil and Gold Screen 
Awards competition, sponsored by the National Association of Government 
Communicators, included the OPA-produced public service announcement 
on Smithsonian facilities for handicapped visitors (honorable mention); 
an educational film from the Office of Telecommunications (honorable 
mention); a NASM publication (third prize); the Smithsonian Associate 
newsletter (first prize); and an OPA Smithsonian News Service story (third 
prize). The Smithsonian Institution Press took second and third place and 
honorable mention in the popular book category. 

June 1 

Appointment: Dr. Roy Sieber, Rudy Professor of Fine Arts at Indiana 
University, was named associate director for Collections and Research of 
the National Museum of African Art. 

Publication: The first major scientific volume published on the "shelfbreak" 
boundary between the continental shelf and slope, one of the newest frontiers 
in oceanography, was produced under the co-editorship of museum geologist 
Dr. Daniel Jean Stanley. 

394 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



June 2 

Exhibition: The Heritage of Islam, reflecting the 1,400 years of Islamic civili- 
zation, opened in the Evans Gallery of the National Museum of Natural His- 
tory, with more than 250 scientific and artistic treasures. 

June 3 

Exhibition: Mr. Sully, Portrait Painter: The Works of Thomas Sully (1783- 
1872)," commemorating one of America's most prominent portraitists on the 
200th anniversary of his birth, opened at the National Portrait Gallery. 

June 5 

Publication: The Smithsoniat^ . . . in a Few Words was produced by the Office 
of Elementary and Secondary Education, to serve as the Institution's guide- 
book for visitors with limited reading ability. 

June 5-10 

Special Event: Summerfest 83, a week of special lectures, demonstrations, 
films, and workshops on National Zoo animals, was scheduled for visitors in 
conjunction with nationwide Zoo and Aquarium Month. 

June 7 

Special Event: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum participated in the fifth annual 
Museum Mile Festival, a cooperative event among ten major museums that 
was initiated by the museum in 1979. 

June 9 

Exhibition: The National Air and Space Museum opened Stars, a major 
gallery that depicts knowledge of the universe from ancient time to the 
present through the use of sophisticated special effects and high-tech 
exhibits. 

June 11-17 

Exhibition/Lecture: An exhibition designed by the Smithsonian Office of 
Horticulture, American Public Gardens and Arboreta, as well as a lecture by 
the director of the office, was part of America Week at Amerika Haus in 
Munich, Germany. 

June 12 

Lecture: The iconography of color in Senufo art was the subject of a lecture 
at the National Museum of African Art by Anita Glaze, associate professor 
of art. University of Illinois, presented in conjunction with the African Art 
in Color exhibition. 

June 12-15 

Workshop: The Native American Museum Program/Office of Museum 
Programs sponsored a national workshop for Native American museum and 
cultural center directors and administrators in cooperation with the Southwest 
Museum, Los Angeles. 

June 15 

Education: The Office of Museum Programs sponsored a nine-week course, 
"Museum Careers Seminars," providing Smithsonian and other Washington 
museum interns with an overview of the museum profession and the skills 
and education required. 

Chronology I 395 



June 16 

Lecture: The director of the Office of Biological Conservation delivered a 
paper on the exploitation of tropical medicinal plants at a symposiuni held 
in Munich, Germany, "Contribution of Herbs of the Third World to World 
Health." 

Exhibition: Forty-five major paintings by German-born American artist 
Friedel Dzubas opened at the Hirshorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. A 
dialogue between the artist and curator Charles Millard was scheduled in 
conjunction with the exhibition opening. 

June 17 

Special Event: Winnie Owens-Hart, Howard University, presented a demon- 
stration/lecture on African pottery making at the National Museum of 
African Art. 

June 20 

Research: A balloon-borne far-infrared spectrometer and telescope, designed 
and constructed by Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory as part of an 
international intercomparison campaign, was launched from Palestine, Texas, 
on a high-altitude flight that produced nearly twelve hours of data about 
the Earth's upper atmosphere. 

June 20-23 

Workshop: "Freeze-Drying of Biological Specimens," an on-site workshop 
sponsored by the Office of Museum Programs, was held at the Nevada 
State Museum in Carson City, with fifteen museum professionals attending 
from Nevada and California. 

June 21 

Milestone: Chief Justice Warren Burger and Vice-President George Bush 
joined Secretary Ripley in a groundbreaking ceremony for the new Center 
for African, Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures. The Center will house a new 
museum of Asian art, the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, the National Museum 
of African Art, and an International Center. Construction is scheduled for 
completion in 1985. 

June 22 

Acquisition: The Subsiding of the Waters of the Deluge, an 1829 oil on can- 
vas by Thomas Cole, was accessioned by the National Museum of American 
Art as a museum donative purchase from Mrs. James Wallace Dean. 

June 23-27; June 30-July 4 

Folklife Festival: The seventeenth annual Festival of American Folklife 
featured the traditional culture of the state of New Jersey, the folk traditions 
of France and French-American communities, and the 200th anniversary of 
manned flight. The second annual National Heritage Fellowships were 
awarded by the National Endowment for the Arts to sixteen musicians and 
craftspeople, and an exhibition in the National Museum of American History 
highlighted the accomplishments of these recipients. 

June 27 

Expanded Program: Organized by the Office of Elementary and Secondary 
Education, the six- week Summer Intern Program began; for the first time it 
was open to students throughout the continental United States. 

396 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



June 27-July 2 

Symposium: The director of the Office of Symposia and Seminars, Wilton S. 
Dillon, participated as a member of the U.S. observer delegation at the 
symposium in Caracas, Venezuela, marking the 200th anniversary of the 
birth of Simon Bolivar. 

July 

Milestone: The joint Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics celebrated 
its tenth anniversary. 

Julyl 

Reorganization: The Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies and 
the Smithsonian Radiation Biology Laboratory were merged administratively 
to form the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, under the director- 
ship of Dr. William H. Klein. 

Julys 

New Program: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, in coop- 
eration with the Office of Public Affairs, began a pilot project aimed at 
producing a newspaper for students between the ages of twelve and fourteen. 

July 6 

Performance: French folk music was presented at the National Museum of 
American Art in conjunction with its exhibition Americans in Brittany 
and Normandy: 1860-1910. Additional public programs included a discussion 
of the artists represented, a French puppet show, and a performance by 
eighteenth- and nineteenth-century-style clowns. 

July 9 

Special Event: The National Air and Space Museum sponsored a Fantastic 
Festival of Flight to celebrate the 200th anniversary of human flight. Included 
was the tethered ascent of a replica of the Montgolfier hot air balloon as 
well as concerts and performers who defy gravity. More than 11,000 visitors 
attended. 

July 18 

Special Event: Dr. Sally Ride, first American woman in space, presented the 
National Air and Space Museum with her flight suit at a reception to 
honor the crew of the STS-7 mission aboard the Space Shuttle Challenger. 

July 21 

Milestone: The first United States birth of a Giant Panda took place at the 
National Zoo. The cub, a male, did not survive. 

July 21-22 

Seminar: The Mid-Atlantic Regional Meeting of the American Association of 
Botanical Gardens and Arboreta, held with the Smithsonian Office of 
Horticulture as host, focused on the theme "Horticulture in a Museum 
Setting." 

July 22 

Legislation: President Ronald Reagan signed a bill amending the act of 
July 2, 1940, to remove the $750,000 ceiling for support of the Smithsonian 
activities on Barro Colorado Island and incorporating the island's budget into 
that of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. 

Chronology I 397 



July 23 

Exhibition: American Porcelain opened at the Museum Negara in Kuala 
Lumpur, inaugurating the first Smithsonian Institution TraveHng Exhibition 
Service tour in Asia. 

July 25-27 

New Program: The Office of Museum Programs sponsored a workshop, 
"FamiHes in the Museum," for museum professionals from around the 
country, focusing on strengthening family involvement in museums. 

July 28 

Appointment: John E. Reinhardt was named Assistant Secretary for History 
and Art, succeeding Charles Blitzer, who became director of the National 
Humanities Center in North Carolina. Reinhardt had been acting Assistant 
Secretary since February. 

July 30 

Exhibition: M*A*S*H: Binding Up the Wounds opened at the National Mu- 
seum of American History with selected sets and objects from the award- 
winning television series and photographs from actual Mobile Army Surgical 
Hospitals in Korea and Vietnam. Response to the exhibit necessitated the 
unprecedented implementation of a free admission pass procedure at the 
Smithsonian. 

August 1 

Publication: The impact on the world of Krakatau's 1883 eruption, perhaps 
the world's most famous volcanic catastrophe, was reviewed and analyzed 
in a book by volcanologists Drs. Tom Simkin and Richard Fiske, published 
by the Smithsonian Institution Press on the centennial of the event. 

August 1-7 

Milestone: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and the Department 
of Biology, University of Panama, were cohosts of the Ninth International 
Arachonology Congress held at the ATLAPA Convention Center in Panama 
City, marking the first time the congress was held in the Americas. It was 
attended by more than 100 delegates from twenty-four countries. 

August 3-12 

Research: Dr. Frank Oldfield of Liverpool University visited the Chesapeake 
Bay Center to confer and to analyze geological samples for magnetic 
susceptibility as part of a continuing cooperative project. 

August 4 

Installation: A selection of seventy-two sculptures and drawings by Paul 
Manship, chosen from the 482 works in the permanent collection, were 
installed at the National Museum of American Art. 

August 15 

Construction: The hydrology of a watershed of the Rhode River at the 
Chesapeake Bay Center was altered to intercept surface runoff from cropland 
during storms in an effort to maximize nutrient interception. Work was 
completed in September. 

August 21-26 

Seminar: Dr. John Sager, Radiation Biology Laboratory, attended the Third 
International Greenhouse Energy Symposium at Columbus, Ohio, and 

398 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



presented a paper on "Effects of Spectral Quality on Lettuce Growth in 
Controlled Environments." 

August 26 

Appointment: Jeannine Smith Clark, former chairwoman of the Smithsonian's 
Women's Committee, was appointed to the Board of Regents, succeeding the 
late Nancy Hanks. 

August 29-September 8 

Workshop: Dr. Walter Shropshire, Radiation Biology Laboratory, partici- 
pated in a NATO Advanced Study Institute on Molecular Models of 
Photoresponsiveness and lectured on "Biological Photoresponses and Photo- 
receptors" at San Miniato, Italy. 

September 

Appointment: Senator Jim Sasser (D. Tennessee) was named to the Board of 
Regents to succeed the late Senator Henry Jackson. 

Endowment: Barrick W. Groom, long-time advisor to the Office of Smith- 
sonian Symposia and Seminars, concluded final arrangements for the 
permanent endowment of the office through regular payments from his 
estate. 

Milestone: Smithsonian Institution Libraries completed the conversion of all 
catalogue records from 1965 to the present into machine-readable electronic 
form. 

Milestone: Smithsonian Institution Libraries signed a contract for a 
Smithsonian Institution Bibliographic Information System (SIBIS). The total 
system will automate and link most library functions and will be used 
Institution-wide. 

September 2 

Seminar: Dr. Yasuhiro Omori, Japanese ethnographer, presented a seminar 
and film on "Gypsy Nomadism and Religion in France." 

September 5 

Publication: Southwest-10, the fifth of a projected twenty-volume Handbook 
of North American Indians, was published by the National Museum of Nat- 
ural History and the Smithsonian Institution Press on the non-Pueblo peo- 
ples of the Southwest. 

September 15 

Exhibition: Purchases by the Hirshhorn Museum, 1974-1983, presenting the 
entire inventory of 157 works bought by this modern art museum since its 
inauguration nearly a decade ago, opened at the Hirshhorn. 

September 15 

Exhibition: At Home in the Sky: The Aviation Art of Frank Wootton, a retro- 
spective art exhibition of works by a noted aviation artist, opened at the 
National Air and Space Museum. 

September 16 

Exhibition: Clay for Walls: Surface Reliefs by American Artists opened at 
the Renwick Gallery, with thirty-nine works by twenty contemporary Ameri- 
can artists. 

Chronology I 399 



Film Series: "Kino!," a series of contemporary Soviet films, began — presented 
by the Resident Associate Program in cooperation with the Soviet Embassy, 
the Kennan Institute, and the American Film Institute. 

September 18 

Performance: "A Musical Tribute to Earl 'Fatha' Hines," featuring Dizzy 
Gillespie and Billy Eckstine, was cosponsored by the Resident Associate 
Program and the Office of the Mayor of the District of Columbia. 

September 19 

Milestone: A news conference was held by the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibi- 
tion Service to announce the approval of the Czech-U.S. cultural exchange 
agreement making possible the exhibition The Precious Legacy: Judaic 
Treasures from the Czechoslovak State Collections. 

September 23 

Grant: The James Smithson Society awarded a $19,500 grant to the Office 
of Telecommunications for the support of a four-part "Radio Smithsonian" 
miniseries exploring America's folklore and mythology. 

September 28 

Special Event: The vice-president and director of Christie's, New York, spoke 
at the Hirshhorn Museum in a program entitled "An Evening with Jerry 
Rathbone: Art, Acquisitions and Auctions," in conjunction with the Purchase 
exhibition. 

September 28 

Grant: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service received a grant 
of approximately $600,000 from Time Incorporated to organize a major 
exhibition entitled Hollywood: Legend and Reality. 

September 29-30 

Symposium: "The Work of Peace," organized by the National Committee for 
the Bicentennial of the Treaty of Paris, the Smithsonian, and American Uni- 
versity, celebrated the 200th anniversary of the Peace of Paris treaty that 
formally ended the Revolutionary War. 

September 30 

Publication: Through Looking to Learning: The Museum Adventure was pub- 
lished by the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, serving as a 
teachers' guidebook to Smithsonian education programs. 

September 30 

Travel: Accompanied by eight curators and scientists, eighty Smithsonian 
Associates began a two-week trip to the tropical rain forest of the Amazon 
River from Belem, Brazil, to Iquitos, Peru, to study the ecology of that 
region. 



I 



400 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Smithsonian Year • ip8} 
APPENDICES 



Organization Chart page 402-3 

1. Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and 
Commissions, September 30, 1983 404 

2. Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards 

Made October 1, 1982, through September 30, 1983 414 

3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1983 417 

4. Academic, Research Training, and Internship 

Appointments in Fiscal Year 1983 420 

5. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press 

in Fiscal Year 1983 441 

6. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution 

and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1983 451 

7. The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries, 

September 30, 1983 527 

8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1983 559 

9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution in 

Fiscal Year 1983 637 

10. Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1983 658 



401 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



AUDITOR 



THE SECRETARY* 
UNDER SECRETARY* 



TREASURER* 

Accounting Office 

Office of Grants and Risk Management 

Investment Accounting Division 

Business Management Office 

Concessions 

Food Service Division 

Mail Order Division 

Smithsonian Museum Shops 



GENERAL COUNSEL* 



Assistant Secretary for 
SCIENCE* 

National Air and Space Museum 
National Museum of Natural 

History/National Museum 
of Man 
National Zoological Park 
Office of Biological Conservation 
Office of Fellowships and Grants 
Smithsonian Astrophysical 

Observatory 
Smithsonian Environmental 

Research Center 
Smithsonian Tropical Research 

Institute 



Assistant Secretary for 
HISTORY AND ART* 

Anacostia Neighborhood 

Museum 
Archives of American Art 
Cooper-Hewitt Museum 
Freer Gallery of Art 
Hirshhorn Museum and 

Sculpture Garden 
Joseph Henry Papers 
Museum of African Art 
National Museum of American 

Art/Renwick Gallery 
National Museum of American 

History 
National Portrait Gallery 
Office of American Studies 



Assistant Secretary for 
MUSEUM PROGRAMS* 

Conservation Analytical 

Laboratory 
National Museum Act 
Office of Exhibits Central 
Office of Horticulture 
Office of International 

Activities 
Office of Museum Programs 
Office of Registrar 
Smithsonian Archives 
Smithsonian Institution 

Libraries 
Smithsonian Institution 

Traveling Exhibition Service 



Secretary's Executive Committee. 



r 



^ 



Under Separate Boards of Trustees: 

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR 
THE PERFORMING ARTS 

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

WOODROW WILSON 

INTERNATIONAL CENTER 

FOR SCHOLARS 



Coordinator of 

PUBLIC INFORMATION* 

Office of Congressional Liaison 
Office of Public Affairs 
Office of Special Events 



Director of 

MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT* 

Development Office 
Smithsonian National Associate 

Program 
Smithsonian Resident Associate 

Program 



Assistant Secretary for 
PUBLIC SERVICE* 

Office of Elementary and Secondary 

Education 
Office of Folklife Programs 
Office of Smithsonian Symposia 

and Seminars 
Office of Telecommunications 
Smithsonian Institution Press 
Smithsonian Magazine 
Visitor Information and Associates 

Reception Center 



Assistant Secretary for 
ADMINISTRATION* 

Contracts Office 

Office of Equal Opportunity 

Office of Facilities Services 

Office of Design and Construction 

Office of Plant Services 

Office of Protection Services 
Office of Information Resource 

Management 
Management Analysis Office 
Office of Personnel Administration 
Office of Printing and Photographic 

Services 
Office of Programming and Budget 
Office of Supply Services 
Travel Services Office 



APPENDIX 1. Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, 
and Commissions, September 30, 1983 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BOARD OF REGENTS 

Warren E. Burger, The Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Chancellor 
George H. Bush, The Vice-President of the United States, ex officio 

Edwin J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah 
Barry Goldwater, Senator from Arizona 
James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee 

Edward P. Boland, Representative from Massachusetts 
Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts 
Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California 

David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia 

Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas 

William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey 

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York 

Jeannine Smith Clark, citizen of the District of Columbia 

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California 

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania 

Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia 



SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL 



Gordon N. Ray, 

Chairman 
Dore Ashton 
Milo C. Beach 
Milton W. Brown 
Frederick B. Burkhardt 
William H. Davenport 
Anne d'Harnoncourt 



A. Hunter Dupree 
Frank B. Golley 
Stephen Jay Gould 
Neil Harris 
Ada Louise Huxtable 
Bennetta Jules-Rosette 
Sherman E. Lee 
Thomas E. Lovejoy 



Peter Marler 
David F. Musto 
Frank Oppenheimer 
Vera C. Rubin 
Carl E. Schorske 
Gunther SchuUer 
Barbara W. Tuchman 



ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES 

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Chairman 

Mr. A. Alfred Taubman, President 

Mrs. Nancy B. Negley, Vice-President 

Mr. Irvin A. Levy, Vice-President/Treasurer 

Mrs. Dana M. Raymond, Secretary 



Miss Caroline Alexander 
Mr. Henry deForest 

Baldwin 
Mrs. Eli Broad 
Mrs. George C. Dillon 
Mrs. Francis deMarneffe 
Mr. Joel S. Ehrenkranz 
Mrs. Ahmet M. Ertegun 
Mrs. Walter B. Ford II 



Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn 
Mrs. Henry C. Johnson 
Mr. John Lowell Jones 
Mrs. Dwight Kendall 
Mrs. Charles Kessler 
Mr. Gilbert H. Kinney 
Mr. Howard W. Lipman 
Mrs. Sam Maddux 
Mr. Richard Manoogian 



Mrs. Walter Maynard, Jr. 
Mr. Porter A. McCray 
Mr. Alexander R. Mehran 
Mrs. William L. Mitchell 
Mrs. Muriel Kallis Newman 
Mrs. John Rosekrans 
Mr. James Lawrence Wood 
Mr. C. Bagley Wright 



404 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



FOUNDING TRUSTEES 

Lawrence A. Fleischman Mrs. Edsel B. Ford 



E. P. Richardson 



HONORARY TRUSTEES 

Dr. Irving F. Burton 
Mr. Harold O. Love 



Mr. Russell Lynes 



Mrs. William L. Richards 



EX OFFICIO 

S. Dillon Ripley 



John E. Reinhardt 



ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART ADVISORY COMMITTEE 



NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 

Don Stover, 

Chairman 
Stanley Andersen 
Whittney Chadwick 
Wesley Chamberlin 
Herschel Chipp 

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 

Constance W. Glenn, 

Chairman 
E. Maurice Bloch 
Beatrice Farwell 



Wanda Corn 
James Elliott 
Albert Elsen 
Henry Hopkins 
Harvey Jones 
Margaretta Lovell 



Burton Fredericksen 
Richard Koshalek 
Susan C. Larsen 
Earl A. Powell III 



Chris Orr-Cahall 
Ian McKibbin White 
Bruce Guenther, 

Associate Member 



Moira Roth 
Josine lanco Starrels 
Maurice Tuchman 
Robert R. Wark 



WASHINGTON, D.C. 

Bernard Mergen, 

Chairman 
Marjory Balge 
Lorraine Brown 
David Driskell 
Charles Eldredge 

NEW ENGLAND 

Harley B. Holden, 

Chairman 
Winslow Ames 
Mr. and Mrs. 

George H. Bumgardner 
Carl Chiarenza 
Charles Ferguson 
Wolfgang M. Freitag 
Tom Froeudenheim 



Alan Fern 
Lois Fink 
Henry Glassie 
William Homer 
Charles Hummell 
Al Lerner 



Marc Pachter 
Phoebe Stanton 
John Vlach 
John Wilmerding 



Hugh Gourley James O'Gorman 

Elton W. Hall Stephen Riley 

Mr. Johnathan P. Harding David Ross 

Patricia Hills Laurence Schmeckebier 

Sinclair Hitchings Theodore Stebbins 

John Kirk Richard Teitz 

William Lipke Bryant F. Tolles 

Kenworth Moffett Peter Wick 

Elliott Offner Margaret Craver Withers 



NEW YORK 

Milton Brown, Lloyd Goodrich 

Chairman Eugene Gossen 
Thomas N. Armstrong III James J. Heslin 

John Baur John Howat 

Anne d'Harnoncourt James Humphrey III 

John Dobkin Bernard Karpel 

William Gerdts John A. Kouwenhoven 



Abram Lerner 
Russell Lynes 
Barbara Novak 
Clive Phillpot 
Jules D. Prown 
Joseph T. Rankin 
William B. Walker 



Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions I 405 



NORTHWEST ORAL HISTORY PROJECT 



Pauline Eyerly 
Don Foster 
Bruce Guenther 



LaMar Harrington 
Martha Kingsbury 
Arlene Schnitzer 



Harvey West 
Virginia Wright 



John Biggers 
Alice Brown 
William Camfield 
Linda Cathcart 
Nina Cullinan 
Dominique de Menil 
Louise Ferrari 



Eleanor Freed 
Carolyn Farb 
Mimi Kilgore 
Caroline Law 
Elizabeth H. Maddux 
Betty B. Marcus 
Peter C. Marzio 



Margaret McDermott 
Lupe Murchison 
Bill Robinson 
Joan Seeman Robinson 
David Warren 



COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM ADVISORY COUNCIL 



August Heckscher, 

Chairman 
Karen Johnson Boyd 
Amanda Burden 
Rosemary Corroon 
Joan K. Davidson 



Joanne du Font 
Harmon Coldstone 
Russell Lynes 
Gilbert C. Maurer 
Kenneth Miller 
Arthur Ross 



Robert Sarnoff 
Marietta Tree 
S. Dillon Ripley, 

ex officio 
John Reinhardt, 

ex officio 



FOLKUFE ADVISORY COUNCIL 



Wilcomb E. Washburn, 

Chairman 
Roger Abrahams 
Richard Ahlborn 



William Fitzhugh 
Lloyd Herman 
Robert Laughlin 
Scott Odell 



Ralph Rinzler 
Peter Seitel 
Thomas Vennum 



FREER VISITING COMMITTEE 



Mrs. Jackson Burke 
Kwang-chih Chang 
Marvin Eisenberg 
Katharine Graham 



Porter McCray 
Norman Y. Mineta 
John M. Rosenfield 
Hugh Scott 



Laurence Sickman 
Priscilla P. Soucek 
Richard Weatherhead 



HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES 



Charles Blitzer 
Anne d'Harnoncourt 
Thomas M. Evans 
Jerome Greene 

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio 
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio 



Daniel P. Moynihan, 

Chairman 
Sydney Lewis, 

Vice-Chairman 



Dorothy Miller 
Leonard C. Yaseen 



406 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



HORTICULTURE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

James R. Buckler, Jimmie L. Crowe Carlton Lees 

Chairman Belva Jensen 

ORCHID SUBCOMMITTEE 

Edward S. Ayensu Paul E. Desautels Mary Ripley 

James R. Buckler Paul N. Perrot 



JOINT SPONSORING COMMITTEE FOR THE 
PAPERS OF JOSEPH HENRY 

Frederick Seitz, John E. Reinhardt Jean R. St. Clair 

Chairman S. Dillon Ripley Henry D. Smyth 

Whitfield J. Bell, Jr. 



NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD 

S. Dillon Ripley, Donald M. Koll 

Chairman Lt. Gen. James H. Merryman, USA 

Phillip E. Culbertson James P. Moore, Jr. 

Michael J. Fenello Jacqueline A. Ponder 

Lt. Gen. William H. Fitch, L7SMC Vice Adm. Robert F. Schoultz, USN 

Gen. Charles A. Gabriel, USAF Vice Adm. Benedict L. Stabile, USCC 



NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM VISITING COMMITTEE 

Alexander H. Flax Lt. Gen. James T. Stewart, USAF (Ret.) 

Gerald K. O'Neill Richard R. Whitcomb 

Leon T. Silver 



NATIONAL ARMED FORCES MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD 

Harry W. Brooks, Jr., U.S. Army, retired 

Andrew J. Goodpaster, Lt. Gen., U.S. Army, retired 

Mylio S. Kraja 

Lauro Neri 

George W. Pirtle, Jr. 

Theodore Ropp 

Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Defense, ex officio 

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio 



ADVISORY COUNCIL FOR THE NATIONAL MUSEUM ACT 

Paul N. Perrot, Donald V. Hague Roger Mandle 

Chairman Perry C. Huston Joyce H. Stoner 

George H. Abrams Watson M. Laetsch Bret Waller 

James H. Duff Thomas W. Leavitt Jean M. Weber 



Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions I 407 



NATIONAL BOARD OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES 



Secretary to the Board: Mr. Arthur W. Gardner 



Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin, 

Chairman 
Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton 
Mr. Arthur G. Altschul 
Mr. Perry R. Bass 
Honorable Lucius D. Battle 
Mr. William W. 

Boeschenstein 
Honorable Nicholas F. Brady 
Mr. James H. Clement 



Mr. David L. Coffin 

Mr. James A. Elkins, Jr. 

Mr. Marshall Field 

Mr. Gordon Hanes 

Mr. John F. Harrigan 

Mrs. Parker T. Hart 

Mr. Richard D. Hill 

Honorable Carla Anderson Hills 

Mr. Samuel C. Johnson 

Mr. Seymour H. Knox III 



Mr. Brooks McCormick 
Mr. Arjay Miller 
Mrs. George M. Seignious II 
Mr. David E. Skinner 
Mr. Roger B. Smith 
Mrs. Edson W. Spencer 
Mr. Malcolm T. Stamper 
Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr. 
Mrs. Peter Wray 
Mr. Parke Wright 



HONORARY MEMBERS 

Mr. William S. Anderson Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr. Honorable George C. McGhee 

Mr. Richard P. Cooley Mr. William A. Hewitt Justice Sandra D. O'Connor 

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr. Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr. 

Honorable Leonard K. Firestone Mr. Lewis A. Lapham Mr. Merritt Kirk Ruddock 

Honorable Thomas J. Watson, Jr. 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART COMMISSION 



Sylvia Ardyn Boone 
Lee Bronson 
David Driskell 
John Duncan 
Frances Humphrey 

Howard 
Richard Long 



John Loughran 
Frank Moss 
Robert Nooter 
Susan Samuels 
Michael Sonnenreich 
Robert Farris Thompson 
Walter Washington 



Franklin Williams 
John E. Reinhardt, 

ex officio 
5. Dillon Ripley, 

ex officio 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART NATIONAL COUNCIL 



Joseph James Akston 

Arthur Ashe 

James Avery 

Ernie Barnes 

Saul Bellow 

Julian Bond 

John Brademas 

Dona Bronson 

Edward W. Brooke 

Joseph Campbell 

Rep. John Conyers 

Ossie Davis 

Lula Dawson 

Rep. Donald Dellums 

Barbaralee Diamonstein 

Charles Diggs 

Ofield Dukes 

Joanne duPont 

Ralph Ellison 

John Hope Franklin 

James Gibson 

Dick Gregory 

Chaim Gross 



Lily Polk Guest 

Alex Haley 

George Haley 

Eliot Halperin 

Geoffrey Holder 

Rep. Frank Horton 

Muriel Humphrey Brown 

David Lloyd Kreeger 

Jacob Lawrence 

Vera List 

J. Bruce Llewellyn 

Mary McFadden 

Robert McNamara 

Stanley Marcus 

Rae Alexander Minter 

Clarence Mitchell 

Nancy Negley 

Mace Neufeld 

Dorothy Porter 

Vincent Price 

Benjamin Quarles 

Milton Ratner 

Michael Rea 



Saunders Redding 
Norman B. Robbins 
Harold Rome 
Bayard Rustin 
Sen. Hugh Scott 
Stanley Scott 
Evelyn Sessler 
Mabel Smythe 
David Stratmon 
Lynette Taylor 
Anne Teabeau 
Maurice Tempelsman 
Paul Tishman 
Sterling Tucker 
Mike Wallace 
G. Mennen Williams 
Isabel Wilson 
Lester Wunderman 
Elizabeth Bouey Yates 
Andrew Young 
Nicholas Zervas 



408 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART COMMISSION 



Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy, 

Chairman 
Thomas S. Buechner, 

Vice-Chairman 
S. Dillon Ripley, 

Secretary, ex officio 
Donald Anderson 
Mrs. Hampton Barnes 
Mrs. Elizabeth Brooke Blake 
Walker Hancock 
R. Philip Hanes, Jr. 



HONORARY MEMBERS 

Martin Friedman 
Henry P. Mcllhenny 
Paul Mellon 



Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr. 
August Heckscher 
Thomas C. Howe 
Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume 
Richard L. Hunt 
R. Crosby Kemper 
David Lloyd Kreeger 
Abram Lerner, 
ex officio 



Ogden Pleissner 
Edgar P. Richardson 



Philip Pearlstein 

David S. Purvis 

George Segal 

Mrs. Oliver Seth 

Mrs. John Farr Simmons 

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth 

George B. Tatum 

Mrs. Charles Bagley Wright 



Charles H. Sawyer 
Andrew Wyeth 



NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY COMMISSION 



Senator Barry Goldwater, Thomas Mellon Evans 

Chairman Katie Louchheim 

Robert O. Anderson Robert L. McNeil, Jr. 

Barry Bingham, Sr. Senator Robert Morgan 



Barbara Novak 
Robert Hilton Smith 
Frank Stanton 
Barbara Tuchman 



J. Carter Brown, Director, National Gallery of Art, ex officio 
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio 
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio 



OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE, 

W. K. KELLOGG FOUNDATION PROJECT 



Paul N. Perrot, 
Chairman 

Jane R. Glaser, 
ex officio 

Janet Solinger, 
ex officio 



Richard Fiske 
J. O. Grantham 
Neil Harris 
Philip S. Humphrey 
Watson Laetsch 
Abram Lerner 



William F. McSweeny 
Richard H. Randall, Jr. 
Adelle Robertson 
Susan Stitt 
Michael Templeton 



SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM 
Archeology and Related Disciplines Advisory Council 



Barbara Stoler Miller 
Michael Moffatt 
Bruno Nettl 



Barbara Ramusack 
William Trousdale 
Edward Wente 



Charles Redman 
(observer) 



Astrophysics and Earth Sciences Advisory Council 

Felix Chayes William Klein Victor Szebehely 

Irwin Shapiro Thornton Page Louis Walter 

Systematic and Environmental Biology Advisory Council 
Roger Cressey B. Jane Harrington Richard H. Tedford 



Lafayette Frederick 



Richard Highton 



David Young 



Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions I 409 



SMITHSONIAN WOMEN'S COMMITTEE 1983-84 



Chairman: 

Mrs. Parker T. Hart 
Vice-Chairman: 

Mrs. Peter T. Russell 
Secretary: 

Mrs. J. Edward Day 
Assistant Secretary: 

Mrs. James M. Beggs 
Treasurer: 

Mrs. William T. Hamilton 
Assistant Treasurer: 

Mrs. George W. Jones 
Christmas Dance Cochairmen: 

Mrs. C. Michael Price 

Mrs. Albert Barclay, Jr. 

Mrs. David C. Acheson 
Mrs. Donald Alexander 
Mrs. Huntington T. Block 
Mrs. Philip Bowie 
Mrs. Adelyn Breeskin 
Mrs. I. Townsend Burden III 
Mrs. George Bush 
Mrs. Thomas J. Camp, Jr. 
Mrs. Richard Cobb 
Mrs. James L. Collins, Jr. 
Mrs. Thomas E. Crocker 
Mrs. Stuart C. Davidson 
Mrs. Avery Faulkner 
Mrs. George C. Gerger 
Mrs. John Worden Gill 
Mrs. Robert Reed Gray 
Mrs. Karl G. Harr, Jr. 
Mrs. Walter Hodges 
Mrs. Edgar W. Holtz 
Mrs. Donald W. Jeffries 



Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly III 

Mrs. Roger G. Kennedy 

Mrs. Robert Koehler 

Mrs. Henry Krieger 

Mrs. Nevin E. Kuhl 

Mrs. George Varick Lauder 

Mrs. James Lehrer 

Mrs. Malcolm Maclntyre 

Mrs. Bruce MacLaury 

Mrs. Henry Roemer McPhee 

Mrs. Donald Notman 

Mrs. Lawrence Bruce Olds 

Mrs. Richard R. Palmer 

Mrs. James R. Patton, Jr. 

Mrs. Horace White Peters 

Mrs. Richard Powell 

Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley 

Mrs. Thomas M. Roberts 

Kirby Rodriquez 

Mrs. Robert E. Rogers 

Mrs. John T. Sapienza 

Mrs. W. Jerrold Scoutt, Jr. 

Mrs. Leonard Silverstein 

Mrs. Howard Smith, Jr. 

Mrs. Wells Stabler 

Mrs. Potter Stewart 

Mrs. James McKim Symington 

Mrs. Thomas K. Taylor 

Mrs. Richard L. Thompson 

Mrs. Robert D. van Roijen 

Mrs. Charles Verrill 

Mrs. Edmund Wellington, Jr. 

Mrs. Edwin M. Wheeler 

Mrs. Robert S. Wilkinson 

Mrs. Laurence I. Wood 



VJOODROVJ WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES 



William J. Baroody, Jr., 

Chairman 
Robert A. Mosbacher, 

Vice-Chairman 
James A. Baker III 
Theodore C. Barreaux 



William J. Bennett 
Daniel J. Boorstin 
Kenneth B. Clark 
Stuart E. Eizenstat 
Margaret M. Heckler 
Max M. Kampelman 



Jesse H. Oppenheimer 
S. Dillon Ripley 
Anne Firor Scott 
George P. Shultz 
Robert M. Warner 
Charles Z. Wick 



JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES 



Honorary Chairmen 

Mrs. Ronald Reagan 
Mrs. Jimmy Carter 
Mrs. Gerald Ford 



Mrs. Richard M. Nixon 
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson 
Mrs. Aristotle Onassis 



410 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Officers 

Roger L. Stevens, 

Chairman 
Senator Charles H. Percy, 

Vice-Chairman 
Henry Strong, 

Vice-Chairman 
Frank Ikard, 

Secretary 
Charlotte Woolard, 

Assistant Secretary 
VV. Jarvis Moody, 

Treasurer 



Harry C. McPherson, Jr. 

General Counsel 
William Becker, 

Associate Counsel 
James F. Rogers, 

Assistant Treasurer 
John J. Ronveaux, 

Assistant Treasurer 
Henry Strong, 

Assistant Treasurer 



Members Appointed by the President of the United States 



Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr. 

Mrs. Edward T. Breathitt 

Marshall B. Coyne 

Richmond D. Crinkley 

June Oppen Degnan 

Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen 

J. William Fulbright 

Cary Grant 

Mrs. William Lee Hanley, Jr. 

Orval Hansen 

Mrs. Bob Hope 

Frank Ikard 

Mrs. Earle Jorgensen 

[Appointed 9/83] 
Melvin R. Laird 
Marjorie M. Lawson 
Mrs. J. Willard Marriott 



Dina Merrill 

Joan Mondale 

Donna Stone Pesch 

Gerald M. Rafshoon 

Mrs. Abraham Ribicoff 

Jean Kennedy Smith 

John G. Spatuzza 

Roger L. Stevens 

Mrs. Theodore H. Strauss 

Henry Strong 

Donna Tuttle 

[Resigned 9/83] 
Jack J. Valenti 
Lew R. Wasserman 
Mrs. Jack Wrather 
Efrem Zimbalist, Jr. 



Members Ex Officio Designated by Act of Congress 



Margaret H. Heckler, Secretary of 
Health and Human Services 

T. H. Bell, Secretary of Education 

Charles Z. Wick, Director, 

United States Information Agency 

Senator James A. McClure 

Senator Edward M. Kennedy 

Senator Charles H. Percy 

Representative Joseph M. McDade 

Representative Charles Wilson 

Representative Sidney R. Yates 

Marion S. Barry, Mayor, 
District of Columbia 



S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, 

Smithsonian Institution 
Daniel J. Boorstin, Librarian 

of Congress 
J. Carter Brown, Chairman of the 

Commission of Fine Arts 
Russell E. Dickenson, Director, 

National Park Service 
F. Alexis H. Roberson, Director, 

District of Columbia Department 

of Recreation 



Honorary Trustees 

Mrs. George A. Garrett 
Ralph E. Becker 
Mrs. Albert Lasker 



Mrs. Jouett Shouse 
Mrs. J. Clifford Folger 



Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions I 411 



President's Advisory Committee on the Arts 



Herbert Hutner, Chairman 

Los Angeles, California 
Margaret Archambault 

Chicago, Illinois 
Robert D. Bain 

Bismarck, North Dakota 
Joy S. Burns 

Englewood, Colorado 
Charles Camalier, Jr. 

Potomac Falls, Maryland 
Claire Chambers 

Bloomfield Hills, Michigan 
Margot Denny 

Anchorage, Alaska 
William M. Fine 

New York, New York 
Richard A. Gallun 

Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
Beverly Gosnell 

Charleston, South Carolina 
Cynthia Crassby* 

Denver, Colorado 
Carl Halvorson 

Lake Oswego, Oregon 
Leota Hayes 

Jackson, Mississippi 
T. David Higgins 

South Charleston, West Virginia 
Martin B. Hoffman 

Needham, Massachusetts 
Stephen Jernigan 

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 
Gerald Kirke* 

Des Moines, Iowa 
Gary Levine* 

Bellevue, Washington 
Peggy Mallick 

Casper, Wyoming 
John Marsh* 

Gainesville, Virginia 
Alyne Massey 

Nashville, Tennessee 
Julia M. McCabe 

Wilmington, Delaware 
Virginia McCann 

Short Hills, New Jersey 
Millicent L. Monks 

Cape Elizabeth, Maine 
Julie P. Montgomery 

Atlanta, Georgia 



Lindsay J. Morgenthaler 

Cleveland, Ohio 
Jim Nelson 

Rapid City, South Dakota 
Jeanette Nichols 

Shawnee Mission, Kansas 
Betty Noe 

New Orleans, Louisiana 
H. Davison Osgood, Jr.* 

Scarborough, Maine 
K. Voith Penberthy* 

Paradise Valley, Arizona 
Ann S. Penberthy 

Paradise Valley, Arizona 
John Piercey 

Salt Lake City, Utah 
Millie Pogna 

Albuquerque, New Mexico 
Gladys Prescott 

West Palm Beach, Florida 
Chesley Pruet 

El Dorado, Arkansas 
Ann Rydalch 

Idaho Falls, Idaho 
Hugh K. Schilling 

Minneapolis, Minnesota 
William Siems 

Billings, Montana 
Harriet Slaybaugh 

Montpelier, Vermont 
Eileen Slocum 

Newport, Rhode Island 
Charles C. Spalding 

Honolulu, Hawaii 
Richard Taylor 

Potomac, Maryland 
Dr. Paul Tessier 

New Castle, New Hampshire 
James Thompson 

Louisville, Kentucky 
Judith Thompson 

Birmingham, Alabama 
Diane Ushinski 

Shavertown, Pennsylvania 
Dorothy Vannerson 

Sugar Land, Texas 
Joseph Vetrano 

Bristol, Connecticut 
Judith Woods 

St. Louis, Missouri 



*Members resigned during 1982-83 



412 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES 

Paul Mellon, Carlisle H. Humelsine Franklin D. Murphy 

Chairman Ruth Carter Johnson John R. Stevenson 

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio 

George P. Shultz, Secretary of State, ex officio 

Donald T. Regan, Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio 

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION WOMEN'S COUNCIL 

Betty Beuck, Carolyn Thompson, 

Chairperson Treasurer 

Sherrill Berger, Joanna Scherer, 

Vice-Chairperson Historian 

Ann Gilstrap, 
Secretary 

Martha Cappelletti Julie Hoover 

Prudence Clendenning Susan Jewett 

Audrey Davis Margaret Santiago 

Linda DuBro Linda St. Thomas 

Marge D'Urso Deborah Warner 

Roberta Geier Miriam Weissman 

Margery Gordon Edith Whiteman 



Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions I 413 



APPENDIX 2. Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program 
Awards Made October 1, 1982, through 
September 30, 1983 



ARCHEOLOGY AND RELATED DISCIPLINES 
(INCLUDING ANTHROPOLOGY) 

American Institute of Indian Studies, Chicago, Illinois. Continued support for 
administration; research fellowships; Center for Art and Archeology; Center 
for Ethnomusicology; Gujarat prehistoric project II; encyclopedia of Indian 
philosophies; conference on Hindi language. 

American Research Center in Egypt, Princeton, New Jersey. Operation of Cen- 
ter in Cairo; fellowship program in the study of archeology and related disci- 
plines in Egypt; continuation of the architectural and epigraphic survey of 
Egypt; archeological investigations of Qasr Ibrim; archeological investigations 
of Wadi Tumilat. 

Boston University, Massachusetts. Women's work and family life (India). 

Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. South Indian pastoralism. 

Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York. 
Indo-American fellowship program. 

Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. Prehistory of Egypt. 

State University of New York, Binghamton. Effects of Roman Colonial system 
in Serbia, Yugoslavia. 

Syracuse University, New York. Changing lives: Karimpur Village (India). 

Tufts University, Boston, Massachusetts. Use of Indo-English for poetry. 

University of California, Berkeley. Excavations at Opovo-Bajbuk (Yugoslavia) ; 
Himalayan region conference (India and Pakistan); paleoclimatic studies of 
the Son Valley, India; shell manufacturing industry at Moenjodaro (Pakistan); 
archeological explorations at Balakot (Pakistan). 

University of Chicago, Illinois. The subcontinental empire and the regional 
kingdom in Indian state formation. 

University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico. Vijayanagara : Urban 
space in a medieval Hindu imperial capital (India). 

University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. Conference on 20th century litera- 
ture (India); workshop on Late Cenozoic paleoclimatic changes (India); status, 
class and dominance patterns of politico-economic change in modern India. 

University of Minnesota, Minneapolis. International conference on Kharako- 
rum culture (Pakistan). 

University of Missouri, Columbia. International Punjab Studies Conference. 

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Garo language and society (India); 
Ajanta caves (India). 



414 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



University of Wisconsin, Madison. Analysis of Advaita Hindu monastic rit- 
uals and observances. 

University of Houston, Texas. Restudy of Khalapur village, India. 

University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras. Women's movement in Bengal (India). 

SYSTEMATIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY 
(INCLUDING PALEOBIOLOGY) 

Boston University, Massachusetts. Growth rates of tropical trees (India). 

Central Washington University, EUenburg, Washington. Systematics of Rhy- 
cophilidae (India). 

Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Anthropological and paleontologi- 
cal research into the fossil anthropoid sites of the Egyptian Oligocene. 

Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Later Miocene hominoids 
(Pakistan). 

Howard University, Washington, D.C. Cenozoic mammals of Pakistan. 

Iowa State University, Ames. U.S. participation in the Indian environmental 

congress. 

Lamont Geological Laboratory, Columbia University, Palisades, New York. 
Ecology and paleoecology of planktonic foraminefera (India). 

National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D.C. Aquatic coleoptera 
of Hutovo Blato (Yugoslavia); recovery of putative Neanderthal remains 
(Egypt); systematics of the echuira/sipuncula of India; bird population survey 
of the Eastern Ghats, India; pictorial guide to the birds of the Indian sub- 
continent. 

National Zoological Park, Washington, D.C. Workshop on elephant conserva- 
tion (India); fruit-like and frugivorous pollinators (India). 

Pennsylvania State University, University, Pennsylvania. Comparative study 
of Old World and New World tiger beetle community structure (India). 

Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey. Comparative ecology of foraging 
behavior of Apis (India). 

Smithsonian Office of Biological Conservation, Washington, D.C. Consultation 
on Indian environment. 

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Balboa, Panama. Cooperative phe- 
nology program (India). 

Southern Illinois University, Carbondale. The occlusal epidemiological transi- 
tion in population of North India; genetic analysis of dental occlusion (India). 

Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. Pleistocene pollen studies 
(Pakistan). 

University of Massachusetts, Boston. Erosion of biological diversity (India); 
conversion rates of Indian forests. 

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. The burrowing amphibians of India; fig 
wasps and sexual selection (India). 

University of Minnesota, Minneapolis. Tiger monitoring system (India). 

University of North Dakota, Grand Forks. Reproductive biology of the mugger 
crocodile (India). 



Appendix 2. Special Foreign Currency Program Awards I 415 



University of Oregon, Pullman. Patterns of dental variation (India). 

University of Washington, Seattle. Conference on the environment and hor- 
mones (India). 

ASTROPHYSICS AND EARTH SCIENCES 

American Physical Society, New York, New York. International cosmic ray 
physics conference (India). 

Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Observa- 
tion of quasars with x-ray properties (India). 

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Confer- 
ence on energetic extra galactic sources (India). 

University of Arizona, Tucson. Late quaternary geochronology (Egypt). 

University of Maryland, College Park. Second Indo-U.S. workshop on solar/ 
terrestrial physics. 

University of Minnesota, Minneapolis. Paleomagnetic and paleoclimatic 
studies of Indian lake sediments. 

Washington State University, Pullman. Fission track determination of uranium 
sediments in sandstone (India). 

MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Museum ex- 
changes (India); zoological collections workshop (India). 

Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York. 
Joint Indo-U.S. programs. 

National Museum of American Art, Washington, D.C. Indian crafts exhibition. 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. Museum program for disabled 
children (India); model-making workshop (Egypt); folk art exchange (India). 

State University of New York, Stony Brook. Fossil preparation in the Geologic 
Museum, Cairo. 



416 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



APPENDIX 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded 
in Fiscal Year 1 983 



GRADUATE/PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING 

Columbia University, New York, New York 

New York State Historical Association, Cooperstown, New York 

New York University, New York, New York 

University of Delaware (Program in Early American Culture, Conservation 
Program), Newark, Delaware 

Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 

MUSEUM INTERNSHIPS 

Afro-American Historical and Cultural Museum, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 

Denver Art Museum, Denver, Colorado 

Greater Los Angeles Zoo Association, Los Angeles, California 

Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, Missouri 

Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts 

New York Botanical Garden, Bronx, New York 

Northeast Document Conservation Center, Andover, Massachusetts 

Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 

University of California, Los Angeles Museum of Cultural History, 

Los Angeles, California 

Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 

STIPENDS TO INDIVIDUALS FOR 
CONSERVATION STUDIES 

Roberta Chalfant, Columbia University, New York, New York 

James Coddington, Phillips Collection, Washington, D.C. 

Michael Connolly, Indianapolis Museum of Art, Indianapolis, Indiana 

Kathleen Dardes, Textile Conservation Centre, Surrey, England 

Suzanne Deal, Museum of International Folk Art, Santa Fe, New Mexico 

Antoinette Dwan, Winterthur Museum, Winterthur, Delaware 

Madeleine W. Fang, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada 

Appendix 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded I 417 



Sarah Gates, Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, San Francisco, California 

Julie Goldman, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada 

Holly Hotchner, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York 

Jane Ketcham, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada 

Lucy Kinsolving, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York 

Irene Konefal, Winterthur Museum, Winterthur, Delaware 

Candy Jean Kuhl, Courtauld Institute of Art, London, England 

Barbara Mangum, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts 

Melissa Meighan, Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, Maryland 

Alice Faterakis, American School of Classical Studies, Athens, Greece 

Paul Rabin, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada 

Anne Rosenthal, Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, San Francisco, 
California 

Martha Rothwarf, Textile Conservation Centre, Surrey, England 

Robert Sawchuck, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York 

Ann Schelpert, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada 

Donna Strahan, Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, Maryland 

Nancy Lane Terry, Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, Texas 

Joann Yam, Detroit Institute of Arts, Detroit, Michigan 

SEMINARS 

American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee 
Arizona Commission on the Arts, Phoenix, Arizona 
Association of Science-Technology Centers, Washington, D.C. 
George Washington University, Washington, D.C. 
National Trust for Historic Preservation, Washington, D.C. 
Northeast Document Conservation Center, Andover, Massachusetts 
Southern Arts Federation, Atlanta, Georgia 
Textile Conservation Workshop, South Salem, New York 
Washington Park Zoo, Portland, Oregon 

SPECIAL STUDIES AND RESEARCH 

Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York 

New York State Historical Association, Cooperstown, New York 

North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina 

Pomerantz Institute for the Advancement of Fine Arts Conservation, 

Spring Grove, Illinois 

Rochester Institute of Technology, Rochester, New York 
Zoological Society of San Diego, San Diego, California 

418 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



SERVICES TO THE FIELD 

Afro-American Museums Association, Washington, D.C. 

American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee 

American Association of Museums, Washington, D.C. 

Minnesota Zoological Gardens, Apple Valley, Minnesota 

National Institute for the Conservation of Cultural Property, Washington, D.C. 



Appendix 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded I 419 



APPENDIX 4. Academic, Research Training, and Internship 
Appointments in Fiscal Year 1982 



ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH TRAINING APPOINTMENTS 

The Smithsonian offers, through the Office of Fellowships and Grants, research 
and study appointments to visiting scientists, scholars, and students. These 
appointees are provided access to the Institution's facilities, staff specialties, 
and reference resources. The persons — listed by bureau, office, or division — in 
this Appendix began their residencies between October 1, 1982, and September 
30, 1983. Predoctoral fellows are designated as Ph.D candidates, and graduate 
student fellows are marked in addition with an asterisk. Postdoctoral fellows. 
Visiting Scientists and Scholars, holders of special awards, and participants in 
special programs are so listed. The institution where each individual received, 
or expects to receive, the degree, or the home university or institution of cer- 
tain Visiting Scientists or Scholars, is listed. A brief description of the project 
to be undertaken at the Smithsonian is included where appropriate. The fel- 
low's or visitor's host bureau or office and the Smithsonian adviser are also 
listed. 

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART 

William Agee, Senior Visiting Scholar. Past Director of the Museum of Fine 
Arts, Houston. American art, 1910 to 1945 with emphasis on continuing tradi- 
tions of modern American art and its relation to art internationally, with Wil- 
liam Woolfenden, from February 1 through December 31, 1983. 
Tritobia Benjamin, Visiting Faculty Scholar, Department of Art, Howard Uni- 
versity. A resource guide to the artists and artifacts of Afro-Americans in the 
Smithsonian, with Garnett McCoy, from June 1 through August 31. 1983. 

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY 

Albert Jornet-Marginet, Ph.D., University of Fribourg. Chemical and minera- 
logical characterization of Spanish majolica, with Jacqueline Olin, from Octo- 
ber 1, 1982, through June 30, 1984. 

Christopher Nagle, Ph.D. candidate, Brandeis University. Physical analysis of 
eastern Arctic nephrites, with Jacqueline Olin, Dr. James Blackman, and Dr. 
William Fitzhugh, Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural 
History, from April 1, 1983, through March 31, 1984. 

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM 

Leonard Amico,* Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. The ceramics of Bernard 
Palissy, with David McFadden, Department of Decorative Arts, from June 15 
through August 30, 1983. 

Sir Francis Watson, Smithsonian Institution Regents Fellow. Guest Scholar, 
J. Paul Getty Museum; director, Wallace Collection, London; and Surveyor of 
the Queen's Works of Art, retired. The historical production of furniture, gilt 
bronze, and other decorative arts and their cultural significance, with the 
director and staff, from October 1, 1982 through December 31, 1983. 



420 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Carol Willis, Ph.D. candidate, Columbia University. American skyscrapers; 
theory and design in the 1920s and 1930s, with Elaine Evans Dee, Department 
of Prints and Drawings, from September 1, 1983, through August 31, 1984. 

FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Timothy Clark,* Ph.D. candidate. Harvard University. Japanese 'ukiyo' paint- 
ings in the Freer Gallery of Art, with Dr. Yoshiaki Shimizu and Dr. John 
Winter, from June 6 through August 12, 1983. 

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 

Melissa Dabakis, Ph.D. candidate, Boston University. The life and art of Saul 
Baizerman, with Valerie Fletcher, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from 
September 1, 1983, through August 31, 1984. 

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM 

John M. Bruce, Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History. Keeper of Aircraft and 
Research Studies, The Royal Air Force Museum, London. The manufacture of 
British aircraft in the United States during World War I, with the director and 
staff, from September 1, 1983, through October 31, 1984. 

Peter Grosz, A. Verville Fellow. Consultant, International Research Consul- 
tants, Inc. The development of Austro-Hungarian aircraft during 1914-1918, 
with Donald Lopez, Department of Aeronautics, from September 1, 1983, 
through August 31, 1984. 

Martin O. Harwit, National Air and Space Museum Chair in Space History. 
Department of Astronomy, Cornell University. The role of theory in astro- 
nomical discovery, a history, with the director and staff of the National Air 
and Space Museum, from January 3 through June 30, 1983. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART 

Frances Connelly, Ph.D. candidate. University of Pittsburgh. The origins of 
development of primitivism in 19th century French art and aesthetics, with 
Dr. Roy Sieber, from May 15 through August 14, 1983. 

John Wembah-Rashid, Visiting Scholar. Ph.D., University of Illinois. Masks 
and masked dancing in Tanzania, with Edward Lifschitz, from July 1 through 
August 31, 1983. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART 

Martha Anderson, Ph.D. candidate. University of Maryland. The indigenous 
roots of New York Dada, with Dr. Lillian Miller, editor, Charles Willson 
Peale Papers, National Portrait Gallery, from June 1, 1983, through May 31, 
1984. 

Sarah Boehme, Ph.D. candidate, Bryn Mawr College. Seth Eastman's illustra- 
tions for Henry Schoolcraft's "Historical and Statistical Information Respect- 
ing the History, Condition and Prospects of the Indian Tribes of the United 
States," with Dr. Lois Fink, Office of Research and Fellowships, from Septem- 
ber 1, 1983, through August 31, 1984. 

Elizabeth Broun, Ph.D., University of Kansas. American students of Jean-Leon 
Gerome, with Dr. Charles Eldredge, director, and Dr. Lois Fink, Office of 
Research and Fellowships, from September 1, 1983, through July 31, 1984. 
Ralph T. Coe, Visiting Scholar. Past president of the Association of Art Mu- 
seum Directors and former director of the Nelson Gallery of Art, Kansas City. 
The survival of traditional Indian crafts, with Dr. Charles Eldredge, director, 
from November 1, 1982, through October 31, 1983. 



Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments I All 



Betsy Fahlman, Ph.D., University of Delaware. The art of John Ferguson Weir, 
1841-1926, with Dr. Lois Fink, Office of Research and Fellowships, from Sep- 
tember 1, 1983, through August 31, 1984. 

Elizabeth Johns, Visiting Scholar. Ph.D., Emory University. Study of 19th- 
century American artists who have been notably mythologized, with Dr. 
Charles Eldredge, director, from June 13 through August 19, 1983. 
Dennis Montagna, Ph.D. candidate. University of Delaware. Covernment-sp on- 
sored public sculpture in Washington, D.C., 1895-1920, with Dr. Lois Fink, 
Office of Research and Fellowships, from October 1, 1982, through September 
30, 1983. 

Sara Parrott, Ph.D. candidate, George Washington University. Expatriates and 
professionals; Italian careers of American women writers and artists horn be- 
tween 1810 and 1850, with Dr. Lillian Miller, editor, Charles Willson Peale 
Papers, National Portrait Gallery, from September 1, 1983, through August 31, 
1984. 

Elizabeth Tebow, Ph.D. candidate. University of Maryland. The poetic muse; 
preoccupation with the ideal, the mythical and the imagination in American 
painting, with Dr. Lois Fink, Office of Research and Fellowships, from July 1 
through December 31, 1983. 

Jerry Waters, Visiting Faculty Scholar. Department of Art, Fisk University. 
Aspects of the religious paintings of Henry Ossawa Tanner, with Dr. Lois 
Fink, Office of Research and Fellowships, from May 30 through August 12, 
1983. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY 

Cynthia Costello, Ph.D., University of Wisconsin. From typewriter to word 
processor; technology, ideology, and work in the office, 1880-1910 and 1950- 
1980, with Dr. David Noble, Department of the History of Science and Tech- 
nology, from September 1, 1983, through August 31, 1984. 

Thomas J. Davis, Visiting Faculty Scholar. Department of History, Howard 
University. A social history of black New Yorkers during slavery and freedom, 
with Dr. James Horton, Afro-American Communities Project, from January 1 
through June 30, 1983. 

Scott Ellsworth, George Mason University/Smithsonian Institution Joint Fel- 
lowship. Ph.D., Duke University. To reclaim the dispossessed; material culture 
and everday life of the Okies, with Carl Scheele, Department of Social and 
National History, from September 1, 1983, through June 30, 1984. 
Gladys-Marie Fry, Visiting Faculty Scholar. Department of English, University 
of Maryland. A Knot in the Thread; slave quilting in the ante-bellum South, 
with Doris Bowman, Department of Social and National History, from June 1 
through September 30, 1983. 

Jerry Frye, Ph.D., University of Michigan. Images of women in American 
advertising, with Edith Mayo, Department of Social and National History, 
from September 1, 1983, through August 31, 1984. 

Luvenia George, Visiting Graduate Student. Ph.D. candidate. University of 
Maryland, Baltimore. A study and analysis of the gospel hymns and songs of 
Lucie Eddie Campbell, with Dr. Bernice Reagon, Office of Public and Aca- 
demic Programs, from June 27 through August 27, 1983. 

Patricia Gossel, Ph.D. candidate, Johns Hopkins University. The origins of 
bacteriology as a discipline in American Science, 1880-1900, with Dr. Ramu- 
nas Kondratas, Department of the History of Science and Technology, from 
June 1, 1983, through May 31, 1984. 

Sharon Harley, Ph.D., Howard University. Hidden bonds of womanhood; race, 
gender, and class in the Nation's Capital, 1890-1920, with Edith Mayo, De- 



422 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



partment of Social and National History, September 1, 1983, through August 
31, 1984. 

Walter Hill, Ph.D. candidate. University of Maryland. Life, labor, and race; 
Black Charleston, South Carolina, 1880-1915, with Dr. Spencer Crew, Archives 
Center, and Dr. James Horton, Afro-American Communities Project, from 
September 1, 1983, through August 31, 1984. 

Donald R. Hoke, Ph.D. candidate. University of Wisconsin. The American sys- 
tem of manufactures; watches, typewriters, and technological convergence, 
with Dr. Otto Mayr, Department of the History of Science and Technology, 
from January 1 through July 31, 1983. 

Emory Kemp, Smithsonian Institution Regents Fellow. Professor of the history 
of science and technology. West Virginia University. A history of suspension 
bridges, with the director and staff, including Robert Vogel, Department of 
the History of Science and Technology, from September 1, 1983, through May 
31, 1984. 

Lucy Long,* M.A. candidate. University of Maryland, Baltimore. The Scott 
Odell Fieldwork Collection folk music and musical instruments from south- 
west Virginia, with Scott Odell, Division of Conservation, and Cynthia Hoo- 
ver, Department of Social and National History, from June 6 through August 
12, 1983. 

Miriam Milgram,* M.A. candidate. University of Washington. Survey and 
research of the Slavic textile collection in the Division of Community Life, 
with Richard Ahlborn, Department of Social and National History, from June 
13 through August 19, 1983. 

Mary Neth, Ph.D. candidate. University of Wisconsin. Rural domestic life and 
the creation of national culture, 1890-1940, with Dr. Terry Sharrer, Depart- 
ment of the History of Science and Technology, and Anne Golovin, Depart- 
ment of Social and National History, from September 1, 1983, through May 
31, 1984. 

Paula Petrik, Ph.D., Montana State University. Playthings for the Republic's 
children; gender socialization and the toy industry in America, 1840-1980, 
with Rodris Roth, Department of Social and National History, from Septem- 
ber 15, 1983, through September 14, 1984. 

Jonathan Prude, First Ladies Fellow. Department of History, Emory Univer- 
sity. The meaning of American occupational costume, 1775-1914, with Claudia 
Kidwell, Department of Social and National History, from January 1 through 
June 30, 1983. 

Priscilla Roberts, Ph.D., Kings College, Cambridge. The "internationalist" for- 
eign policy tradition of U.S. military, 1900-1950, with Dr. Forrest Pogue, 
Eisenhower Institute for Historical Studies, from September 1, 1983, through 
August 31, 1984. 

Joni K. Seager, Ph.D., Clark University. The domestic landscape of the Pro- 
gressive Era; design of domestic space as cultural history, with Rodris Roth, 
Department of Social and National History, and Deborah Warner, Department 
of the History of Science and Technology, from January 1 through June 30, 
1983. 

Jan Sloan,* Ph.D. candidate. University of Kansas. American scientists at the 
Naples Zoological Station; the Smithsonian Table and the American Women's 
Table, with Deborah Warner, Department of the History of Science and Tech- 
nology, and William Deiss, Smithsonian Institution Archives, from June 6 
through August 12, 1983. 

George Sweeting, Ph.D. candidate, Columbia University. Expansion of indus- 
trial capacity during World War II; government policy and structural eco- 
nomic change, with Edward Ezell, Department of the History of Science and 
Technology, from June 1, 1983, through May 31, 1984. 



Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments I 423 



Mark Tucker, Ph.D. candidate. University of Michigan. Black bands in New 
York, 1927-1935, with Martin WilHams, Smithsonian Institution Press, and 
Cynthia Hoover, Department of Social and National History, from June 1, 
1983, through May 31, 1984. 

Deborah Warner, James E. Webb Fellow. Curator in the Department of the 
History of Science and Technology; Executive Program in Business Adminis- 
tration, Columbia University, from June through August 1983. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 

Catherine Agegian,* Ph.D. candidate. University of Hawaii. The growth and 
mineralogy of coralline red algae in past and present seas, with Dr. Walter 
Adey, Department of Paleobiology, from October 4, through December 11, 
1982. 

Joseph Arminio,* Ph.D. candidate, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
Imperial strategies to defuse nomadic pressures, with Dr. Gus Van Beek, De- 
partment of Anthropology, from June 6 through August 12, 1983. 
Stanley Blum, Ph.D. candidate. University of Hawaii. The phylogeny of the 
genus "Chaetodon" (Pisces, Perciformes, Chaetodontidae), with Dr. Victor 
Springer, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, August 15, 1983, through August 
14, 1984. 

Michael Brown, Ph.D., University of Michigan. New perspectives on magic 
and medicine; an Amazonian case, with Dr. William Crocker, Department of 
Anthropology, from September 1, 1983, through August 31, 1984. 
John B. Burch, Smithsonian Institution Regents Fellow. Professor of biological 
sciences. University of Michigan. A monograph on the freshwater snails of 
North America, with the director and staff, from June 1, 1983, through May 
31, 1984. 

James Carpenter, Ph.D., Cornell University. A phylogenetic analysis of the 
genera of the Polistinae (Hymenoptera: Vespidae), with Dr. Karl Krombein, 
Department of Entomology, from September 1, 1983, through August 31, 1984. 
James Decker,* M.S. candidate, George Washington University. Statistical 
analysis of suspended sediments, samples taken from the Rhode River estuary 
in Maryland, with Dr. Jack Pierce, Department of Paleobiology, from May 30 
through August 5, 1983. 

Masahiro Dojiri, Ph.D., Boston University. Revision of the genera of the 
Taeniacanthidae, copepods predominantly parasitic on marine fishes, with Dr. 
Roger F. Cressey, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from February 1, 1983, 
through January 31, 1984. 

Suzanne Fredericq,* M.S. candidate, George Mason University. Taxonomic 
concepts of Cracilaria morphology based on post-fertilization events, with Dr. 
James Norris, Department of Botany, from June 6 through August 12, 1983. 
Terrence Goslinger, Ph.D., University of New Hampshire. Systematics and 
biogeography of opisthobranch mollusks of the western Indian Ocean, with 
Dr. Joseph Rosewater, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from January 1 
through December 31, 1983. 

Robert Hard,* Ph.D. candidate. University of New Mexico. Tarahumara ethno- 
archaeological research, with Dr. William Merrill, Department of Anthropol- 
ogy, from February 28 through May 6, 1983. 

Kenneth Hopkins,* Ph.D. candidate, Oklahoma State University. A tribal his- 
tory of the Oteo-Missourias, with Dr. Herman Viola, Department of Anthro- 
pology, from May 30 through August 5, 1983. 

Stephen McNutt,* Ph.D. candidate, Columbia University. A study of earth- 
quake swarms preceding and accompanying explosive volcanic eruptions, with 
Dr. Thomas Simkin, Department of Mineral Sciences, from September 5 
through November 11, 1983. 



424 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Peter Michael, Ph.D., Columbia University. Chemical differentiation of Sierran 
plutons through crystal-liquid separation, with Dr. William Melson, Depart- 
ment of Mineral Sciences, from July 1, 1983, through June 30, 1984. 
George Milner, Ph.D., Northwestern University. Synchronic and diachronic 
variations in the health of Mississippian populations from the American Bot- 
tom, Illinois, with Dr. Douglas Ubelaker, Department of Anthropology, from 
September 1, 1983, through May 31, 1984. 

Timothy Rowe, Ph.D. candidate. University of California. Biomechanics and 
evolution of adaptations for cranial collisions in living and fossil amniotes, 
with Dr. Nicholas Hotton, Department of Paleobiology, from September 1, 
1983, through August 31, 1984. 

Silvia Santiago,'^ M.S. candidate, Universidad National Autonoma de Mexico. 
Revision of the riffle beetles (Coleptera: Elmidae) of Mexico, Central America 
and the West Indies, with Dr. Paul Spangler, Department of Entomology, 
from June 27 through September 2, 1983. 

Thomas Sebeok, Smithsonian Institution Regents Fellow. Chairman, Research 
Center for Language and Semiotic Studies, Indiana University. The biological 
roots of art and an introduction to semiotics, with the director and staff, from 
September 1, 1983, through June 30, 1984. 

Jonathan Shaw, Ph.D., University of Michigan. A generic revision of the 
Bryaceae, subfamily, Mielichhoferioideae (Musci.), with Dr. Harold Robinson, 
Department of Botany, from September 1, 1983, through August 31, 1984. 
Robert Starcher,* Ph.D. candidate, Rutgers University. Functional, construc- 
tional and phylogenetic analysis of patterns of colony development in fan-like 
and vine-like bryozoans, with Dr. Richard Boardman, Department of Paleo- 
biology, from June 6 through August 12, 1983. 

Wayne Starnes, Ph.D., University of Tennessee. Phylogeny, relationships and 
biogeography of the South American characiform fish family Parodontidae, 
with Dr. Stanley Weitzman, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from Septem- 
ber 1, 1983, through August 31, 1984. 

William Stein, Ph.D., University of Michigan. Reinvestigation of Asteropteris 
noveboracensis and possibly related members of the Cladoxylopsida from 
North American Devonian, with Dr. Francis Hueber, Department of Paleo- 
biology, from September 1, 1983, through August 31, 1984. 
Richard Stromberg, Ph.D. candidate. University of Toronto. Sealing and so- 
ciety; a study in Western Thule cultural ecology, with Dr. William Fitzhugh, 
Department of Anthropology, from October 1, 1982, through September 30, 
1983. 

James L. Zarucchi, Ph.D., Harvard University. Biology of New World Plu- 
meriodeae, with Dr. John Wurdack, Department of Botany, from January 1 
through December 31, 1983. 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

John Gittleman,* Ph.D. candidate. University of Sussex. The effects of folivory 
on ontogeny and maternal care in the red panda, with Dr. Devra Kleiman, 
Department of Zoological Research, from May 30 through September 16, 1983. 
Reena Mathur, Visiting Scientist. Ph.D., University of Rajasthan. Non-human 
primate eco-behavioral studies; their conservation and management, with Dr. 
Rasanayagam Rudran, Department of Zoological Research, from July 4 
through September 9, 1983. 

David Scott,* M.S. candidate. University of Virginia. Species diversity and 
habitat complexity; a study of the herpetofauna at the NZP's Conservation 
and Research Center, with Dr. Dale Marcellini, Department of Herpetology, 
from June 11, 1983, through May 10, 1984. 
Willie Collins,* Ph.D. candidate. University of California at Los Angeles. 



Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments I 425 



OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS 

Identification of icons and musical instruments and musicians in African- 
American culture, with Dr. Kazadi wa Mukuna, from June 6 through August 
12, 1983. 

Nicolas Schidlovsky, Ph.D., Princeton University. Music of the Old Believers; 
oral traditions of ancient Russia in the U.S. today, with Dr. Thomas Vennum, 
from March 1, 1983, through February 28, 1984. 



OFFICE OF PROGRAMMING AND BUDGET 

Jon E. Yellin, James E. Webb Fellow. Director, Smithsonian Institution Office 
of Programming and Budget; Lucius E. Littauer Master of Public Administra- 
tion Program, Harvard University, from August 1983 through May 1984. 



OFFICE OF THE TREASURER 

Brooks Parsons, James E. Webb Fellow. Master in Business Administration 
candidate. University of North Carolina, from May through August 1983. 



SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

Kenneth Gibbs, Ph.D. candidate. University of Arizona. Study of high-energy 
gamma-ray astronomy using the 10m optical reflector at Mt. Hopkins, with 
Dr. Trevor Weekes, from May 16 through August 26, 1983. 

Margaret Graff, Ph.D., University of Oregon. Photodissociation of CH and 
OH application to molecular formation and destruction in the interstellar 
medium, with Dr. Irwin Shapiro and staff, from September 1, 1983, through 
August 31, 1984. 

Steven Kahn, Visiting Scientist. Ph.D., University of California. Study of Ein- 
stein data projects, with Dr. Harvey Tananbaum, Dr. Frederick Seward and 
D. P. Gorenstein, from July 1 through August 6, 1983. 

Scott Kenyon, Ph.D., University of Illinois. Study of symbolics and single M 
stars in the IR and optical, with Dr. Irwin Shapiro and staff, from September 
1, 1983, through August 31, 1984. 



SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER 

Barbara Chereskin, Ph.D., University of California, Davis. Use of the cleavable 
cross-linking reagent, 2-iminothiolane, to determine phycohilisome structure, 
with Dr. Elisabeth Gantt, October 15, 1982, through October 14, 1983. 
Elizabeth Moore, Visiting Scientist. Life Sciences Department, Glassboro State 
College. The responses of the aclerotia, apothecia, and mycelium of Pyronema 
domesticum to light of different spectral qualities, with Dr. Walter Shrop- 
shire, Jr., from January 15 through June 30, 1983. 

Paul Spitzer, Visiting Scientist. Ph.D., Cornell University. Population param- 
eters of ospreys breeding in the Chesapeake Bay region, with Dr. James 
Lynch, from April 15 through August 31, 1983. 

Kiyotoshi Takeno-Wada, Ph.D., University of Tokyo. Analysis of endogenous 
hormones in Pharbitis nil in relation to flowering, with Dr. Charles Cleland, 
from December 1, 1982, through November 30, 1983. 

Laura Thompson, Ph.D., Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. 
Photocontrol of peanut (Arachis sp. L) embryo and ovule development in vitro, 
with Dr. Gerald Deitzer, from September 6, 1983 through August 31, 1984. 



426 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



I 



SMITHSONIAN MARINE STATION AT LINK PORT 

Maria Byrne, Ph.D., University of Victoria. Reproduction of Ophiolepus pau- 
cispina and Amphiura stimpsoni, with Dr. Mary Rice, from September 1, 1983, 
through August 31, 1984. 

Jon L. Norenburg, Ph.D., Northeastern University. Developmental biology of 
Nemertina from Florida, with Dr. Mary Rice, from October 1, 1982, through 
September 30, 1983. 



SMITHSONIAN MUSEUM SHOPS 

Rebecca Keith Webb, James E. Webb Fellow. Data control manager and assis- 
tant controller, Smithsonian Institution Museum Shops; Master of Business 
Administration Program, George Washington University, from January 
through December 1983. 



SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 

Jacqueline Belwood, Ph.D. candidate. University of Florida. The effects of 
predation on the evolution of calling behavior in neotropical katydids, with 
Dr. Michael Robinson, from November 1, 1982, through October 31, 1983. 
Gloria Sullivan Caldwell, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Experi- 
mental analysis of Ardeid color dimorphism, with Dr. Martin Moynihan, from 
November 1, 1982, through October 31, 1983. 

Kenneth Clifton, Ph.D. candidate. University of California, Santa Barbara. 
Territorial groups of the striped parrotfish, Scarus iserti, with Dr. Ross Robert- 
son, from June 15, 1983, through June 14, 1984. 

Richard Emlet,* Ph.D. candidate. University of Washington. Development, 
settlement, and metamorphosis of Clypeaster rosaceus, with Dr. Harilaos Les- 
sios, from September 5 through November 11, 1983. 

Leo Fleishman, Ph.D. candidate, Cornell University. Communication in Anolis 
lizards, with Dr. A. Stanley Rand, from October through December 31, 1982, 
and April 1 through December 31, 1983. 

Dolores Piperno, Ph.D., Temple University. The application of phytolith anal- 
ysis to tropical paleoecology, with Dr. Olga Linares, from July 1, 1983, through 
June 30, 1984. 

Myra Shulman, Ph.D., University of Washington. Functions of juvenile/ adult 
color dimorphism in coral reef fishes, with Dr. Ross Robertson, from Novem- 
ber 1, 1982, through October 31, 1983. 

Daniel Suman, Ph.D., University of California, San Diego. The morphologies 
of plant charcoal particles, their analysis in sediment cores from Parita Bay, 
Panama, with Dr. Olga Linares, from September 1, 1983, through August 31, 
1984. 

Pepper Trail, Ph.D., Cornell University. Behavioral and genetic differentiation 
among allopatric populations of a neotropical bird, the thrushlike manakin, 
with Dr. Neal Smith, from October 15, 1983, through May 14, 1984. 
Lani West, Ph.D. candidate, Oregon State University. Prey selection by indi- 
vidual carnivorous snails in a Pacific rocky intertidal habitat of Panama, with 
Dr. Haris Lessios, from December 15, 1982, through December 14, 1983. 
Diana Wheeler, Ph.D., Duke University. Physiological control of worker poly- 
morphism in turtle ants and its evolutionary implications, with Dr. David 
Roubik, from October 1, 1982, through September 30, 1983. 

Ernest Williams, Smithsonian Institution Regents Fellow. Alexander Agassiz 
Professor of Geology, Harvard University. Research on the evolution of 
Anolis, with the director and staff, from February 1 through August 31, 1983. 



Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments I 427 



INTERNSHIP AND OTHER STUDENT APPOINTMENTS 

The Smithsonian offers internship appointments to visiting graduate and 
undergraduate students. The persons — listed by bureau, office, or division — 
in this Appendix began their internships between October 1, 1982, and Sep- 
tember 30, 1983. Holders of special awards and participants in special pro- 
grams are so listed. The institution attended, the title or a brief description 
of the project to be undertaken, where appropriate, and the name of the 
Smithsonian supervisor are given for each intern. A list of student partici- 
pants in the cooperative education program, along with their placements 
within the institution, also is included. 

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM 

Kimberly Kelly, Ford Foundation Scholarship, Cooper-Hewitt Museum/Par- 
sons School of Design M.A. Program in the History of the Decorative Arts, 
with David McFadden, Department of Decorative Arts, from September 1, 
1983, through May 31, 1985. 

Christopher Reed, Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellowship Student. B.A. candidate, 
Amherst College, with Elaine Evans Dee, Department of Drawings and Prints, 
from June 13 through August 19, 1983. 

Kimberly Dawn Van Dyke, Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellowship Student. B.F.A., 
Ohio University, with Ann Doftsman, Department of Wallpaper, from June 28 
through August 26, 1983. 

Leslie Whitfield, B.A. candidate. University of Maryland, with Andrew Sved- 
low. Education Services, from July 11 through August 26, 1983. 

Other Interns 

Dara Caponigro, B.A. candidate, Barnard College, with Lisa Taylor, director, 
from June 13 through August 26, 1983. 

Alison Clark, B.A. candidate, Cornell University, with Andrew Svedlow, Edu- 
cational Services Office, from June 13 through August 19, 1983. 
Kirsten dePagter, B.A. candidate. Brown University, with staff of the Exhibi- 
tions Office, from June 13 through August 19, 1983. 

Wendy Frieze, B.F.A. candidate. Parsons School of Design, with Gillian Moss, 
Textiles Department, from June 13 through August 19, 1983. 
Anne Fuhrman, B.A. candidate. Drew University, with Andrew Svedlow, Edu- 
cational Services Office, from June 13 through August 19, 1983. 
Vance Koehler, M.A. candidate, Cooper-Hewitt/Parsons Program in Decora- 
tive Arts, with David McFadden, Decorative Arts Department, June 13 through 
August 19, 1983. 

Simah Kraus, M.A. candidate. City University of New York, with Peter 
Scherer, Director's Office, from June 13 through August 19, 1983. 
Karen Kratina, B.A. Kean College of Art, with Milton Sonday, Textiles De- 
partment, from June 28 through August 19, 1983. 

June Ross, B.A., Utah State University, with Isabelle Silverman, Public Infor- 
mation Office, from June 13 through August 19, 1983. 

Charlotte Sonnenblick, B.A. candidate, Wesleyan University, with Cordelia 
Rose, Registrar's Office, from June 13 through August 19, 1983. 

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 

Lori Alexander, B.A., Wellesley College, with Abram Lerner, director, from 

June 6 through August 12, 1983. 

Michelle Kropf, B.A. candidate. University of Cincinnati, with Teresia Bush, 



428 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Outreach Program, Department of Education, from June 6 through August 12, 
1983. 

Sarah Meyer, B.A., Brown University, with Dr. Judith Zilczer, historian. De- 
partment of Painting and Sculpture, from June 6 through August 12, 1983. 
Matthew Postal, B.A., Vassar College, with Joseph Shannon, chief. Department 
of Exhibits and Design, from June 6 through August 12, 1983. 

Other Interns 

Janet Farber, M.A. candidate. Case Western Reserve University. Worked with 
Valerie Fletcher, Department of Painting and Sculpture, on a catalogue of the 
French sculpture in the museum's collection, from June 6 through August 21, 
1983. 

Eve Maclntyre, B.A. candidate. University of Richmond. Worked with Miran- 
da McClintic, Howard Fox, and Phyllis Rosenzweig, Department of Painting 
and Sculpture, researching the HMSG's Tenth Anniversary Painting and 
Sculpture Exhibition, from June 6 through August 12, 1983. 
Carorle Zawatsky, George Washington University, MAT Program. Research 
and study in the Education Department with Edward Lawson, from January 3 
to May 21, 1983. 

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS 

Margaret Hanna, Smith College/Smithsonian American Studies Program Stu- 
dent. B.A. candidate. Smith College. Popular science in early 19th-century 
America (1820-1860), with Dr. Paul Theerman, from September 6 through 
December 16, 1983. 



NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM 

Donald Deland, B.A., Oberlin College, with Dr. Allan Needell, Department of 
Space Science and Exploration, June 6 through April 12, 1983. 
Deborah Douglas, B.A. candidate, Wellesley College, with Kathleen Brooks- 
Pazmany, Department of Aeronautics, from June 6 through August 12, 1983. 
Peter Jakab, Ph.D. candidate, Rutgers University, with Dr. Thomas Crouch, 
Department of Aeronautics, from June 6 through August 12, 1983. 
Katherine Kirkpatrick, B.A. candidate, Smith College, with Von Del Chamber- 
Iain, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from June 6 through 
August 12, 1983. 

Susan Lawson, B.F.A., Maryland Institute, College of Art, with Mary Valdivia, 
Department of Art, from June 6 through August 12, 1983. 

George Rees, A.A.S., Purdue University, with Walter Roderick, Restoration 
and Storage Division, Garber Facility, from June 6 through August 12, 1983. 

Other Intern 

John Tirpak, Rutgers University. Research for book on history of aviation, 
with Dr. Thomas Crouch, Department of Aeronautics, from January 3 through 
March 11, 1983. 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART 

Adama Conteh, M.A. candidate, Howard University, with Gretchen Jennings, 
from June 6 through August 5, 1983. 

Marilyn Stevenson-Bryant, M.F.A. candidate. University of North Carolina at 
Greensboro, with Rosalyn Walker, from June 6 through August 5, 1983. 



Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments I 429 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART 

Marianne Beagan, B.A. candidate. Brown University, with Barbara Shissler 
Nosanow, Department of Education, from June 6 through August 5, 1983. 
Margaret Gilges, B.A., Dartmouth College, with Robin Bolton-Smith and 
Margery Sharpe, Department of 18th and 19th Century Painting and Sculp- 
ture, from June 20 through August 19, 1983. 

Andrew Conners, B.A. candidate, Yale College, with Georgine Reed, Office of 
Exhibition and Design, from June 6 through August 5, 1983. 
Linda Johnson, B.A. candidate, Wesleyan University, with Dr. Harry Rand, 
Department of 20th Century Painting and Sculpture, from June 6 through 
August 5, 1983. 

JoAnne Triplett, M.A. candidate. University of Louisville, with Robert Johns- 
ton, Registrar, from June 6 through August 5, 1983. 

Other Interns 

Virginia Delfico, George Washington University, January 21 through April 22, 

1983. 

Cynthia Harris, George Washington University, September 13, 1982, through 

April 22, 1983. 

Anna Noll, George Washington University, September 13, 1982, through April 

22, 1983. 

Karen Phillips, American University, September 13, 1982, through April 22, 

1983. 

Marcellus Pope, George Washington University, September 13, 1982, through 

April 22, 1983. 

Additional Summer Intern 
Jan Lemons, B.A. candidate, Salem College, Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 
Evaluation and research of collection of 19th-century volumes for future exhi- 
bition of book illustrations, with Cecilia Chin, National Museum of American 
Art/National Portrait Gallery Library, from June 6 through July 29, 1983. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY 

Grace Brill, B.S., University of New Mexico, with Deborah Warner, Depart- 
ment of the History of Science and Technology, from July 11 through August 
19, 1983. 

Vanessa Broussard, M.A. candidate, George Washington University, with Dr. 
James Horton, Afro-American Communities Project, from May 30 through 
September 2, 1983. 

Reginald Butler, Ph.D. candidate, Johns Hopkins University, with Dr. James 
Horton, Afro-American Communities Project, from July 11 through August 
19, 1983. 

Kathleen Campisano, M.A. candidate. University of South Carolina, with Dr. 
Douglas Evelyn, Deputy Director, from May 16 through August 12, 1983. 
Donatella Degiampietro, Diploma Superiore, University of Florence, Italy, 
with Scott Odell, Division of Conservation, from May 16 through August 31, 
1983. 

Lynda Edwards, B.A., Smith College, with Dr. Arthur Molella, Department of 
the History of Science and Technology, from July 4 through September 23, 
1983. 

Reba Fishman, M.A., Columbia University. Candidate for Certificate of Con- 
servation, New York University, with Dianne van der Reyden, Division of 
Conservation, from June 27 through August 26, 1983. 

Fuabeh Fonge, Ph.D. candidate, Howard University, with John Fleckner, Ar- 
chives, from June 13 through August 26, 1983. 



430 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Vincent Fort, Ph.D. candidate, Emory University, with Dr. Bemice Reagon, 
Office of Public and Academic Programs, from September 6 through Novem- 
ber 11, 1983. 

Nancy Gardner, Smith College/Smithsonian American Studies Program Stu- 
dent. B.A. candidate. Smith College. Past Visions of American Futures project, 
with Brian Horrigan and Dr. Joseph Corn, Department of the History of Sci- 
ence and Technology, from September 6 through December 16, 1983. 
Joanne Harris, B.S. candidate. Smith College, with Path Davis Ruffins, Depart- 
ment of Social and National History, from June 6 through August 26, 1983. 
Ibrahim Kargbo, Ph.D. candidate, Howard University, with Dr. James Horton, 
Afro-American Communities Project, from June 6 through August 26, 1983. 
Kathleen Kelly, Smith College/Smithsonian American Studies Program Stu- 
dent. B.A. candidate. Smith College. Eighteenth-century "Life in America" 
project, with Path Davis Ruffins, Department of Social and National History, 
from September 6 through December 16, 1983. 

Marianna Knight, Smith College/Smithsonian American Studies Student. B.A. 
candidate. Smith College. Work on the M*A*S*H project, with Dr. Edward 
Ezell, Department of the History of Science and Technology, from September 
6 through December 16, 1983. 

Marian Moore, Ph.D. candidate. Bowling Green State University, with Dr. 
Spencer Crew, Archives Center, from May 5 through August 19, 1983. 
Joan Orr, Smith College/Smithsonian American Studies Program Student. B.A. 
candidate. Smith College. Work on the "Field to Factory" project, with Dr. 
Spencer Crew, Archives Center, from September 6 through December 16, 1983. 
Jeanne Schwenk, Smith College/Smithsonian American Studies Program Stu- 
dent. B.A. candidate. Smith College. Work on Collection of Business Ameri- 
cana promotional campaigns, with Dr. Spencer Crew and John Fleckner, Ar- 
chives Center, from September 6 through December 16, 1983. 
Susan Wallace, Smith College/Smithsonian American Studies Program Stu- 
dent. B.A. candidate. Smith College. A study in mass communications in the 
20th-century using high circulation magazines, with Claudia Kidwell, Depart- 
ment of Social and National History, from September 6 through December 16, 
1983. 

Eloise Woods, B.A. candidate. Brown University, with Dr. Spencer Crew, Ar- 
chives Center, from June 13 through August 19, 1983. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 

Mary Evalina Alexander, Ph.D. candidate. University of Puerto Rico, with Dr. 
Mark Littler, Department of Botany, from May 30 through August 5, 1983. 
Raymond Carthy, M.S. candidate. Slippery Rock State College, with Dr. Ron- 
ald Heyer, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from June 6 through August 
16, 1983. 

Brian Farrell, Ph.D. candidate. University of Maryland, with Dr. Terry Erwin, 
Department of Entomology, from June 6, 1983, through February 28, 1984. 
Jessamine Hemandez-Muniz, M.S. candidate. University of Puerto Rico, with 
Dr. Tom Soderstrom, Department of Botany, from May 30 through August 5, 
1983. 

James Long, B.S. candidate, Howard University, with Fred Collier, Department 
of Paleobiology, from June 13 through September 2, 1983. 

Vivian Negron-Ortiz, M.S. candidate. University of Puerto Rico, with Dr. Rob- 
ert Read, Department of Botany, from May 30 through August 5, 1983. 
Carmen Parrott, B.S. candidate, Vassar College, with Dr. Robert Higgins and 
Dr. Charles Hart, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from May 30 through 
August 19, 1983. 



Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments I 431 



Mary Sangrey, B.S. candidate. University of Wisconsin, with Dr. Tom Soder- 
strom. Department of Botany, from May 31 through August 5, 1983. 
Beverly Spriggs, B.S. candidate. University of the District of Columbia, with 
Dr. Donald Ortner, Department of Anthropology, from June 6 through Sep- 
tember 16, 1983. 

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 

Suzanne Masri, Smith College/Smithsonian American Studies Program Stu- 
dent. B.A. candidate. Smith College. Research and editing of Peale Papers, 
with Dr. Lillian Miller, Charles Willson Peale Papers, from September 6 
through December 16, 1983. 

Other Interns 

Adele P. Bradlee, graduate student, George Mason University. Internship at 
Peale Family Papers project, from August 30 through December 11, 1982. 
Carolyn Cleaver, B.A. candidate. Smith College. Preparation of Permanent 
Collection Checklist, with Frances Wein, Editor's Office, from June 6 through 
September 1, 1983. 

James D. Dziedzio, B.A. candidate, Maryland Institute College of Art. Research 
of Mallett Papers, with Cecilia H. Chin, Library, from June 14 through August 
18, 1983. 

Alexandra Espy, B.A. 1982, George Washington University. Resleeving Me- 
serve negatives, with William F. Stapp, Curatorial Department, from May 3 
through August 12, 1983. 

Moira Gault, B.A. candidate, Georgetown University. Preparation of the 
"Museum Education" chapter in Museums: A Reference Guide, with Ken 
Yellis, Education Department, from May 23 through August 31, 1983. 
Rosanna Go, B.A. candidate, Bryn Mawr College. Preparation of Saint Memin 
catalog and other curatorial research, with Dr. Ellen Miles, Curatorial Depart- 
ment, from March 14 through March 18, 1983. 

Ann Kjellberg, B.A. candidate, Yale University. Preparation of NPG Perma- 
nent Collection Checklist, with Frances Wein, Editor's Office, from June 7 
through August 31, 1983. 

Gina A. Marinilli, undergraduate student, Bryn Mawr College. Externship at 
Peale Family Papers project, from March 14 through March 18, 1983. 
Lisa Sommers, M.A.T. candidate. Museum Education Program, George Wash- 
ington University. Secondary and Senior Citizen Programs, with Harry Jack- 
son, Education Department, from February 15 through May 30, 1983. 
Caroline H. Sullivan, B.A. candidate, Hollins College. Assisted with prepara- 
tion of Hollywood Portrait exhibition, with Kristi Mathias, Department of 
Exhibits Design and Production, from January 5 through February 2, 1983. 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

Benedict Hren, B.A., Hiram College, Ohio, with Guy Greenwell, Conservation 
and Research Center, from June 1 through September 30, 1983. 
Carlos Saavedra, Conservation Training Program student. M.S. candidate. Uni- 
versity of Florida, with Dr. John Robinson, Primate Program, from May 1 
through July 31, 1983. 

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS 

Sheila Jackson, B.S. candidate. University of Virginia, with Dr. Peter Seitel, 
from June 23 through June 27, 1983; June 30 through July 4, 1983; and July 
18 through September 2, 1983. 



432 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Other Interns 

Samantha Hawkins, Georgetown University. 
Francesca McLean, University of California, Berkeley. 
Daniel Metzel, Davidson College, North Carolina. 
Loretta Van Winkle, Western Kentucky University. 

Visiting Scholars 

Michald Licht, Ph.D. candidate. University of Texas, Austin. 
Robert McCarl, Ph.D., Memorial University of Newfoundland. 

SMITHSONIAN ARCHIVES 

Susan Bevelhimer, M.A. candidate, Portland State University, with William 
Deiss, from September 19 through November 25, 1983. 

Joan Brownell, M.A., Montana State University, with William Deiss, from 
April 4 through June 10, 1983. 

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER 

Janet Bardwell, Work/Learn Student. B.S. candidate. Brown University, with 
Dr. James Lynch, from August 22 through December 23, 1983. 
Emily Field, Work/ Learn Student. B.S. candidate, Colorado State University, 
with Dr. John Falk, from May 23 through July 15, 1983. 

Christine Gordon, Work/Learn Student. B.S. candidate, Colorado State Uni- 
versity, with Dr. James Lynch, from May 23 through August 19, 1983. 
Linda Jones, B.S. candidate, Randolph-Macon Woman's College, with Dr. Mau- 
rice Margulies, from June 30 through August 19, 1983. 

Sarah Juram, Work/Learn Student. B.S. candidate, Swarthmore College, with 
Dr. John Balling, from May 23 through August 19, 1983. 

Craig Kelly, Work/Learn Student. B.A., Whitman College, with Dr. Anson 
Hines, from June 6 through October 28, 1983. 

Mark Kim-Leong Khoo, Work/Learn Student. B.S. candidate, McGill Univer- 
sity, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from June 6 through August 5, 1983. 
Jennifer Lawson, Work/Learn Student. B.S., Tufts University, with Dr. Dennis 
Whigham, from June 6 through August 26, 1983. 

Patricia McGee, Work/Learn Student. B.S., Lehigh University, with Dr. 
Thomas Jordan, from May 23 through September 2, 1983. 

Sahle Melles, M.S. candidate, Howard University, with Dr. Roy Harding, from 
May 16 through August 5, 1983. 

Ellen Michaels, Work/Learn Student. B.S., University of Minnesota, with Dr. 
James Lynch, from May 16 through August 5, 1983. 

Mark Tedesco, Work/Learn Student. B.S., State University of New York, 
Stony Brook, with Dr. Anson Hines, from May 23 through October 28, 1983. 
Alison Unger, Work/Learn Student. B.S. candidate, Carleton College, with 
Dr. John Falk, from June 13 through August 26, 1983. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING 
EXHIBITION SERVICE 

Cherie Faini, Pennsylvania State University. Development of exhibition and 
education programs, with Marjorie Share, from September 1983 through 
January 1984. 

Elizabeth Shapiro, University of Michigan. Development of interpretive exhi- 
bitions for Ban Chiang and Native Harvests, with Martha Cappelletti, from 
August 1983 through January 1984. 



Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments I 433 



Deborah Small, Carnegie-Mellon University. Exhibition, publicity, and regis- 
trarial assistance, with Marjorie Share, from January through May 1983. 
Elizabeth Eder, George Washington University. Research, writing, and design 
of educational programs, with Marjorie Share, from January through May 
1983. 

Tracy Soulges, George Washington University. Research and implementation 
of several SITES exhibitions, with Betty Teller, from June 1983 through 
January 1984. 

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 

Mary Alice Coffroth, Ph.D. candidate. University of Miami. A study of mucus 
production in reef corals, with Dr. Peter Glynn and Dr. Harilaos Lessios, from 
May through July 31, 1983. 

Denis M. Kearns, Ph.D. candidate, Humboldt State University. Seed dispersal 
strategies in tropical understory herbs, with Dr. Alan Smith, from September 
1 through November 30, 1983. 

David McLetchie, B.S. candidate, Howard University, with Dr. Alan Smith, 
from May 30 through August 5, 1983. 

Livingstone Marshall, B.S. candidate, Hampton Institute. Cooperative Educa- 
tion Intern, with Dr. Harilaos Lessios, from September 1 through December 
16, 1983. 

Stephen Mulkey, Ph.D. candidate. University of Pennsylvania. An experimen- 
tal study of the influence of treefall light gaps on the growth and reproduction 
of two herbaceous understory grasses, with Dr. Alan Smith, from June 1 
through August 30, 1983. 

Dianna Padilla, Ph.D. candidate. University of Alberta. The role of calcifica- 
tion as an herbivore defense mechanism, with Dr. John Cubit, from September 
15 through December 15, 1983. 

Jonathan Reed, Ph.D. candidate. University of Wisconsin. Spectral sensitivity 
studies on four species of seabirds in the Bay of Panama, with Dr. Gene Mont- 
gomery, from March 15 through May 15, 1983. 

Eugene W. Schupp, Ph.D. candidate. University of Iowa. The adaptive signifi- 
cance of masting in Faramea occidentalis, with Dr. Egbert Leigh, from May 15 
through August 31, 1983. 

Teresa Townshend, Ph.D. candidate. University College of Wales. Food avail- 
ability and reproduction in cichlid fishes, with Dr. Michael Robinson, from 
March 1 through April 30, 1983. 

SHORT-TERM FELLOWSHIPS! ASSIST ANT SHIPS 
IN TROPICAL BIOLOGY 

Educational Outreach Program 

Richard Emlet, University of Washington. 
Patricia Hansell, Temple University. 
Robert Schmalzel, University of Arizona. 
Douglas Yanega, Cornell University. 

EXXON Program 

Aurora Altamar, Universidad de Panama. 

Marta Arauz, Universidad de Panama. 

Remberto Daniel Bricefio, Universidad de Costa Rica. 

Aixa Cabrera, Universidad de Panama. 

Ricardo Caicedo, Universidad de Panama. 

Roberto Cambra, Universidad de Panama. 



434 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Fred Castillero, Universidad de Panama. 

Erick Castillo, Universidad de Panama. 

Hector Cedeno, Universidad de Panama. 

Sandra Charity, Universidad de Sao Paulo, Brazil. 

Eugenio Chen, Universidad Autonoma Guadalajara, Mexico. 

Luz Chen, University of Miami. 

Luis De La Rosa, Universidad de Panama. 

Israel De Leon, Universidad de Panama. 

Yolanda Betsabe Figueroa, Universidad de Panama. 

Felipe Gallardo, Universidad de Panama. 

Milton Garcia, Universidad de Panama. 

Vielka Garcia, Universidad de Panama. 

Nelida Gomez, Universidad de Panama. 

Patricia Gutierrez, Universidad Simon Bolivar, Caracas, Venezuela. 

Ileana Harper, Universidad de Panama. 

Stanley Heckadon, University of Essex. 

Dora Hernandez, Universidad de Panama. 

Moraima Hill, Universidad de Panama. 

Jose Him, Universidad de Panama. 

Fidel Jaramillo, Universidad de Panama. 

Cesar Jaramillo, Universidad de Panama. 

Gustavo Kattan, Universidad del Valle, Cali, Colombia. 

Jorge Laguna, Central College. 

Eulalia Lucia Maldonado, Universidad de Guayaquil, Ecuador. 

Claudette Mo, Universidad de Sao Paulo. 

Alvaro Morales, Universidad de Costa Rica. 

Rene Morris, State University of New York at Stony Brook. 

Carolina Murcia, Universidad del Valle, Cali, Colombia. 

Luis Paz, Universidad de "Babes Bolyai" Cluj-Napoca, Rumania. 

Miguel Perez, Universidad de Panama. 

Francisco Reyes, Universidad Veracruzana, Mexico. 

Elena Rodriguez Peiia, Universidad de Panama. 

Vania da Silva, Universidad de Sao Paulo. 

Maria Beatriz R. do Valle, Universidad de Sao Paulo. 

Wilson Valerio, Universidad de Costa Rica. 

Eduardo Velasco, Universidad del Valle, Cali, Colombia. 

Carlos Vergara, Universidad Nacional de Colombia. 

Cesar Vergara, Universidad de Panama. 

Luis A. Yallico, Universidad Central del Peru. 

SMITHSONIAN COOPERATIVE EDUCATION PROGRAM STUDENTS 

Melanie Blanding, B.S. candidate, Fisk University, with Robert Stewart, Na- 
tional Portrait Gallery, from June 6 through August 5, 1983. 
Theodore Cole, B.S. candidate. Northeastern University, with Michael Scofield, 
Office of Plant Services, from February 7 through April 1, 1983, and from 
June 27 through December 31, 1983. 

Wayne Gamble, A.A., University of the District of Columbia, with Shireen 
Dodson, Office of Accounting and Financial Services, from January 8 through 
July 8, 1983. 

Alton Garder, B.A. candidate, Howard University, with Dr. Edwin Gould, Na- 
tional Zoological Park, from June 6 through August 26, 1983. 
Anita Jones, M.A. candidate, George Washington University, with Josiah 
Hatch, Office of Public and Academic Programs, National Museum of Ameri- 
can History, from July 4 through August 31, 1983. 
Melanie Kreutzberger, B.S. candidate, Franklin and Marshall College, with Dr. 



Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments I 435 



Robert Fudali, Department of Mineral Sciences, National Museum of Natural 

History, from May 30 through August 19, 1983. 

Lisa McQuail, B.A. candidate, George Mason University, with Dr. Paul Taylor, 

Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, from 

January 24 through June 10, 1983. 

Chitua Okoh, Ph.D. candidate, Howard University, with Dr. Edwin Gould and 

Dr. Olav Oftedal, National Zoological Park, from June 6 through August 26, 

1983, and from October 17 through December 9, 1983. 

Byron Pickett, B.S. candidate. University of the District of Columbia, with Dr. 

Nathaniel Carleton, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from June 6 

through August 26, 1983. 



INTERNS PLACED BY OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM 

Suzanne Juge, University of the South. Study of oriental art as related to up- 
coming exhibit, with David McFadden, from June 13 through August 12, 1983. 
Margarethe Pedersen, University of Arhus, Denmark. Study and research in 
registraral practices, with Cordelia Rose, from August 15 through November 
15, 1983. 

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 

Gisela S. Cooke, American University. Curatorial studies in Division of Paint- 
ings and Sculpture, with Valerie Fletcher, from January 11 through April 11, 
1983. 

MUSEUM SHOPS 

Claudia Kolker. Study of administrative aspects of museum shop management, 
with Josephine Rowan, from June 14 through August 5, 1983. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART 

Shelby Baker, Pennsylvania State University. Research and development of 
public education program, with Judith Huston, from September 6 through 
December 20, 1983. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY 

Sally Epskamp, Northern Virginia Community College. Study of exhibition 
production techniques, including photo mounting, color mixing, and label 
preparation, with Bud Ray, from January 12 through April 16, 1983. 
Katherine Grier, University of Delaware. Curatorial research related to exhi- 
bition in Division of Domestic Life, with Rodris Roth, from June 13 through 
August 30, 1983. 

Beth Hager, University of Delaware. Curatorial research in the Division of 
Community Life, with Carl Scheele, from May 31 through August 5, 1983. 
Elizabeth Riser, Wellesley College. Curatorial research related to women's 
history, with Carl Scheele, from June 12 through August 12, 1983. 
Kelley Sue Mathers, Michigan State University. Study of research material 
related to the upcoming exhibit. Artificial Images, with Shelley Foote, from 
June 12 through September 14, 1983. 

Richard Ohlhausen, School of the Art Institute of Chicago. Research in exten- 
sion services and outreach programming as related to the elderly, with Eliza- 
beth Sharpe, from May 12 through July 9, 1983. 



436 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Kathryn Shenkle, Frostburg State College. Research in the Office of Public 
Affairs, with Mary Dyer, from May 10 through August 20, 1983. 
Ruth Tanham, Guilford College. Study of various tasks related to public pro- 
gramming, with Rebecca Curzon, from May 16 through August 19, 1983. 
Marian Thayer, Mary Washington College. Research of educational informa- 
tion for outreach programs, with Helen Snyder, from September 1 through 
November 15, 1983. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 

Rachel Carol Benton, Denison University. Research and study in the field of 

paleobiology, with Dr. Kenneth Towe, from September 6 through February 

20, 1984. 

Robin Greenberg, Stanford University. Study and research in anthropological 

archives, with Paula Fleming, from September 12 through December 20, 1982. 

Dlan Lawrence, Sweet Briar College. Study of anthropological exhibits, with 

Stephen Hunter, from January 3 through April 4, 1983. 

Truth Hawk Putz, University of Iowa. Exploration of freeze-dry techniques as 

related to natural history exhibits, with Carl Alexander, from January 2 

through June 2, 1983. 

Barbara Ritchie, Oxford University. Research related to Tongan history, with 

Adrienne Kaeppler, from July 12 through August 9, 1983. 

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 

Keith Doree, George Washington University. Cataloguing and research of 
magazines related to anticipated exhibit, with Suzanne Jenkins and Linda Best, 
from June 27 through July 29, 1983. 

Heidi Jean Smith, University of Texas. Preparation of books and catalogues 
received for central cataloguing, and research in more specialized areas of 
library science in a museum setting, with Cecilia H. Chin, from June 1 through 
September 2, 1983. 

Mary Rose Smyth, University of New York. Analysis of outreach programs as 
related to workshops, with Ann Bay, Office of Elementary and Secondary 
Education, from July 7 through September 12, 1983; also, internship related 
to techniques of registration, with Amy Henderson, National Portrait Gallery, 
from September 14 through November 12, 1983. 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

Somers Adkinson, George Washington University. Study of exhibits design 
and productions, with Virginia Mahoney, from March 14 through June 14, 
1983. 

Gloria Feeney, George Washington University. Study of labeling and silk- 
screening techniques as related to zoological exhibits, with Dr. Edwin Gould, 
from December 2 through May 16, 1983. 

OFFICE OF CURATOR OF THE CASTLE 

Edward McBee, Maryland Institute College of Art. Cataloguing photographs 
for new book to be published by curator James Goode, from May 31 through 
August 20, 1983. 

Melanie Richardson, University of Mississippi. Curatorial research related to 
publication for curator James Goode, from June 6 through August 26, 1983. 

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS CENTRAL 

Moira Fainberg, California State University. Study of exhibition design and 
production, with James Mahoney, from April 7 through June 5, 1983. 



Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments I \y7 



Bonnie Fontaine, George Washington University. In-depth analysis of silk- 
screening process as related to exhibit design and production, with James 
Mahoney, from September 6 through December 29, 1983. 

Kathleen Hadfield, University of California. In-depth study of graphics design 
and production, with James Mahoney, from March 18 through July 12, 1983. 
Neil Hutton, American University. Study and research related to exhibits de- 
sign and production, with James Mahoney, from December 20 through May 
30, 1983. 

Lauren Krouk, Corcoran School of Art. Study of exhibits in general and 
modelmaking, specifically, with Walter Sorrell, from January 4 through May 
6, 1983. 

Alice Miller, Hiram College (Ohio). Study of exhibits design and production, 
with James Mahoney, from February 13 through May 20, 1983. 
Maura O'Connor, Chatham College. Display preparation and artifact preserva- 
tion, with James Mahoney, from December 27 through January 28, 1983. 
Elizabeth Safran, University of Toronto. Exploration of silkscreen techniques 
as related to exhibits design, with James Mahoney, from July 5 through Sep- 
tember 16, 1983. 

Heather Stewart, Montgomery College. Research related to exhibits design and 
production, with James Mahoney, from May 25 through August 25, 1983. 

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS 

Daniel Metzel, Davidson College. Study related to preparation of annual folk- 
life festival, with Kazadi Wamukuna, from May 30 through August 26, 1983. 

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES 

Caroline Tremblay, Indiana University. Research related to special guide for 
international visitors, with Richard Conroy, from June 14 through August 15, 
1983. 

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

Adrienne Griffin, Howard University. Preparation of program for special inter- 
national project cosponsored by the United States Information Agency and 
the Smithsonian Institution, with Raymond Branham, from September 6 
through December 18, 1983. 

Bruce Jeddeloh, University of Oregon. Development of slide presentation de- 
scribing the Office of Museum Programs, with Rodger Wedgeworth, from 
September 6 through December 14, 1983. 

Elizabeth Older, Mount Holyoke College. Development of newsletter for the 
Office of Museum Programs, with Raymond Branham, from July 1 through 
September 1, 1983. 

Stephanie Ratcliffe, Appalachian State University. Coordination of itinerary 
for international delegates to Education in Museums Seminar held at the 
Smithsonian Institution, with Raymond Branham, from February 22 through 
August 26, 1983. 

Stephanie Torrence, University of California at Los Angeles. Preparation of 
materials and studies related to Native American Indian Conference, with 
Nancy Fuller, from April 4 through June 15, 1983. 

Sigurd Uttgaard, Carbondale High School. Preparation of mailing list for in- 
tern alumni, with Raymond Branham, from March 7 through March 11, 1983. 
Daniela Vaglienti, Hautes Etudes Commerciales, France. Special evaluation 
project for conference related to Native American Indian Program, with Nancy 
Fuller, from June 20, 1983. 



438 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Visiting Professionals 

Moses Abun, National Museum, Jos, Nigeria. 

Mohamad Akmal, National Museum of Science and Technology, University of 

Engineering and Technology, Pakistan. 
Farah Ahmed, Somalia National Museum, Magadishu, Somalia. 
Gabor Bandi, Savaria Museum, Hungary. 
Manfred Barthel, Natural History Museum of Humboldt University, Berlin, 

Germany. 
Ronald Black, Hocking Technical College, Nelsonville, Ohio. 
David Bradshaw, Newcastle Region Art Gallery, Newcastle, Australia. 
Juan Castro, Central Bank Museum, Ecuador. 
R. Chang, Division of Provincial Bureau of Housing and Urban Development, 

Taiwan. 
K. S. Chao, Chief of Division Five, Taiwan Province, Taiwan. 
Paul Chao, Embassy of the Republic of Free China and Taiwan, Taiwan. 
C. J. Chen, Tachi Province Senior High School, Taiwan. 
J. O. Y. Chen, Taichung Province Senior Industrial High School, Taiwan. 
T. C. Chen, Provincial Bureau of Housing and Urban Development, Taiwan. 
Wenhao Chou, National Museum of Natural Science, Taiwan. 
Y. C. Chu, Miaoli Province Senior Agricultural and Industrial High School, 

Taiwan. 
Mary Ellen Conway, Museum of Natural History, Providence, Rhode Island. 
Elizabeth Connell, Alberta Culture Historic Sites Service, Edmonton, Alberta, 

Canada. 
Len Davenport, Queens and Arts Council, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. 
Robert Dimit, Delaware Museum of Natural History, Delaware. 
Victor Ekwensi, National Museum, Kano, Nigeria. 
Michael Faber, Reinishces Freilichtmuseum, Germany. 
William Flanagan, New York. 

Thomas Fountain, Ramapo College Art Gallery, Mahwah, New Jersey. 
Hector Gamboa, National Museum, San Jose, Costa Rica. 
Sioux Garside, Newcastle Region Art Gallery, Newcastle, Australia. 
Atif Ghoneim, Manial Palace Museum, Egypt. 
Thelma Gunawardane, National Museum, Sri Lanka. 

Satyender Gupta, National Museum of Natural History, New Delhi, India. 
Hugh Hamilton, National Museum of Man, National Museums of Canada, 

Ottawa, Canada. 
Wolfgang Herbst, Museum of Germany History, Berlin, Germany. 
Auguste Hermanus, Chef de Cabinet to the Minister-President, Government 

of the French Community of Belgium, Belgium. 
Ferenc Horvath, Mora Ferenc Museum, Hungary. 
C. R. Hsu, Chiayi Province Senior Commercial High School, Taiwan. 
Ahmed Hussein, Somalia National Museum, Mogadishu, Somalia. 
Michael Hutley, Bermuda Aquarium, Natural History Museum and Zoo, 

Bermuda. 
Hans Jeppesen, Commercial and Maritime Museum, Kronburg Castle, Elsinore, 

Denmark. 
Kirsten Jeppesen, National Museum Board of Denmark, Elsinore, Denmark. 
Moria Johnson, National Art Gallery, Wellington, New Zealand. 
Li Jungie, Shanghi Museum, China. 
Chua Kee, National Museum, Singapore. 

Erzsebet Koczian-Szentpeteri, Transport Museum of Budapest, Hungary. 
Kothari, National Museum of Natural History, New Delhi, India. 
T. H. Liu, Department of Education, Taiwan Province, Taiwan. 
Mahalingam, National Museum of Natural History, New Delhi, India. 



Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments I 439 



James Luckey, Lahaina Restoration Foundation, Hawaii. 

Assad Mahmoud, Antiquities, Dier Ezzour Region, Syria. 

Sola Mahoney, First National Museum, The Gambia. 

Zhu Manling, Shanghi Museum, China. 

Sharif Muhtem, Antiquities, Marib Province, Yemen. 

David Muir, Institute of Jamaica, Jamaica. 

Josephine Mundy, Norwich Castle Museum, Norwich, England. 

Nagarajin, National Museum of Natural History, New Delhi, India. 

S, M. Nair, National Museum of Natural History, New Delhi, India. 

Mihaela Neagoe, Bucharest Village and Folk Art Museum, Romania. 

Debra Orgera, Career Development Office, Smith College, Northampton, 

Massachusetts. 
F. Y. Ou, Pintumg Province Senior Industrial High School, Taiwan. 
Rebecca Pipe, W. H. Over Museum, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, 

South Dakota. 
Hernan Rodriquez, National Historical Museum, Chile. 
Michel Rooryck, Centre for Agrarian Construction, Brussels, Belgium. 
Martin Sanderson, National Museums of Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe. 
Saraswat, National Museum of Natural History, New Delhi, India. 
11 Satiadinata, National Museum, Jakarta, Indonesia. 
Judith Schiff, Point Council of Australia, Melbourne, Australia. 
Graciela Schmilchuk, Museum of Modern Art, Mexico City, Mexico. 
All Shikan, Ministry of Information and Culture, Yemen. 
Ross Sharpe, Leicestershire Museums, Leicester, England. 
David Silber, Museum of the Diaspora, Tel Aviv, Israel. 
Fawzi Sweha, Egypt. 

Sergei Troubetzkoy, Richmond on the James Foundation, Richmond, Virginia. 
Louise Upston, National Art Gallery, Wellington, New Zealand. 
K. Usha, National Museum of Natural History, New Delhi, India. 
Terry Whittington, Bluefield Fine Arts Commission, Bluefield, West Virginia. 
Zeng Wi, Shanghi Museum, China. 
Atecca Williams, American Embassy, Suva, Fiji. 
Jean Wilson, The Denver Art Museum, Denver, Colorado. 
Kim Young-Won, National Museum, Korea. 
Zhou Xiuquin, Shanghi Museum, China. 

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER 

Susan S. Eaton, American University. Archival research in education, with 
Laura Greenberg, from January 12 through April 4, 1983. 



440 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



APPENDIX 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press 
in Fiscal Year 1983 



GENERAL PUBLICATIONS 

TRADE PUBLICATIONS 

Karen A. Bjorndal, editor. Biology and Conservation of Sea Turtles: Proceed- 
ings of the World Conference on Sea Turtle Conservation. 583 pages, 99 
tables, 98 figures, 22 maps, 8 black-and-white illustrations. December 6, 1982. 
Paper: $25.00. 

Mary Alice Heekin Burke. Elizabeth Nourse (1859-1938): A Salon Career. 280 
pages, 12 color and 388 black-and-white illustrations. January 5, 1983. Cloth: 

$47.50. 

William K. Emerson. Chevrons: Illustrated History and Catalog of U.S. Army 
Insignia. 298 pages, 51 color and 557 black-and-white illustrations. June 30, 
1983. Cloth: $49.50. 

Monroe, H. Fabian. Mr. Sully, Portrait Painter: The Works of Thomas Sully 
(1783-1872). 127 pages, 16 color and 92 black-and-white illustrations. May 31, 
1983. Cloth: $35.00. 

Oliver W. Holmes and Peter T. Rohrbach. Stagecoast East: Stagecoach Days 
in the East from the Colonial Period to the Civil War. 234 pages, 37 black- 
and-white illustrations. August 15, 1983. Cloth: $17.50. 

Jarrell C. Jackman and Carla M. Borden, editors. The Muses Flee Hitler: 
Cultural Transfer and Adaptation, 1930-1945. 348 pages, 17 black-and-white 
illustrations. April 4, 1983. Cloth: $17.50; paper: $8.95. 

Paul A. Johnsgard. Hummingbirds of North America. 303 pages, 16 color and 
75 black-and-white illustrations, 9 tables. June 30, 1983. Cloth: $35.00. 

Benjamin S. Kelsey. The Dragon's Teeth? The Creation of United States Air 
Power for World War II. 148 pages, 72 black-and-white illustrations. Febru- 
ary 15, 1983. Cloth: $15.00. 

Gregory P. Kennedy. Vengeance Weapon 2: The V-2 Guided Missile. August 
12, 1983. 88 pages, 113 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $9.95. 

Egbert G. Leigh, A. Stanley Rand, and Donald M. Windsor, editors. The Ecol- 
ogy of a Tropical Forest: Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes. 468 
pages, 142 black-and-white illustrations. April 16, 1983. Paper: $25.00. 

Patrick M. Mayerchak. Scholars' Guide to Washington, D.C. for Southeast 
Asian Studies. 411 pages. April 22, 1983. Cloth: $29.95; paper: $12.50. 

Donald J. Ortner, editor. How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey, xxi -|- 
560 pages. 30 figures, 15 tables. April 22, 1983. Cloth: $19.95; Paper: $9.95. 

Victor G. Springer, Pacific Plate Biogeography with Special Reference to 
Shorefishes. 182 pages, 65" figures, 5 tables. December 22, 1982. Paper: $7.95. 



Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications I 441 



Thomas Vennum, Jr. The OUbwa Dance Drum. Its History and Construction. 
320 pages, 108 black-and-white illustrations, 3 maps. May 4, 1983. Paper: 
$12.50. 

Claudia Wilds. Finding Birds in the National Capital Area. 215 pages, 12 
black-and-white illustrations, 30 maps. May 30, 1983. Paper: $10.95. 

Stephen E. Weil. Beauty and the Beasts: On Museums, Art, the Law, and the 
Market, xvi + 256 pages. June 24, 1983. Cloth: $19.95; paper: $9.95. 

Frank H. Winter. Prelude to the Space Age: The Rocket Societies: 1924-1940. 
221 pages, 52 black-and-white illustrations. August 21, 1983. Paper: $15.00. 

TRADE REPRINTS 

Edwin T. Adney and Howard I. Chapelle. The Bark Canoes and Skin Boats 
of North America, xiv -f 242 pages, 224 black-and-white illustrations. March, 
1983. Cloth: $19.95. 

Michael Barrier and Martin Williams, editors. A Smithsonian Book of Comic 
Book Comics. 336 pages, 300 color illustrations. May 1983. Cloth: $25.00. 

Tom D. Crouch, editor. Charles 4- Lindbergh: An American Life. 128 pages, 
46 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $6.50. 

R. E. G. Davies. Airlines of the United States since 1914. 746 pages, 517 
black-and-white illustrations, 29 maps, 27 tables. January 1983. Cloth: $35.00. 

Paul E. Desautels. The Gem Collection. 77 pages, 45 color and 9 black-and- 
white illustrations. June 1983. Cloth: $12.50; paper: $8.95. 

Allan A. Hodges and Carol A. Hodges. Washington on Foot. Second Edition. 
202 pages. May 1983. Paper: $4.50. 

Allen Keast and Eugene S. Morton, editors. Migrant Birds in the Neotropics: 
Ecology, Behavior, Distribution, and Conservation. 576 pages, 169 figures, 138 
tables, 33 black-and-white illustrations. October 1982. Cloth: $35.00; paper: 
$22.50. 

Margaret Klapthor. The First Ladies Hall. 24 pages, 9 color and 49 black-and- 
white illustrations. Fifth printing. Revised. February 1983. Paper: $3.50. 

Luis G. Lumbreras. The Peoples and Cultures of Ancient Peru. 248 pages. 
February 1983. Paper: $12.95. 

Jacqueline S. Olin and Alan D. Franklin. Archaeological Ceramics. 256 pages, 
122 black-and-white illustrations, 2 maps, 46 tables. September 1983. Cloth: 
$22.50. 

Alan Stone, et al., editors. A Catalog of the Diptera of America North of 
Mexico. 1,700 pages. April 1983. Cloth: $37.50. 

Frederick W. True. The Whalebone Whales of the Western North Atlantic. 
380 pages, 188 black-and-white illustrations. January 1983. Cloth: $35.00. 

Victor Turner. Celebration: Studies in Festivity and Ritual. 320 pages, 118 
black-and-white illustrations. June 1983. Cloth: $25.00; paper: $9.95. 

TRADE DISTRIBUTION 

Olivia Stokes Hatch. Olivia's African Diary: Capetown to Cairo, 1932. 162 
pages, 52 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $12.50. 

Alfonso Ortiz, editor. Southwest: Handbook of North American Indians, 
volume 10. 868 pages, 488 black-and-white illustrations. September 1983. 
Cloth: $25.00. 



442 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



RECORDINGS DIVISION 

Gunther Schuller and Martin Williams. Big Band Jazz: From the Beginnings 
to the Fifties. Six phonograph records and book. Big Band Jazz: From the 
Beginnings to the Fifties. 52 pages. August 1983. $41.96. 

ANNUAL REPORTS 

American Historical Association Annual Report, 1981. vii + 207 pages. Octo- 
ber 1982. 

Report of the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, 1981. 16 
pages. October 1982. 

Report of the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, 1982. 15 
pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. September 1983. 

Report of the Office of Folklife Programs, 1981. 8 pages, 4 black-and-white 
illustrations. December 1982. 

Report of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1982. 28 pages, 2 
black-and-white illustrations. September 1983. 

Smithsonian Year 1982. vii -f- 639 pages, 70 black-and-white illustrations. 
May 1983. 

Statement by the Secretary. 67 pages, 16 black-and-white illustrations. May 
1983. 

BOOKS 

Conservation Analytical Laboratory 

Theodore A. and Steven F. Wertime. Early Pyrotechnology: The Evoluation of 
the First Fire-Using Industries. 294 pages, 156 black-and-white illustrations. 
January 1983. 

Museum Shops 

Peter F. Copeland. Dinosaurs and Other Strange Creatures: A Smithsonian 
Coloring Book. 32 pages, 31 black-and-white illustrations. May 1983. 

Peter F. Copeland. Balloons: A Smithsonian Coloring Book. 32 pages, 31 
black-and-white illustrations. May 1983. 

Geraldine Lucas, illustrator. The First Ladies: A Smithsonian Coloring Book. 
32 pages, 31 black-and-white illustrations. May 1983. 

Paul Salmon, illustrator. Aircraft: A Smithsonian Coloring Book. 32 pages, 
31 black-and-white illustrations. June 1983. 

Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies 

Roy S. Bryce-LaPorte and Delores Mortimer. Caribbean Immigration to the 
United States: RUES Occasional Papers No. 1. Second Printing. 208 pages. 
January 1983. 

William F. Stinner, Klaus De Albuquerque, Roy S. Bryce La-Porte. Return 
Migration and Remittances: Developing A Caribbean Perspective. 316 pages. 
January 1983. 

BOOKLETS 

Freer Gallery of Art 

Seventh Presentation of the Charles Lang Freer Medal. 32 pages, 16 black- 
and-white illustrations. September 1983. 

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications I 443 



National Air and Space Museum 

Education Services Division: National Air and Space Museum. 16 pages, 16 
black-and-white illustrations. June 1983. 

National Museum Act 

National Museum Act Guidelines for 1983: Grant Programs. 24 pages. Octo- 
ber 1982. 

National Museum Act Guidelines for 1984: Grant Programs. 24 pages. Sep- 
tember 1983. 

National Museum of American Art 

Gallery Guide to the National Museum of American Art. 6 pages, 8 black- 
and-white illustrations. October 1982. 

National Portrait Gallery 

The National Portrait Gallery. 14 pages, 24 black-and-white illustrations. 
August 1983. 

Office of Contributing Membership. 

Invitation to Join the James Smithson Society. 12 pages. September 1983. 

Seventh Annual Dinner of the James Smithson Society. 19 pages. September 
1983. 

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education 

Of Kayaks and Ulus. 5 booklets, 16 pages each, and Teachers Guide. 24 
pages, 83 black-and-white illustrations throughout. April 1983. 

The Smithsonian in a Few Words. 28 pages, 1 color and 28 black-and-white 
illustrations. August 1983. 

Office of Fellowships and Grants 

Smithsonian Opportunities for Research and Study in History, Art, and 
Science. 150 pages. September 1983. 

Office of Horticulture 
Trees of Christmas. 6 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. December 1982. 

Office of Museum Programs 
Workshop Series, June 1983-May 1984. 16 pages. May 1983. 

Office of Public Affairs 
Employment at the Smithsonian: Questions & Answers. 15 pages. June 1983. 

Secretary's Office 

Bylaws of the Board of Regents and Charter Provisions of the Smithsonian 
Institution. June 1983. 

Smithsonian Institution Libraries 
Central Reference Services Branch. 4 pages. November 1982. 
Conservation Analytical Laboratory Branch. 4 pages. November 1982. 
Cooper-Hewitt Museum Branch. 4 pages. November 1982. 
Museum Reference Center Branch. 4 pages. November 1982. 



444 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



National Air and Space Museum Branch. 4 pages. November 1982. 
National Museum of American History Branch. 4 pages. November 1982. 
National Museum of Natural History Branch. 4 pages. November 1982. 
National Zoological Park Branch. 4 pages. November 1982. 
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Branch. 4 pages. November 1982. 
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute Branch. 4 pages. November 1982. 
Special Collections Branch. 4 pages. November 1982. 

Visitors' Information and Reception Center 

Philip Kopper. Volunteer! O Volunteer! A Salute to the Smithsonian's Unpaid 
Legions. 46 pages, 8 black-and-white illustrations. December 1982. 

The Smithsonian Institution: An Overview. 24 pages, 10 black-and-white 
illustrations. May 1983. 

EXHIBITION CATALOGS 
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum 

Through Their Eyes. The Art of Lou and Di Stoval. September 18-December 
18, 1983. 27 pages, 22 color and 3 black-and-white illustrations. August 1983. 

Victor Govier. "Here, Look at Mine!" Selected Works of John N. Richardson 
and Larry Francis Lebby. 7 pages, 6 black-and-white illustrations. December 
1982. 

Archives of American Art 

From the Life of the Artist: A Documentary View of David Smith. 56 pages, 
36 black-and-white illustrations. November 1982. 

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden 

Friedel Dzubas. 91 pages. 43 color and 18 black-and-white illustrations. June 
1983. 

Joseph Stella: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Collection. 64 
pages, 35 black-and-white illustrations. June 1983. 

Phyllis D. Rosenzweig. Directions, 1983. 88 pages, 43 black-and-white, 5 color 
illustrations. March 1983. 

National Museum of African Art 

Bryna Freyer and Edward Lifschitz. From the Earth: African Ceramic Art. 
13 pages, 8 black-and-white illustrations. April 1983. 

Roslyn Walker. African Art in Color. 13 pages, 12 black-and-white illustra- 
tions. April 1983. 

National Museum of American Art 

Adelyn D. Breeskin and Virginia Mecklenburg. Jose de Creeft: Sculpture and 
Drawings. 64 pages, 76 black-and-white illustrations. April 1983. 

Mary Alice Heekin Burke. Elizabeth Nourse (1859-1938): A Salon Career. 280 
pages, 12 color plates and 388 black-and-white illustrations. January 1983. 

National Portrait Gallery 
James G. Barber and Frederick Voss. Blessed are the Peacemakers: A Com- 



Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications I 445 



memoration of the 200th Anniversary of the Treaty of Paris. 47 pages, 10 
color and 22 black-and-white illustrations. August 1982. 

. Portraits from the New Deal. 40 pages, 32 black-andwhite illustra- 
tions. March 1983. 

Smithsonian Institution Libraries 

Jack Goodman. Exhibition of Trade Catalogues: Clothing and Allied Indus- 
tries. 9 pages, 4 black-and-white illustrations. November 1982. 

EXHIBITION CHECKLISTS 
National Museum of American Art 

Clay for Walls: Surface Reliefs by American Artists. 5 pages, 6 color and 4 
black-and-white illustrations. September 1983. 

Elizabeth Nourse: A Salon Career, 1859-1938. 12 pages. July 1983. 

National Portrait Gallery 

National Portrait Gallery Permanent Collection Illustrated Checklist. 320 
pages, 1,274 black-and-white illustrations. November 1982. 

FLYERS 

Freer Gallery of Art 

Chinese Bronze Mirrors. 1 page, 4 black-and-white illustrations. September 
1983. 

Freer Gallery of Art (pamphlet for the visually impaired.) 3 pages, 3 black- 
and-white illustrations. July 1983. 

National Air and Space Museum 

Flight and the Founding Fathers: Bicentennial of the Treaty of Paris. 1 page, 
2 black-and-white illustrations. August 1983. 

National Museum of American Art 

An Evening at Barney Studio House, Program 2. 1 page. February 1983. 

An Evening at Barney Studio House, Program 3. 1 page. March 1983. 

An Evening at Barney Studio House, Program 4. 1 page, May 1983. 

An Evening at Barney Studio House, Program 5. 1 page. July 1983. 

Library of the National Museum of American Art /National Portrait Gallery. 
1 page, 2 black-and-white illustrations. June 1983. 

Renwick Gallery of the National Museum of American Art. 4 pages, 5 black- 
and-white illustrations. May 1983. 

Office of Contributing Membership 
The James Smithson Society Enrollment Form. 1 page. September 1983. 
The James Smithson Society Membership Benefits. 1 page. September 1983. 

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education 

Invest a summer in the internship program of the Smithsonian Institution. 6 
pages, 6 black-and-white illustrations. May 1983. 



446 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Office of Fellowship and Grants 

Smithsonian Fellowships. 1 page, 11 black-and-white illustrations. September 
1983. 

Office of Horticulture 
The American Garden at IGA. 1 page. June 1983. 

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars 
"The Work of Peace." 4 pages. May 1983. 

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute 

Research Opportunities in the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. 1 
page. August 1983. 

FOLDERS 

National Museum of American Art 

The Capital Image: Painters in Washington, 1800-1915. 1 page, 1 black-and- 
white illustration. September 1983. 

Office of Public Affairs 

Welcome to the Smithsonian Institution. 10 pages, 17 black-and-white illus- 
trations. June 1983. 

Visitors' Information and Reception Center 

Does the Mail Get You Down? PIMS Can Help. 2 pages, 2 black-and-white 
illustrations. May 1983. 

INVITATIONS 

Freer Gallery of Art 
Charles L. Freer Memorial Medal. May 1983. 
Oriental Art Lecture Series. April 1983. 
Seventh Presentation of the Charles Lang Freer Medal. April 1983. 

National Museum of American Art 
The Capital Image: Painters in Washington, 1800-1915. September 1983. 
Charles Hawthorne: The Late Watercolors. July 1983. 
Clay for Walls. September 1983. 

Elizabeth Nourse, 1859-1938: A Salon Career. December 1982. 
The International Style: A Modernist Critique. January 1983. 
Joseph Cornell: An Exploration of Resources. November 1982. 
Jose de Creeft: Sculpture and Drawings. February 1983. 
Mr. Sully, Portrait Painter. July 1983. 
The Prints of Louis Lozowick. October 1982. 
Scandinavian Modern. June 1983. 

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars 
The Muses Flee Hitler. April 1983. 

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications I 447 



Smithsonian Institution Libraries 
Conservation at the Smithsonian Institution. September 1982. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

National Air and Space Museum 

Biographical Study Prints. 12 pages, 14 black-and-white illustrations. October 
1982. 

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education 
Art to Zoo. 
Let's Co To the Smithsonian. 

POSTERS 

National Museum of American Art 
The Capital Image: Painters in Washington, 1800-1915. September 1983. 
Scandinavian Modern. June 1983. 
Mr. Sully, Portrait Painter. July 1983. 
Joseph Cornell: An Explanation of Resources. November 1982. 

SERIES PUBLICATIONS 

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO BOTANY 

53. Patricia G. Palmer and Alice E. Tucker. "A Scanning Electron Microscope 
Survey of the Epidermis of East African Grasses, II." 72 pages, 52 plates. 
March 22, 1983. 

54. Harold Robinson. "A Generic Review of the Tribe Liabeae (Asteraceae). 
69 pages, 16 figures. April 28, 1983. 

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE EARTH SCIENCES 

25. Brian Mason and S. R. Taylor. "Inclusions in the Allende Meteorite." 30 
pages, 23 figures, 5 tables. October 5, 1982. 

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE MARINE SCIENCES 

14. Stephen J. Culver and Martin A. Buzas. "Distribution of Recent Benthic 
Foraminifera in the Caribbean Region." 382 pages, 131 figures. November 17, 
1982. 

15. Walter H. Adey, Roberta A. Townsend, and William T. Boykins. "The 
Crustose Coralline Algae (Rhodophyta: Corallinaceae) of the Hawaiian 
Islands." 74 pages, 47 figures. December 17, 1982. 

16. Martin A. Buzas and Kenneth P. Severin. "Distribution and Systematics 
of Formanifera in the Indian River, Florida." 73 pages, 25 figures, 6 tables, 
11 plates. November 22, 1982. 

17. Ernani G. Menez and Hilconida P. Calumpong. "The Genus Caulerpa 
from Central Visayas, Philippines." 21 pages, 2 figures, 3 plates. October 5, 
1982. 

18. Robert P. Higgins. "The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow 
Cay, Behze, 2: Kinorhyncha." 131 pages, 343 figures, 23 tables. May 18, 1983. 



448 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



19. Daniel Jean Stanley. "Parallel Laminated Deep-Sea Muds and Coupled 
Gravity Flow — Hemipelagic Settling in the Mediterranean." 19 pages, 7 fig- 
ures. March 31, 1983. 

20. David L. Pawson and John E. Miller. "Systematics and Ecology of the 
Sea-Urchin Genus Centrostephanus (Echinodermata: Echinoidea) from the 
Atlantic and Eastern Pacific Oceans." 15 pages, 5 figures, 5 tables. September 
26, 1983. 

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO PALEOBIOLOGY 

53. Clayton E. Ray, editor. "Geology and Paleontology of the Lee Creek 
Mine, North Carolina, Volume L 529 pages, frontispiece, 95 figures, 101 
plates, 8 tables. September 13, 1983. 

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ZOOLOGY 

356. Kristian Fauchald. "Revision of Onuphis, Northia and Paradiopatra 
(Polychaeta: Onuphidae) Based upon Type Material." 109 pages, 28 figures, 
34 tables. October 21, 1983. 

360. J. Laurens Barnard and Margaret M. Drummond. "Gammaridean Amphi- 
poda of Australia, Part V: Superfamily Haustorioidea." 148 pages, 58 figures, 
1 table. December 30, 1982. 

361. W. Donald Duckworth and Thomas D. Eichlin. "Revision of the Clear- 
wing Moth Genus Osminia (Lepidoptera: Sesiidae)." 15 pages, 27 figures, 1 
map. April 18, 1983. 

362. Brian Kensley and Use Walker. "Palaemonid Shrimps from the Amazon 
Basin, Brazil (Crustacea: Decapoda: Natantia." 28 pages, 24 figures, 3 tables. 
October 5, 1982. 

363. Robert H. Gore. "Porcellanid Crabs from the Pacific and Atlantic Coasts 
of Central America (Crustacea: Decapoda: Anomura)." 34 pages, 2 figures, 
1 table. October 5, 1982. 

364. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., and C. W. Hart, Jr. "The Shrimp Genus Atya 
(Decapoda: Atyidae)." 143 pages, 53 figures, 1 table. December 29, 1982. 

365. Storrs L. Olson and Helen F. James. "Prodromus of the Fossil Avifauna 
of the Hawaiian Islands." 59 pages, 12 figures. December 1, 1982. 

366. Alan Feduccia and Storrs L. Olson. "Morphological Similarities between 
the Menurae and the Rhinocryptidae, Relict Passerine Birds of the Southern 
Hemisphere." 22 pages, 17 figures, 1 table. October 5, 1982. 

367. Victor G. Springer. "Pacific Plate Biogeography, with Special Reference 
to Shorefishes." 182 pages, 65 figures, 5 tables. December 22, 1982. 

368. David K. Camp and Raymond B. Manning. "Five New Species of Nan- 
nosquilla from the Northwestern Atlantic (Crustacea: Stomatopoda)." 15 
pages, 9 figures. November 4, 1982. 

369. Dan Gerling, Paul D. Hurd, Jr., and Abraham Hefetz. "Comparative Be- 
havioral Biology of Two Middle East Species of Carpenter Bees {Xylocopa 
Latreille) (Hymenoptera : Apoidea)." 33 pages, 30 figures, 7 tables. February 
14, 1983. 

370. John B. Heppner. "Millieriinae, a New Subfamily of Choreautidae, with 
New Taxa from Chile and the United States (Lepidoptera: Sesioidea)." 27 
pages, 63 figures, 1 table. October 5, 1982. 



Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications I 449 



371. Louis S. Kornicker. "Rutidermatidae of the Continental Shelf of South- 
eastern North America and the Gulf of Mexico (Ostracoda: Myodocopina)." 
89 pages, 51 figures, 3 plates, 1 table. June 2, 1983. 

372. J. Laurens Barnard and Charline M. Barnard. "Revision of Foxiphalus 
and Eobrolgus (Crustacea: Amphipoda: Phoxocephalidae) from American 
Oceans." 35 pages, 5 figures. December 1, 1982. 

374. Karl V. Krombein. "Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, IX: A 
Monograph of the Tiphiidae (Hymenoptera : Vespoidea)." 121 pages, 64 fig- 
ures. November 2, 1982. 

375. James Darwin Thomas and J. Laurens Barnard. "The Platyischnopidae 
of America (Crustacea: Amphipoda)." 33 pages, 12 figures, 2 tables. March 
22, 1983. 

376. Karl V. Krombein. "Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XI: A 
Monograph of the Amiseginae and Loboscelidiinae (Hymenoptera: Chrysi- 
didae)." 79 pages, 71 figures, 1 table. May 18, 1983. 

377. Oliver S. Flint, Jr. "Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XXXIII: New 
Species from Austral South America (Trichoptera)." 100 pages, 345 figures. 
April 12, 1983. 

378. Richard P. Vari. "Phylogenetic Relationships of the Families Curimati- 
dae, Prochilodontidae, Anostomidae, and Chilodontidae (Pisces: Characi- 
formes)." 60 pages, 41 figures, 1 table. May 3, 1983. 

379. Louis S. Kornicker. "The Ostracode Family Cypridinidae and the Genus 
Pterocypridina." 29 pages, 9 figures, 4 plates, 2 tables. April 22, 1983. 

380. Robert H. Gibbs, Jr., Thomas A. Clarke, and Janet R. Gomon. "Taxon- 
omy and Distribution of the Stomioid Fish Genus Eustomias (Melanosto- 
miidae), I: Subgenus Nominostomias." 139 pages, 44 figures, 13 tables. Sep- 
tember 20, 1983. 

381. Fenner A. Chace, Jr. "The Caridean Shrimps (Crustacea: Decapoda) of 
the Albatross Philippine Expedition, 1907-10, Part I: Family Stylodactylidae." 
21 pages, 8 figures. September 12, 1983. 



450 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



APPENDIX 6. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian 

Institution and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1983 

Publications are by staff members and, in some instances, 
research associates, collaborators, and fellows. 



SCIENCE 

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM 
Office of the Director 

Boyne, Walter J. Aircraft Treasures of Silver Hill: The Behind-the-Scenes 
Workshop of Our Nation's Air Museums. New York: Rawson Associates, 
1982. 

. "Martin-Baker MB 5." Air Line Pilot 51(10) (1982). 

. "Curtiss XP-87 Blackhawk." Air Line Pilot 51 (11) (1982). 

. "Fairchild F-46." Air Line Pilot 51(12) (1982). 

. "Curtiss XP-31." Air Line Pilot 52(1)(1983). 

. "Martin GMP." Air Line Pilot 52(2) (1983). 

. "Pterodactyl IB." Air Line Pilot 52(3) (1983). 

. "Hodkinson HT-1." Air Line Pilot 52(4) (1983). 

. "Caproni-Campini N.l." Air Line Pilot 52(5) (1983). 

. "Great Lakes XSG-1." Air Line Pilot 52(6)(1983). 

. "Breese-Dallas." Air Line Pilot 52(7) (1983). 

. "GA-X." Air Line Pilot 52(8)(1983). 

. "The 757 Advantage." Eastern Review (1983). 

. "TheB-52 Story." Air University Review (November-December 1982). 

. "The MiG Jets: From Myth to Menace." VJings 13(1) (1983). 

Center for Earth and Planetary Studies 

Andre, C. G., and Strain, P. L. "The Lunar Nearside Highlands: Evidence of 

Resurfacing." Journal of Geophysical Research 88(1983) :A544-A552. 
El-Baz, F., and Maxwell, T. A. Desert Landforms of Southwest Egypt: A Basis 

for Comparison with Mars. Washington, D.C.: NASA CR-3611, 1982. 
Haynes, C. V., and Maxwell, T. A. "Desert Navigation." In Desert Landforms 

of Southwest Egypt: A Basis for Comparison with Mars, pp. 27-36. NASA 

CR-3611, 1982. 
Hubbard, N., and Andre, C. G. [Abstract] "Lunar Magma Genesis: The Role 

of Large, Late Impacts." EOS 64(1983) :256. 
Jacobberger, P. A.; Arvidson, R. E.; and Rashka, D. L. "Applications of 

Landsat Multispectral Scanner Data and Sediment Spectral Reflectance 

Measurements to Mapping of the Meatiq Dome, Egypt." Geology. In press. 
Maxwell, T. A. "Orientation and Origin of Ridges in the Lunae Palus- 

Coprates Region of Mars." Journal of Geophysical Research 87(1982) :A97- 

A108. 
. [Abstract] "Plains Ridges: Indicators of Compressional Stress on the 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 451 



Moon, Mars and Mercury." Reports of Planetary Geology Program — 1982, 
pp. 277-78. NASA TM-85127, 1982. 

"Sand Sheets and Lag Deposits in the Southwestern Desert." In 



Desert Landforms of Southwest Egypt: A Basis for Comparison with Mars, 
pp. 157-73. NASA CR-3611, 1982. 

'Erosional Patterns of the Gilf Kebir Plateau and Implications for the 



Origin of Martian Canyonlands." In Desert Landforms of Southwest Egypt: 
A Basis for Comparison with Mars, pp. 281-300. NASA CR-3611, 1982. 

[Abstract] "Identification of Tectonic Trends in the Polar Regions of 



the Inner Planets: Preliminary Results for the Moon and Mars." In Lunar 
and Planetary Science XIV, pp. 470-71. Houston: Lunar and Planetary 
Institute, 1983. 

[Review] Planets of Rock and Ice: From Mercury to the Moons of 



Saturn, by C. R. Chapman. Science Books and Films 18(1982) :131. 

[Review] The Earth: Changes in its Surface, by Coronet Films. Sci- 



ence Books and Films 18(1982) :284. 

Maxwell, T. A., and El-Baz, F. "Analogs of Martian Eolian Features in the 
Western Desert of Egypt." In Desert Landforms of Southwest Egypt: A 
Basis for Comparison with Mars, pp. 247-59. NASA CR-3611, 1982. 

Strain, P. L., and Andre, C. G. [Abstract] "The Relationship of Rilles and 
High Magnesium Material in the Cauchy Region of the Moon." In Lunar 
and Planetary Science XIV, pp. 751-52. Houston: Lunar and Planetary 
Institute, 1983. 

Watters, T. R., and Maxwell, T. A. [Abstract] "Strain Estimates for the 
Ridged Plains of Mars: Evidence of Compression in the Coprates Quad- 
rangle." In Reports of Planetary Geology Program — 1982, pp. 279-80. 
NASA TM-85127, 1982. 

. [Abstract] "Lithospheric Thickness Based on Volcano Spacing in the 

Tharsis Region of Mars." In Lunar and Planetary Science XIV, pp. 836-37. 
Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1983. 

[Abstract] "Estimates of the Extent and Magnitude of Compressional 



Deformation Southeast of the Tharsis Region of Mars." In EOS 64(1983) : 
257. 
Watters, T. R., and Stephens, G. C. [Abstract] "SEM and Electron Microprobe 
Studies of Dissolution Cleavage in the Martinsburg Formation of Northern 
Virginia." In Geological Society of America Bulletin Annual Meeting 
15(1983) :175. 

Department of Aeronautics 

Crouch, Tom D. Flight and the Founding Fathers. Washington, D.C. : Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Davies, R. E. G. Airlines of the United States since 1914. Washington, D.C: 
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

. "The Early Airlines, 1919-1929." Air and Space 6(2) (1982). 

. "The Great Days of the Airmail." Air and Space 6(2) (1982). 

. "SABENA— Belgian Airlines." Exxon Air World 35(1) (1983). 

. "Marcel Bouilloux-Lafont — Was This the Shattered Dream? Part 1." 

Air Pictorial 45 (7) (1983). 

. "Marcel Bouilloux-Lafont — Was This the Shattered Dream? Part 2." 



Air Pictorial 45(8)(1983). 

-. "The World's Sixth Oldest Airline." Finnair, the Art of Flying Since 



1923. Finland: Finnair, 1983. 
Hardesty, Von D. "Conflict and Stability in the Development of Modern 
Europe, 1870-1970." Student Course Guide, National University Consor- 
tium. Lexington, Mass. : Ginn Custom Publishing, 1982. 



452 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Hardesty, Von D., and Pisano, Dominick A. Black Wings: The American 

Black in Aviation. Washington, D.C. : National Air and Space Museum, 

1983. 
Kelsey, Benjamin S. The Dragon's Teeth? The Creation of United States Air 

Power for World War II. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 

1982. 
Mikesh, Robert C. Aircraft Engines in Museums Around the World, Sections 

I and 11. Washington, D.C. : National Air and Space Museum, 1982. 
. Balloon Bomb Attacks on North America, Japan's World War II 

Assaults. Fallbrook, Calif.: Aero Publishers, Inc., 1983. 

"Tales of the Blue Mallards, Virgin Islands Seaplane Shuttle." Pro- 



fessional Pilot 17(6) (1983). 

'An Albatros in America." Scale Models 14(166) (1983). 



Oakes, Claudia M., and Joels, Kerry M. Milestones of Flight: Pathfinders in 
the Sky. Washington, D.C: National Air and Space Museum, 1983. 

Oakes, Claudia M. "Flight Attendants." Air and Space 6(2) (1982). 

Pisano, Dominick A. "Blacks in Commercial Aviation." Air and Space 6(2) 
(1982). 

Pisano, Dominick A., and Hardesty, Von D. Black Wings: The American 
Black in Aviation. Washington, D.C: National Air and Space Museum, 
1983. 

Spenser, Jay P. "The Green and Gray Hornet: Messerschmitt Me 210/410." 
Wings 13(1) (1983). 

. "Ocean Conquest: The Thoroughbred Propeller Airliner." Air and 

Space 6(2)(1982). 

van der Linden, F. Robert, and Winter, Frank H. [Monthly column] "Out of 
the Past — An Aerospace Chronology." Astronautics and Aeronautics. (Oc- 
tober 1982-September 1983). 

Department of Space Science and Exploration 
Chamberlain, Von Del. When Stars Came Down to Earth: Cosmology of the 
Skidi Pawnee Indians of North America. Los Altos, Calif, and College Park, 
Md. : Ballena Press/Center for Archaeoastronomy, 1982. 

. [Review] Ceremonies of the Pawnee: Parts I and II, by James R. 

Murie, ed. Douglas R. Parks. Archaeoastronomy 5(3) :15-17(1982). 
-. "Different Views of Earth and Sky." Air and Space 6(4)(1983). 



DeVorkin, David H. Nine articles on astronomical satellites contributed to 

Rockets, Missiles and Spacecraft of the National Air and Space Museum. 

Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

. "Our Local Star." Air and Space 6(4) (1983). 

DeVorkin, David H., and Kenat, R. "Quantum Physics and the Stars (I) : The 

Establishment of a Stellar Temperature Scale." Journal for the History of 

Astronomy 14 (June 1983). 
Hanle, Paul A. "The Beeping Ball That Started a Dash into Outer Space." 

Smithsonian 13(7):148-67 (October 1982). 
. [Introduction] Rockets, Missiles and Spacecraft of the National Air 

and Space Museum. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 
Joels, Kerry M. Eleven articles on applications and military satellites in 

Rockets, Missiles and Spacecraft of the National Air and Space Museum. 

Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 
Joels, Kerry M., and Kennedy, Gregory P. The Space Shuttle Operator's 

Manual. New York: Ballentine Books, 1982. 
Joels, Kerry M., and Oakes, Claudia M. Milestones of Flight: Pathfinders in 

the Sky. Washington, D.C: National Air and Space Museum, 1983. 
Kennedy, Gregory P. Vengeance Weapon Two: The V-2 Guided Missile. 

Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 453 



, comp. Rockets, Missiles and Spacecraft of the National Air and Space 

Museum. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 
"Spaceflight: A New Perspective." Air and Space 6(4) (1983). 



Kennedy, Gregory P., and Joels, Kerry M. The Space Shuttle Operator's 
Manual. New York: Ballentine Books, 1982. 

Needell, Allan A., ed. The First 25 Years in Space. Washington, D.C: Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1983. 

. "An Arena of Applied Science," [Review of JPL and the American 

Space Program by Clayton Koppes] Science 219(4586): 840-41 (February 
1983). 

-. Fourteen articles on geophysical satellites in Rockets, Missiles and 



Spacecraft of the National Air and Space Museum. Washington, D.C: 
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Purnell, Louis R. Three articles on space suits in Rockets, Missiles and Space- 
craft of the National Air and Space Museum. Washington, D.C: Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Winter, Frank H. Seven articles on early rockets in Rockets, Missiles and 
Spacecraft of the National Air and Space Museum. Washington, D.C: 
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

. "A New Look at Early Chinese Rocketry, 1200's-1900." Journal of the 

British Interplanetary Society — Astronautics History 35(12) :522-29 (Decem- 
ber 1982). 

'Celebrating Goddard's Centenary." Spaceflight 25(4)154-56 (April 



1983). 

Prelude to the Space Age: The Rocket Societies 1924-1940. Washing- 



ton, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

"Robert Hutchings Goddard." Astronautics and Aeronautics 20:77-78 



(October 1982). 

-. "Space Station: Circa 1920's." Space World 1-6-7-234-35:7-8 (June- 



July 1983). 

Winter, Frank H., and James, George S. "Early Educator-Supervised Student 
Rocketry — The GALCIT Rocket Research Project, 1936-1939: A Tribute to 
Frank J. Malina." AIAA Student Journal 20(4) :21-28 (Winter 1982-83). 

Winter, Frank H., and van der Linden, F. Robert. [Monthly column] "Out of 
the Past — An Aerospace Chronology." Astronautics and Aeronautics (Octo- 
ber 1982-September 1983). 

Spacearium Division 

Callen, Thomas H. [Quarterly column] "Sky Map." Air and Space 6(1) (1982) 
through 6(4)(1983). 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY/ 
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF MAN 

Department of Anthropology 

Angel, J. Lawrence. "Ancient Skeletons from Asine." Appendix 1: 105-38. 

In Soren Dietz, Excavations at Asine 1970-1977, Kobenhavn, Denmark, 

1982. 
. "Osteoarthritis and Occupation (Ancient and Modern)." Second 

Anthropological Congress of Ales Hrdlicka, ed. V. V. Novotny, Universitas 

Carolina Pragensis, Charles University, Prague, (1982) : 443-46. 
Bowen, Thomas, and Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. "Synonymy" in the chapter 

"Seri." In Southwest, ed. Alfonso Ortiz, Handbook of North American 

Indians 10:247-48. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian 

Institution, 1983. 



454 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Bragdon, Kathleen Joan. "Occupational Differences Reflected in Material Cul- 
ture." Council for Northeast Historical Archaeology 10(1982) :25-56. 

. "Crime and Punishment Among the Indians of Massachusetts, 1675- 

1750." Ethnohistory 28(1) :23-32. 

Burch, Ernest S., Jr. "Sociodemographic Correlates of House Structures in 
Three Beringian Populations: An Exploratory Study." Cultures of the 
Bering Sea Region: Papers from an International Symposium, ed. Henry N. 
Michael and James W. Van Stone. New York: published for the American 
Council of Learned Societies and the Academy of Sciences of the USSR 
by the International Research and Exchanges Board, 1983. (Translation of 
1981 paper published in Russian.) 

Caldwell, Peggy C. "Private Schools for Physical Anthropologists." Physical 
Anthropology News 1(2) (1982) :18. 

. "The Human Remains Discovered in the San Carlos River Valley 

Excavations." In Mogollon, Hohokam and Western Pueblo Settlement and 
Subsistence in the San Carlos River Valley, San Carlos, Arizona, ed. K. 
Ditzler, Appendix A. Tempe: Archaeological Research Services, 1981. 

Crocker, William H. "Ultimate Reality and Meaning for the Ramkokamekra- 
Canela (Eastern Timbira, Brazil: A Triadic Dualistic Cognitive Pattern." 
Ultimate Reality and Meaning: Interdisciplinary Studies in the Philosophy 
of Understanding 6(2)(1983) :84-lll. University of Toronto Press, Canada. 

Evans, Clifford, and Betty J. Meggers. "Tecnicas decorativas diagnosticas y 
variantes regionales Chorrera, un analisis preliminar. "Primer Simposio de 
Correlaciones Antropologicas Andino-Mesoamericano, 25-31 de julio de 
1971, pp. 121-33. Guayaquil: Escuela Superior Politecnica del Litoral, 1982. 

Ewers, John C. "A Century and a Half of Blackfeet Picture-writing." Ameri- 
can Indian Art 8(3) (1983) :52-61. 

. "William Standing (1904-1951): Versatile Assiniboin Artist." Ameri- 
can Indian Art 8(4) (1983) :54-63. 

-. "Commentary on Explaining the Course of Human Events by Betty J. 



Meggers." In Donald J. Ortner, ed.. How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural 
Odyssey, pp. 183-86. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 
1983. 

Fitzhugh, William W. [Introduction and Appendices] The Eskimo About 
Bering Strait, 3d ed., by Edward William Nelson. Smithsonian Classics in 
Anthropology reprint. 1983. 

. "Archaeological Surveys in the Strait of Belle Isle." In Archaeology 

in Newfoundland and Labrador: 1982, ed. Jane Sproull Thomson and 
Callum Thomson, pp. 118-32. Annual Report No. 3, Historic Resources 
Division, Government of Newfoundland and Labrador. 1983. 

Fitzhugh, William W., and Kaplan, Susan. "Art of the Bering Sea: Where 
Magic Ruled." National Geographic 163(2) :198-205. 

. "Inua: Spirit World of the Bering Sea Eskimo." Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Traveling Exhibition Service catalogue. 

"Life in the Qasgiq," The Alaska Journal 13(2):4-13. (Extracted from 



Inua catalogue, with color photos.) 

Fowler, Don D., and Jennings, Jesse D. "Great Basin Archaeology, an His- 
torical Overview." In Man and Environment in the Great Basin., ed. D. B. 
Madsen and J. F. O'Connell, Society for American Archaeology Papers 
no. 2(1982) :105-20. 

Fowler, Don D., Van Beek, Gus W., and Sanoja, Mario. "Clifford Evans, 
1920-1981." American Antiquity 47(3) :545-56. 1982. 

Frison, George C, and Stanford, Dennis. "The Agate Basin Components at 
the Agate Basin Site." In The Agate Basin Site. A Record of the Paleo- 
Indian Occupation of the Northwestern High Plains, ed. George C. Frison 
and Dennis Stanford, pp. 76-135. New York: Academic Press, 1982. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 455 



. "Summary and Conclusions." In The Agate Basin Site. A Record of 

the Paleo-Indian Occupation of the Northwestern High Plains, ed. George 
C. Prison and Dennis Stanford, pp. 361-70. New York: Academic Press, 
1982. 

Frohlich, Bruno. "The Bahrain Burial Mounds." Dilmon. Journal of the 
Bahrain Historical and Archaeological Society. Bahrain Government Press 
11(1983) :4-9. 

. "A Preliminary Report on the Human Remains from Bahrain Island 

Excavated by the Arab Expedition, 1978-1979." In Excavations of the Arab 
Expedition at Saar el-fisr, Bahrain, ed. M. Ibrahim. Ministry of Informa- 
tion, State of Bahrain (1982) :91-98. 

Frohlich, Bruno, and Ortner, Donald J. "Excavations of the Early Bronze Age 
Cemetery at Bab Edh-Dhra, Jordan, 1981. A Preliminary Report." Annual 
of the Department of Antiquities 26(1982) :249-67 and 491-500. Department 
of Antiquities, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordon. 

Glenn, James R. "DeLancey W. Gill: Photographs for the Bureau of American 
Ethnology." History of Photography 7(1) (1983) :7-22. 

. Register to the Papers of Neil Merton Judd, Smithsonian Institution 

National Anthropological Archives, 1982. 

Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. "Addenda and Corrigenda." Algonquian and Iro- 
quoian Linguistics 7(1982) :47-54. 

. "Synonymy" in the chapters "Havasupai," "Yavapai," "Mohave," 

"Maricopa," "Quechan," "Cocopa," "Pima and Papago: Introduction," 
"Tarahumara," "Karankawa," "Chiricahua Apache," "Mescalero Apache," 
"Jicarilla Apache," and "Western Apache." In Southwest, ed. Alfonso 
Ortiz. Handbook of North American Indians 10:23-24, 53-54, 70, 83-84, 
97, 111, 134-35, 288, 366, 416-18, 437-38, 459-60, 487-88. W. Sturtevant, 
gen. ed. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1983. 

'Technical Alphabet." In Southwest, ed. Alfonso Ortiz. Handbook of 



North American Indians 10:x-xi. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, 
D.C. : Smithsonian Institution, 1983. 

[linguistic ed.] Southwest, ed. Alfonso Ortiz. Handbook of North 



American Indians 10. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C: Smith- 
sonian Institution, 1983. 

Guagliardo, Mark F. "Tooth Crown Size Differences Between Age Groups: 
A Possible New Indicator of Stress in Skeletal Samples." American Journal 
of Physical Anthropology 54(4) (1982) :383-89. 

. "Craniofacial Structure, Aging and Dental Function: Their Relation- 
ships in Adult Human Skeletal Series." American Journal of Physical 
Anthropology 60(2) (1983) :202. 

Haynes, Gary. "Utilization of Megafaunal Carcasses." Abstracts of 5th 
Biennial Meeting, American Quaternary Association (1982) :98. 

. "Prey Bones and Predators: Potential Ecologic Information from 

Analyses of Bone Sites." Ossa 7(1980) :75-97. 

'Utilization and Skeletal Disturbances of North American Prey 



Carcasses." Arctic 35(2) (1982) :266-81. 

"Frequencies of Spiral and Green-Bone Fractures on Ungulate Limb 



Bones in Modern Surface Assemblages." American Antiquity 48(1)(1983): 
102-14. 

"On Bones: Ancient Men and Modern Myths," by L. R. Binford. 



North American Archaeologist 4(3) (1983) :245-54. 

"A Guide for Differentiating Mammalian Canivore Taxa Responsible 



for Gnaw Damage to Herbivore Limb Bones." Paleobiology 9(3) (1983): 
341-51. 
Hesse, Brian. "Slaughter Patterns and Domestication: the Beginnings of 
Pastoralism in Western Iran." Man (N.S.) 17(1982) :403-17. 



456 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



. "Archaeological Evidence for Camelid Exploitation in the Chilean 

Andes." Saugetierkundliche Mitteilungen 30(3) (1982) :201-11. 

Houchins, Chang-su "Sumisonian Mi-gungnip pangmulgwan sojang Han'guk 
minhwa" [The Smithsonian Collection of Korean Folk Paintings]. Misul 
Charyo 30:56-63. Seoul: National Museum Journal of Arts. 

. "Ilbaengnyon-jon Wasingt'on ui Han'guk yosong [The First Korean 

Women Abroad in Washington]. Yosong Tonga (Asian Women) (Decem- 
ber 1982) : 152-55. Seoul. 

Jolley, Catherine A. "The Passive in Plains Cree." Journal of the Linguistic 
Association of the Southwest IV. Special Issue: Native Languages of the 
Americas IV. 2(1981) :161-84. 

. "On the Plains Cree Passive: An Analysis of Syntactic and Lexical 

Rules." The Ohio State University Working Papers in Linguistics: Gram- 
matical Relations and Relational Grammar, no. 26. (1982) :l-33. 

. "The Reduction of kika to ka in Plains Cree." Algonquian and Iro- 



quoian Linguistics. 8(1983) :8-10. 

Kaeppler, Adrienne. "Polynesian Dance: With a Selection for Contemporary 
Performances." Hawaii: Alpha Delta Kappa, 1983. 

. "Genealogy and Disrespect: A Study of Symbolism in Hawaiian 

Images." RES 3(1982) :82-107. 

Kelley, Jennifer O., and Angel, J. Lawrence. "The Workers of Catoctin 
Furnace." Maryland Archaeology 19, no. 1 (March 1983). 

Ledergerber, Paulina. "Comparacion entre la Ceramica brunida Guangala (del 
Ecuador) y Nasca (del Peru)." Boletin de la Academia Nacional de Historia 
del Ecuador Vo. LXII (1980) :291-360. 

. "EI origen de mas de un cuarto de siglo de investigaciones sobre la 

cultura Valdivia." Boletin de la Academia Nacional de Historia del Ecuador 
(1983) :l-34. 

McGuire, Thomas R., and Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. "Synonymy" in the chap- 
ter "Walapai." In Southwest, ed. Alfonso Ortiz. Handbook of North Amer- 
ican Indians 10:36. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian 
Institution, 1983. 

Meggers, Betty J. "Explaining the Course of Human Events." In How Humans 
Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey, ed. Donald J. Ortner, pp. 163-83. Washing- 
ton, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Meggers, Betty J., and Clifford Evans. "Archaeology: South America." Hand- 
hook of Latin American Studies, no. 43:61-104. Austin: University of Texas 
Press, 1982. 

. "Lowland South America and the Antilles." In Ancient South Ameri- 
cans, ed. Jesse D. Jennings, pp. 287-335. San Francisco: W. H. Freeman, 
1983. 

Meltzer, David J. "The Antiquity of Man and the Development of American 
Archaeology." In Advances in Archaeological Method and Theory, ed. 
M. B. Schiffer. New York: Academic Press, 1983. 

Meltzer, David J., and Mead, Jim I. "The Timing of Late Pleistocene Mam- 
malian Extinctions." Quaternary Research 19(1983) :130-35. 

Meltzer, David J., and Sturtevant, William C. "The Holy Oak Shell Game: an 
Historic Archaeological Fraud." In Lulu Linear Punctated: Essays in Honor 
of George Irving Quimby, ed. R. C. Dunnell and D. K. Grayson. Anthro- 
pological Paper 72. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan, 1983. 

Merrill, William L. "God's Saviours in the Sierra Madre," Natural History 
(March 1983). 

Milanich, Jerald T. "True Confessions of an Archaeologist." Contract Ab- 
stracts and CRM AVchealogy 2(3(1982) :9-10. 

. "Licensing American Applied Archaeologists Is Here." Practicing 

Anthropology 4(3-4) (1982) :19-20. 

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 457 



Milton, N. M.; Collins, William; Chang, Sheng-Huei; and Schmidt, R. G. 

"Remote Detection of Metal Anomalies on Pilot Mountain, Randolph 

County, North Carolina." Economic Geology 78(1983) :605-17. 
Nagle, Christopher. "1981 Field Investigations at the Fleur de Lys Soapstone 

Quarry, Baie Verte, Newfoundland." In Archaeology in Newfoundland and 

Labrador — 2981, ed. J. S. Thomson and C. Thomson, pp. 102-29. Annual 

Report no. 2, Historic Resources Division, Government of Newfoundland 

and Labrador, St. John's, Newfoundland, 1982. 
Nagle, Christopher, and Wilcox, U. V. "Optical Mark Recognition Forms in 

Data Entry: Some Applications." Journal of Field Archaeology 9(1982:538- 

47. 
Ortner, Donald J. "The Skeletal Biology of an Early Bronze IB Charnel House 

at Bab edh-Dhra, Jordan. In Studies in the History and Archaeology of' 

Jordan I, ed. Adnan Hadidi, pp. 93-95. Amman, Jordan: Department of 

Antiquities, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, 1982. 

. "Bab edh-Dhr: City of the Dead." Jordan 7(1983) :12-15. 

. "Case Report No. 1." Paleopathology Newsletter, no. 42(1983) :10. 

. "Biocultural Interaction 4n Human Adaptation." In How Humans 

Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey, ed. D. J. Ortner, pp. 127-45. Washington, 

D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

ed. How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey. Washington, D.C: 



Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Pennington, Campbell W., and Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. "Synonymy" in the 
chapter "North Tepehuan." In Southwest, ed. Alfonso Ortiz. Handbook of 
North American Indians 10:313. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C: 
Smithsonian Institution, 1983. 

Potter, Stephen R. "The Past Beneath Our Feet." National Parks Magazine 
57(3-4) (1982) :12-15. 

Putschar, W. G. J., and Ortner, D. J. "Zur Palaeopathologie der Skelett- 
Missbildungen und-Dysplasien." Verhandlungen der Deutschen Cesellschaft 
fur Pathologie 66(1982) :147-50. 

Rollefson, Gary O., and Frohlich, Bruno. "A PPNB Burin Site on Jabal 
Uweinid, Eastern Jordan." The Annual of the Department of Antiquities. 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. 26(1982) :189-98. 

Schwarz, Shirley. "A Vulci Vase in the Getty Museum." In Greek Vases. 
Occasional Papers on Antiquities 1(1983) :121-34. 

. [translation from the German] Herakles: The Twelve Labors of the 

Hero in Ancient Art and Literature, by Frank Brommer. New Rochelle, 
N.Y. : Caratzas Brothers, 1983. 

Schmidt, Robert G. "Mineral Evaluation in Part of the Papago Indian Reser- 
vation, South Central Arizona, Using Digital Classification of Landsat 
Data." In Mineral Resource Potential and Related Studies of the Papago 
Indian Reservation, Southern Arizona, Chap. D9. Administrative Report 
prepared by the U.S. Geological Survey for the U.S. Bureau of Indian 
Affairs, 1982. 

. "Visit to the Meishan Iron Ore Mine." In Journal, People-to-People 

Economic Geology and Mining Delegation to the People's Republic of 
China, April 11-May 4, 1982, P. K. Sims, Delegation Leader. Spokane, 
People-to-People International (1982) :22-26. 

Selig, Ruth Osterweis. Anthro-Notes 4(3); 5(1); 5(2). Smithsonian Publica- 
tion for Teachers. 

. "Bones and Stones — or Sheep?" Anthro-Notes 5(1), Winter 1983. 

. "A New Approach to Teacher Training." Museum News 61(6), 

August 1983. 

Selig, Ruth Osterweis, and Bay, Ann. "Of Kayaks and Ulus: The Bering Sea 



458 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Eskimo Collection of Edward W. Nelson, The Man Who Collected Good- 

for-Nothing Things.' " Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 
Smith, Bruce D. "Explanation in Archaelogy." In Theory and Explanation in 

Archaeology, ed. Colin Renfrew, Michael J. Rowlands, and Barbara 

Segraves, pp. 73-82. New York: Academic Press, 1982. 
. Commentary on "Explaining the Course of Human Events" in Donald 

J. Ortner, ed.. How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey. Washington, 

D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

-. "Selectivity Determinations: A Continuum from Conservative to 



Confident." In Animals and Archaeology, ed. J. Clutton Brock and Caroline 
Grigson. Oxford: British Archaeological Reports, 1983. 

Stanford, Dennis. "Pleistocene Studies in Northeast China and the Rocky 
Mountains of Colorado: A Joint U.S. -China Research Program on New 
World Cultural Origins: In China Exchange News 11(1)(1983) :6-8. 

. "Pre-Clovis Occupations South of the Ice Sheets." In Early Man in 

the New World, ed. Richard Shutler, Jr. Sage Publications, Beverly Hills, 
1983. 

Stewart, T. Dale. "Background of American Forensic Anthropology." Criminal 
Justice Review 7(1) (1982) :4-7. 

. "Hrdlicka's Dream of an American Institute of Physical Anthropol- 
ogy." In Second Anthropological Congress at Ales Hrdlicka (held in Prague 
and Humpolec, September 3-7, 1979), ed. Vladimir V. Novotny, pp. 19-21. 
Universitas Carolina Pragensis, 1982. 

-. "Pioneer Contributions of Harris Hawthorne Wilder, Ph.D., to Foren- 



sic Sciences." Journal of Forensic Sciences 27(4)(1982) :754-62. 
. "Helmut de Terra, 1900-1981." American Antiquity 47(4) (1982) :793- 



94. 

"William Levi Straus, Jr., 1900-1981." American Journal of Physical 



Anthropology 59(4) (1982) :359-60. 

. "Where Is Cope's Face?" Earth Sciences History 2(1) (1983) :76-77. 

. "Scaphocephaly in Blacks; a Variant Form of Pathologic Head De- 



formity." Bulletins et Memoires de Societe d' Anthropologic de Paris 9 (ser 

XIII) (1982) :267-79. 
Sturtevant, William C. "History of Anthropology in the Handbook of North 

American Indians." History of Anthropology Newsletter 9(2) (1982) :13-15. 
. "Seneca Masks." In The Power of Symbols: Mask and Masquerade 

in the Americas, ed. N. R. Crumrine and M. Halpin. Vancouver: University 

of Brit. Col. Press, 1983. 
Ubelaker, Douglas H. "Human Skeletal Remains from the Reedy Creek Site, 

44Ha22, Virginia. Quarterly Bulletin of the Archaelogical Society of 

Virginia 37, no. 4:204-5. 
. "The Development of American Paleopathology." Chap. 14 in A His- 
tory of American Physical Anthropology, 1930-1980, ed. F. Spencer. New 

York: Academic Press, Inc. 
Valentour, Catharine. "Conservation." In Quseir al-Qadim 1980: Preliminary 

Report by Donald S. Whitcomb and Janet H. Johnson, pp. 385-89. Malibu: 

Undena, 1982. 
Van Beek, Gus W. "Digging up Tell Jemmeh." Archaeology 36(1) (1983) :12- 

19. 
. "A Population Estimate for Marib: A Contemporary Tell Village in 

North Yemen." Bulletin of the American School of Oriental Research 268 

(1983). 
Viola, Herman J. "Inman, McKenney, and the Indian Gallery." Indians of 

North America: Paintings by Henry Inman. Buffalo Bill Historical Center, 

1983. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 459 



. [Introduction] Texas Ranchman: The Memoirs of John A. Loomis. 

Chadron, Nebraska: The Fur Press, 1982. 

Von Endt, D. W., and Ortner, D. J. "Amino Acid Analysis of Bone from a 
Possible Case of Prehistoric Iron Deficiency Anemia." American Journal of 
Physical Anthropology 59(1982) :377-85. 

Whitcomb, Donald. "Islamic Glass from Quseir al-Qadim, Egypt/' Journal of 
Class Studies 25(1983) :101--8. 

. "Quseir al-Qadim and Southwest Arabia." Proceedings of the Sem- 
inar for Arabian Studies, 1982. 

Department of Botany 

Baum, Vicki M.; Reveal, J. L.; and Nowicke, J. W. "Pulchranthus (Acantha- 

ceae), a New Genus from Northern South America." Systematic Botany 

8(1983) :211-20. 
Bohlmann, F.; Adler, A.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "A 

Dimeric Germacranolide and Other Sesquiterpene Lactones from Mikania 

Species." Phytochemistry 20(6) (1982) :1349-55. 
Bohlmann, F.; Ahmed, M.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. 

"Dimeric Sesquiterpene Lactones and Kolavane Derivatives from Cochna- 

tia paniculata." Phytochemistry 22(1) (1983) :191-95. 
Bohlmann, F.; Ahmed, M.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Acetylenic Com- 
pounds from Bidens graveolene." Phytochemistry 22(5)(1983) :1281-83. 
Bohlmann, F.; Ahmed, M.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. "Melampolides 

from Enhydra fluctuans var. fluctuans." Phytochemistry 21(7)(1982) :1675- 

78. 
Bohlmann, F.; Ates (Goren), N.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson H. 

"Types of Sesquiterpenes from Artemisia douglasiana." Phytochemistry 

21(11) (1982) :2691-97. 
Bohlmann, F.; Borthakur, N.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Germacrane 

and Eudesmane Derivatives from Galea reticulata." Phytochemistry 21(7) 

(1982) :1793-94. 
Bohlmann, F.; Borthakur, N.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. "Eudesmane 

Derivatives from Epaltes hrasiliensis." Phytochemistry 21(7) (1982) :1795-97. 
Bohlmann, F.; Grenz, M.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Four 

Heliangolides and Other Sesquiterpenes from Brasilia sickii." Phytochemis- 
try 22(5) (1983) :1213-18. 
Bohlmann, F.; Gupta, R. K.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. 

"Four Oplopanone and Bisabolene Derivatives from Rugelia nudicaulis." 

Phytochemistry 21(7) (1982) :1665-68. 
. "Furanoheliangolides and Farnesol Derivatives from Galea hispida." 

Phytochemistry 21(12) (1982) :2899-2903. 
Bohlmann, F.; Gupta, R. K.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "New Cadinene 

Derivatives from Heterotheca latifolia." Phytochemistry 21(12) (1982) :2982- 

84. 
. "Three Furanoheliangolides from Galea villosa." Phytochemistry 21 

(10) (1982) .-2593-95. 

"Two Furanoheliangolides from Galea angusta." Phytochemistry 21 



(8)(1982):2117-18. 
Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Schuster, A.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. 

"New Melampolides, Kaurene Derivatives and Other Constituents from 

Ichthyothere species." Phytochemistry 21(9)(1982) :2317-27. 
Bohlmann, F.; Ludwig, G. W.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. 

"A Daucanolide and Further Farnesene Derivatives from Ageratum fasti- 

giatum." Phytochemistry 22(4) (1983) :983-86. 
Bohlmann, F.; Mathur, R.; Jakupovic, J.; Gupta, R. K.; King, R. M. and 



460 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Robinson, H. "Furanoheliangolides and Other Compounds from Galea hy- 

menolepis." Phytochemistry 21(8)(1982) :2045-48. 
Bohlmann, F.; Singh, P.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. 

"Eudesmanolides from Dimerostemma brasilianum." Phytochemistry 21(6) 

1343-47. 
Bohlmann, P.; Singh, P.; Zdero, C; Ruhe, A.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. 

"Furanoheliangolides from Two Eremanthus Species and from Chresta 

sphaerocephala." Phytochemistry 21(7)(1982) :1669-73. 
Bohlmann, F.; Tsankova, E.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. 

"Dimeric Chromenes and Mixed Dimers of a Chromene with Euparin from 

Encelia canescens." Phytochemistry 22(2) :557-60. 
Bohlmann, F.; Wallmeyer, M.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Germacranol- 

ides from Piptolepis leptospermoides." Phytochemistry 21(6)(1982) :1439-41. 
Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Eudesmanolides 

and Kaurene Derivatives from Wedelia hookeriana." Phytochemistry 21(9) 

(1982) :2329-33. 
. "New Germacranolides and Other Constituents of Trichogoniopsis 

morii." Phytochemistry 21(8)(1982) :2035-40. 

'Sesquiterpenes Guaianolides and Diterpenes from Stevia myria- 



denia." Phytochemistry 21 (8) (1982) :2021-25. 

Bohlmann, F. ; Zdero, C; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Sesquiterpene 
Lactones from Syncretocarpus sericeus." Phytochemistry 22(5) :1288-90. 

. "A Tetracyclic Sesquiterpene, Further Isocedrene and Guaiene De- 
rivatives from Jungia Stuehelii." Phytochemistry 22(5)(1983) :1201-6. 

"Thymol Derivatives from Porophyllum riedelii." Phytochemistry 22 



(4)(1983):1053-56. 

"Unusual Phenylpropanoid Glycosides from Paranephelius uniflorus.' 



Phytochemistry 22(6) (1983) :1485-88. 
Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. "Two New Eudes- 

mane Cinnamates from Verhesina sordescens." Phytochemistry 21(7) (1982): 

1663-64. 
Burns-Balogh, P., and Robinson, H. "Evolution and Phylogeny of the Pelexia 

Alliance (Orchidaceae: Spiranthoideae: Spiranthinae)." Systematic Botany 

8(3) (1983) :263-68. 
Cuatrecasas, J. "Miscellaneous Notes on Neotropical Flora, XIV." Phytologia 

52(3) (1982) :157-59. 
. "Miscellaneous Notes on Neotropical Flora, XV. New taxa in the 

Astereae." Phytologia 52(3) (1982) :166-77. 

-. "Studies in Neotropical Senecioneae III. New taxa in Senecio, Penta- 



calia and Cynoxys." Phytologia 52(3) (1982) :159-66. 
Faden, R. B., and Hafliger, E. "Commelinaceae." In Monocot Weeds 3 by 

E. Hafliger, pp. 100-111. Basel, Switzerland: Ceiba-Geigy Ltd., 1982. 
Fosberg, F. R. "The Human Factor in the Biogeography of Oceanic Islands." 

Conpte Rendu des Seances de la Societe de Biogeographie 59(1983) :147-90. 
Fosberg, F. R., and Dassanayke, M. D., eds. A Revised Handbook to the 

Flora of Ceylon, vol. IV. New Delhi, India: Amerind Publishing Co. Pvt. 

Ltd., 1983. 
Fosberg, F. R., and Sachet, M.-H. "Notes on Sphenomeris chinensis (L.) 

Maxon ex Kramer." Micronesica 18(1982) :129-33. 
Fosberg, F. R.; Sachet, M.-H.; and Oliver, R. "Geographic Checklist of Micro- 

nesian Pteridophyta and Gemnospermae." Micronesica 12(1982) :23-82. 
Goldberg, A., and Smith, L. B. "Chave Para As Familias Espermatofiticas do 

Brasil." Flora llustrada Catarinense (1975) :l-204, pl. 1-69. 

Hale, Mason E. The Biology of Lichens. 3d ed. London: Edward Arnold, Ltd., 
1983. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 461 



. "A New Species of Parmelia (Lichenes) with Protecetraric Acid." 

Mycotaxon 16(1) (1982) :162-64. 

Harriman, N. A., and Robinson, H. "A New Species of Viguiera (Asteraceae: 
Heliantheae) from Mexico." Wrightia 7(3) (1983) :229-31. 

King, R. M., and Robinson, H. "Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). 
CCXVI. New Combinations for South American Species." Phytologia 53 
(1983) :392. 

Krai, R., and Smith, L. B. "Xyridaceae Venezuelanae, I." Phytologia 53(6) 
(1983) :432-44. 

Little, Elbert L., Jr. Common Fuelwood Crops: A Handbook for Their Identi- 
fication. Morgantown, W.Va. : Communi-Tech Associates, 1983. 

Littler, M. M.; Littler, D. S.; and Taylor, P. R. "Evolutionary Strategies in a 
Tropical Barrier Reef System: Functional-Form Groups of Marine Macro- 
algae." Journal of Phycology 19(1983) :223-31. 

Littler, M. M.; Martz, D. R.; and Littler, D. S. "Effects of Recurrent Sand 
Deposition on Rocky Intertidal Organisms: Importance of Substrate Het- 
erogeneity in a Fluctuating Environment." Marine Ecology Progress Series 
11(1983) :129-39. 

Littler, M. M., and Round, F. E. "Ecology of Algae: Introduction to Selected 
Papers." In Selected Papers in Phycology II, ed. J. R. Rosowski and B. C. 
Parker, pp. 392-93. Lawrence, Kansas: Phycological Society of America, 
1982. 

Nicolson, Dan H. "Translation of Engler's Classification of Araceae with 
Updating." Aroideana 5(1983) :57-88. 

Nicolson, Dan H., and Norris, James N. "Ordinal Orthography: Nemalionales 
vs. Nemaliales (Rhodophyta)." Taxon 32(2) (1983) :288-92. 

Norris, James N., and Kugrens, Paul. "Marine Rhodophyceae: Introduction 
and Bibliography." In Selected Papers in Phycology, II, ed. James R. 
Rosowski and Bruce C. Parker, pp. 663-70. Lawrence, Kansas: Phycological 
Society of America, 1982. 

Nowicke, Joan W., and Skvarla, John J. "Pollen Morphology and the Rela- 
tionships of the Corynocarpaceae." Taxon 32(1983) :176-83. 

Panigrahi, G., and Nicholson, Dan H. "Indication of the Nomenclatural Type 
(Art. 37.1)." Taxon 32(1983) :120-23. 

Pike, L. H., and Hale, M. E. "Three New Species of Hypogymnia from West- 
ern North America (Lichenes: Hypogymniaceae)." Mycotaxon 16(1) (1982): 
157-61. 

Read, R. W. "Artists and Botanists." Journal of the Bromeliad Society 33(1) 
(1983) :13-16. 

. "Orator Fuller Cook: His Itinerary." Principes 27(2) (1983) :83-84. 

Read, R. W., and Desautels, P. E. "CITES: Orchids as a Family Endangered 
by Legislation?" American Orchid Society Bulletin 51(1)(1983) :15-21. 

Read, R. W., and Smith, L. B. "Guzmania desautelsii A Name for a Formerly 
Misplaced Species." Journal of the Bromeliad Society 33(1983) :17-18. 

Roane, M. K., and Fosberg, F. R. "A New Pyrenomycete Associated with 
Metrosideros collina Subspecies polymorpha (Myrtaceae)." Mycologia 75 
(1983) :163-66. 

Robinson, H. "Dolichopodidae." In Aquatic Biota of Mexico, Central America 
and the West Indies, ed. S. H. Hurlbert and A. Villalobos-Figueroas, pp. 
462-63. San Diego, Calif.: San Diego State University, 1982. 

. "Five New Species of Lynchnophora from Bahia, Brasil (Vernonieae: 

Asteraceae)." Phytologia 53(1983) :369-84. 

-. "A Generic Review of the Tribe Liabeae (Asteraceae)." Smithsonian 



Contributions to Botany, no. 54. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1983. 



462 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



. "New Species of Chresta from Bahia, Brasil (Vernonieae: Astera- 

ceae)." Phytologia 53(1983) :385-87. 

-. "Senecio L. — Pentacalia Cass." In "More Additions to the Flora of 



Jamaica," by G. R. Proctor. Journal to the Arnold Arboretum 63(3) (1982): 
308-13. 

"Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXX. A New Species of 



Ichthyothere from Cayenne." Phytologia 53(1983) :388-91. 

"Three New Species of Vernonia from South America (Vernonieae: 



Asteraceae)." Phytologia 53(1983) :393-400. 
Robinson, H., and Burns-Balough, P. "Evidence for a Primitively Epiphytic 

Habit in Orchidaceae." Systematic Botany 7(4) (1982) :353-58. 
Sachet, Marie-Helene, and Lemaitre, Yves. "Plantes de I'lle de Maupiti, 

Recoltees Par Jean Raynal." Bulletin de la Societe des ttudes Oceaniennes 

18(1983) :1336-40. 
Seaman, F. C, and Funk, V. A. "Cladistic Analysis of Complex Natural 

Products: Developing Transformation Series from Sesquiterpene Lactone 

Data. Tflxon 32(1983) :l-27. 
Seapy, R. R., and Littler, M. M. "Population and Species Diversity Fluctua- 
tions in a Rocky Intertidal Community Relative to Severe Aerial Exposure 

and Sediment Burial." Marine Biology 71(1982) :87-96. 
Sivadasan, M., and Nicolson, Dan H. "A Revision of Theriophonum (Ara- 

ceae)." Kew Bulletin 37(1982) :277-90. 
Skog, L. E. "Gesneriaceae Chromosome Numbers VII. 1982 Supplement, with 

Additions and Corrections to Parts I-VI." Crosswords 6(2) (1982) :7-9. 
. "New Gesneriaceae from Peru and Ecuador." Selbyana 7(1) (1982): 

94-99. 
. "Proposal to Conserve the Spelling Jankaea." Taxon 32(3) (1983): 



491-92. 
Smith, L. B. "A New Pitcairnia from Venezuela." Phytologia 53(3)(1983): 

177-78. 
Smith, L. B., and Read, R. W. "Bromeliaceae." In "Contributions a la Flora 

de la Sierra de Perija, Venezuela, II," by Stephen S. Tillett and Paul Berry. 

Ernstia 17(1983) :9-10. 

. "Notes on Bromeliaceae, XLI." Phytologia 52(1) (1983) :49-60. 

Smith, L. B., and Wasshausen, D. C. "Notes on Begoniaceae, I." Phytologia 

52(7) (1983) :441-51. 

. "Notes on Begoniaceae, II." Phytologia 53(4) (1983) :297-301. 

Smith, L. B.; Wasshausen, D. C; and Klein, R. M. "Gramineas, pt. 2." Flora 

Ilustrada Catarinense pt. 1, fasc. GRAM. Pt. 1(1982) :441-906, pi. 94-183. 
. "Gramineas, pt. 3." Flora Ilustrada Catarinense pt. 1, fasc. GRAM. Pt. 

1(1982) :907-1407, pi. 184-264. 
Soderstrom, T. R. "Chusquea and Otatea," In "Graminaeae," by R. McVaugh, 

Flora Novo-Caliciana, vol. 14. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press, 

1983. 
Soderstrom, T. R., and Young, S. M. "A Guide to Collecting Bamboos." 

Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 70(1983) :128-36. 
Stafleu, F. A., and Cowan, R. S. Taxonomic Literature Selective Guide to 

Botanical Publications and Collections with Dates, Commentaries and 

Types, ed. 2; vol. 4, P-Sak, i-xiv, 1-1214. Utrecht, The Netherlands: Bohn, 

Scheltema and Holkema, 1983. 
Steyermark, J. A., and Smith, L. B. "Billbergia rosea and B. venezuelana." 

Journal of the Bromeliad Society 33(1983) :4-6. 
Taylor, P. R., and Littler, M. M. "The Roles of Compensatory Mortality, 

Physical Disturbance, and Substrate Retention in the Development and 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 463 



Organization of a Sand-Influenced, Rocky-Intertidal Community." Ecology 
63(1982) :135-46. 

Voss, E. G.; Burdet, H. M.; Chaloner, W. C; Demoulin, V.; Hiepko, P.; 
McNeill, J.; Meikle, D.; Nicolson, D. H.; Rollins, R. C; Silva, P.; Greuter, 
W., eds. "International Code of Botanical Nomenclature." Regnum Vege- 
tabile 111(1983) :i-xv, 1-472. 

Wasshausen, Dieter C. "New Species of Justicia (Acanthaceae) from Vene- 
zuela." Phytologia 52(2) (1982) :95-98. 

Weber, W., and Smith, L. B. "A New Combination in Mezobromelia." Journal 
of the Bromeliad Society 33(3) (1983) :121-22. 

Wurdack, J. J. "Certamen Melastomataceis XXXV." Phytologia 52(1) (1982): 
61-69. 

. "Certamen Melastomataceis XXXVI." Phytologia 53(2) (1983) :121-37. 

. "Sex and Size in Arisaema." Bulletin of the American Rock Garden 

Society 41(1983) :9-10. 

-. "Some Native Clematis." Bulletin of the American Rock Garden 



Society 41(1983) :125-29. 
Wurdack, J. J., and Krai, R. "The Genera of Melastomataceae in the South- 
eastern United States." Journal of the Arnold Arboretum 63(1982) :429-39. 

Department of Entomology 

Botosaneanu, L., and Flint, Oliver S., Jr. "On Some Trichoptera from North- 
ern Venezuela and Ecuador (Insecta)." Beaufortia 32(1982) :13-26. 
Burns, John M. "Biomodels." Nature 301(1983) :355. 

. "Superspecies Atrytonopsis ovinia (A. ovinia A. ewardsi) and the 

Nonadaptive Nature of Interspecific Genitalic Differences (Lepidoptera: 
Hesperiidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 
85(1983) :335-58. 

"Queen of the Carolina (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae: Danainae: 



Danaus gilippus)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washing- 
ton 85(1983) :388-96. 

"Biomodels." Bulletin of the Entomological Society of America 29(2) 



(1983) :37. 
Clarke, J. F. Gates. "A New Genus and Two New Species of Oecophoridae 

from Colombia (Lepidoptera). Journal of Research on Lepidoptera 20(1) 

(1982) :46-50, figs. 1-6. 
Davis, D. R. Check List of the Lepidoptera of America North of Mexico. 

(Co-editor with R. W. Hodges, T. Dominick, D. C. Ferguson, J. G. Francle- 

mont, E. G. Munroe, and J. A. Powell). London: E. W. Classey Ltd. and 

The Wedge Entomological Research Foundation. 
Duckworth, W. Donald, and Eichlin, Thomas D. "Revision of the Clearwing 

Moth Genus Osminia (Lepidoptera: Sesiidae)." Smithsonian Contributions 

to Zoology, no. 361. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 
Erwin, Terry L. Tropical Forest: "Their Richness in Coleoptera and Other 

Arthropod Species." Coleopterists Bulletin 36(1) (1982) :74-75. 
. "Tropical Forest Canopies, the Last Biotic Frontier." Bulletin of the 

Entomological Society of America 29(1) (1982) :14-19. 
. "Baron Maximilien de Chaudoir: Chaudoir's studies of the taxa 



Agrina and Brachinitae (Coleoptera: Carabidae)." Coleopterists Bulletin 
36(3) (1982) :501-11. 

Argra, arboreal beetles of Neotropical forests: famula and formicaria 



groups systematics (Carabidae). Systematic Entomology 8(1982) :263-92. 
Erwin, Terry L., and Ball, G. E. "The Baron Maximilien de Chaudoir: Inheri- 
tance, associates, travels, work, and legacy." Coleopterists Bulletin 36(3) 
(1982):501-11. 



464 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Erwin, Terry L., and Dritschilo, W. "Responses in Abundance and Diversity 
of Cornfield Carabid Communities to Differences in Farm Practices." 

Flint, Oliver S., Jr. "Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XXX: Larvae of the 
Genera of South American Limnephilidae (Trichoptera)." Smithsonian Con- 
tributions to Zoology, no. 355. Washington, D.C., Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1982. 

. "Trichoptera of the Area Platense." Biologia Acuatica, 2(1982) -.1-70. 

. "Nothiochauliodes penai, a New Genus and Species of Megaloptera 

from Chile (Neuroptera : Corydalidae)." Entomological News 94(1983): 
15-17. 

"Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XXXIII: New Species from Aus- 



tral South America (Trichoptera)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, 
no. 377. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Flint, Oliver S., Jr., and Bueno-Soria, J. "Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, 
XXXII: The Immature Stages of Macronema variipenne Flint & Bueno, with 
the Division of Macronema by the Resurrection of Macrostemum (Trichop- 
tera: Hydropsychidae). Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washing- 
ton 95(1982) :358-70. 

Flint, Oliver S., Jr., and Butler, Walter L. "Hydropsyche brunneipennis, New 
Species, a Member of the Scalaris Group, from the Potomac River Near 
Washington, D.C. (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae)." Proceedings of the 
Entomological Society of Washington 85(1983) :205-ll. 

Froeschner, Richard C. "Notes on Distribution of Some Latin American 
Cotton-stainers (Dysdercus: Pyrrhocoridae: Hemiptera) and Remarks on 
the Biology of Dysdercus urbahni Schmidt." Proceedings of the Biological 
Society of Washington 95(1982) :371-76. 

. "Oeciacus vicarius Horvath, 1912 (Insecta: Hemiptera): Proposed 

Conservation Under the Plenary Powers. Z. N. (S.)." Bulletin of the Inter- 
national Commission on Zoological Nomenclature, 40(1983) :65-66. 

Gerling, Dan; Hurd, Paul D., Jr.; and Hefetz, Abraham. "Comparative Be- 
havioral Biology of Two Middle East Species of Carpenter Bees (Xylcopa 
Latreille) Hymenoptera: Apoidea). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, 
no. 369. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Hurd, Paul D., Jr., and Linsley, E. G. "Philip Hunter Timberlake (1883- 
1981)." Pan-Pacific Entomologist 58(1983) :2-18. 

Krombein, Karl V. "The Smithsonian Insect Project in Sri Lanka, 1969- 
1975." Spolia Zeylanica 35(1981) :119-35. 

. "Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, IX: A Monograph of the 

Tiphiidae (Hymenoptera: Vespoidea)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zool- 
ogy, no. 374. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

-. "Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, VII: A Preliminary 



Analysis of Affinities and Derivation of the Wasp Fauna of Sri Lanka 
(Hymenoptera: Aculeata). Entomologia Generalis 8(1983) :43-50. 

"Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XI: A Monograph of the 



Amiseginae and Loboscelidiinae (Hymenoptera: Chrysididae)." Smithsonian 
Contributions to Zoology, no. 376. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Press, 1982. 

"Three New Egg Parasites of South African Walking Sticks (Hy- 



menoptera: Chrysididae, Amiseginae)." Journal of the Entomological So- 
ciety of Southern Africa 46(1983) :139-46. 

Lee, P.-W.; Yanigahara, R.; Amyx, H. L.; Gibbs, C J., Jr.; Gajdusek, D. C; 
and Traub, R. [Letter to Editor concerning Korean hemorrhagic fever in- 
fection in rodent] New^England Journal of Medicine 307(10) :624-25. 

Mathis, Wayne N. "Description of a New Species of Nocticanace Malloch 
(Diptera: Canacidae) from Sri Lanka, with Notes on Two Related Species." 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 465 



Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, 84(3) (1982): 
421-25. 

"Ephydridae." In Aquatic Biota of Mexico, Central America and the 



West Indies, ed. S. H. Hurlbert and A. Villalobos-Figueroa, pp. 469-72. 
San Diej!;o, Calif.: University of San Diego Press, 1982. 

Mathis, Wayne N., and Freidberg, Amnon. "New Beach Flies of the Genus 
Xanthocanace Handel with a Review of the Species from the Western 
Palaearctic (Diptera: Canacidae)." Memoirs of the Entomological Society of 
Washington 10(1982) :97-104. 

Otis, G. W.; McGinley, R. J.; Garling, L.; and Malaret, L. "Biology and Sys- 
tematics of the Bee Genus Crawfordapis (Colletidae, Diphaglossinae)." 
Psyche 89(3-4) (1982-1983) :279-96. 

Robbins, Robert K. "How Many Butterfly Species? . . ." News of the Lepi- 
dopterist's Society (3)(1982) :40-41. 

Robbins, Robert K., and Aiello, Annette. "Foodplant and Oviposition Records 
for Panamanian Lycaenidae and Riodinidae." Journal of the Lepidopterists' 
Society 36(2) (1982) :65-75. 

Seibert, Henri; Spangler, Paul J.; and Stehr, Frederick W. [Obituary.] William 
Carl Stehr. Bulletin Entomological Society of America 28(4) (1983) :380. 

Spangler, Paul J. "Coleoptera." In Aquatic Biota of Mexico, Central America, 
and the West Indies, ed. S. H. Hurlbert and A. Villalobos-Figueroa, pp. 
328-97. October 1982. 

Spangler, Paul J., and Santiago, Silvia. "A New Species of Aquatic Beetle, 
Disersus uncus, from Costa Rica (Coleoptera; Elmidae: Larinae). Special 
Issue to the Memory of Retirement of Emeritus Professor Michio Chujo. 
December (1982) :17-20. 

Traub, R. "Medical Importance of the Ceratophyllidae." In The Rothschild 
Collection of Fleas. The Ceratophyllidae : Key to the Genera and Host Rela- 
tionships. With Notes on Evolution, Zoogeography and Medical Impor- 
tance, Traub, R., Rothschild, M., and Haddow, J. F., pp. 202-28, refs. Cam- 
bridge and London: Cambridge University Press/ Academic Press, 1983. 

Department of Invertebrate Zoology 

Barnard, J. L., and Barnard, C. M. "Revision of Foxiphalus and Eobrolgus 
(Crustacea: Amphipoda: Phoxocephalidae) from American Oceans." Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 372. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian 
Institution Press, 1982. 

. "Biogeographic Microcosms of World Freshwater Amphipoda (Crus- 
tacea)." Archivium Hydrobiologium Polonensis 29(1983) :255-73. 

Barnard, J. L., and Drummond, M. M. "Redescription of Exoediceros fossor 
(Stimpson, 1856) an Australian Marine Fossorial Amphipod." Proceedings 
of the Biological Society of Washington 95(1982) :610-20. 

. "Gammaridean Amphipoda of Australia, Part 5. The Haustoriods." 

Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 360. Washington, D.C. : Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1982. 

"Discovery of Cheirocratus (Crustacea: Amphipoda) on Australian 



Shores." Proceedings of the Royal Society of Victoria 94(1982) :107-20. 

-. "Warreyus, a New Genus of Exoedicerotidae (Crustacea, Amphipoda) 



Based on Exoediceros maculosus Sheard (1936)." Proceedings of the Royal 
Society of Victoria 95(1983) :65-75. 

Barnard, J. L., and Karaman, G. S. "Australia as a Major Evolutionary Cen- 
ter for Amphipoda (Crustacea)." The Australian Museum, Memoir 18 
(1983):45-61. 

Bayer, Frederick M. "Octocoral Workshop — Summary of Activities." Bulletin 
of Marine Science 32(4) (1982) :952-54. 



466 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Black, J. J.; Evans, E. D.; Harshbarger, J. C; and Zeigel, R. F. "Epizootic 
Neoplasms in Fish from a Lake Polluted by Copper Mining Wastes." 
Journal of the National Cancer Institute 69(4) (1982) :915-26. 

Bowman, Thomas E., and Franz, Richard. "Anopsilana Crenata, a New Trog- 
lobitic Cirolanid Isopod from Grand Cayman Island, Caribbean Sea." Pro- 
ceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 95(3)(1982) :522-29. 

Cairns, S. D. "Antarctic and Subantarctic Stylasterina." Antarctic Research 
Series 38(1983) :61-164. 

. "A Generic Revision of the Stylasterina. Part I. Description of the 

Genera." Bulletin of Marine Science 33(2) (1983) ;427-508. 

"Pseudocrypthelia, a New Genus of Stylasterine Coral from the Indo- 



nesian Region." Beaufortia 33(3)(1983) :5 pp. 

-. [Book review] "A Field Guide to the Coral Reefs of the Caribbean 



and Florida." Current 4(2)(1982) :21. 

Cairns, S. D., and Stanley, G. D. "Ahermatypic Coral Banks: Living and 
Fossil Counterparts." Proceedings of the Fourth International Coral Reef 
Symposium 2(1982) :611-18. 

Camp, David K., and Manning, Raymond B. "Five New Species of Nan- 
nosquilla from the Northwestern Atlantic (Crustacea: Stomatopoda: Nan- 
nosquillidae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 368. Washing- 
ton, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Chace, F. A., Jr. "The Caridean Shrimps (Crustacea: Decapoda) of the Alba- 
tross Philippine Expedition, 1907-10, Part 1 : Family Stylodactylidae." 
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 381. Washington, D.C. : Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1983. 

. "The Atya-like Shrimps of the Indo-Pacific Region (Decapoda: Atyi- 

dae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 384. Washington, D.C: 
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Cohen, Anne C. "Capture, Rearing and Postembryonic Development of the 
Myodocopid Ostracode, Skogsbergia lerneri, from a Caribbean Coral Reef 
off Belize and from the Bahamas." Journal of Crustacean Biology 3(2) 
(1983) :235-56. 

Cressey, R. F. "Branchiura" In Aquatic Biota of Mexico, Central America, and 
the West Indies, ed. Hurlbert and Villalobos-Figueroa, pp. 196-7. 1982. 

. "Parasitic Crustaceans in the National Museum of Natural History, 

Smithsonian Institution." In A Guide to the Parasite Collections of the 
World, ed. J. R. Lichtenfels and M. H. Prichard, pp. 1-79. Special Publ. 
American Society of Parasitologists, 1982. 

"Crustaceans as Parasites of other Organisms." In The Biology of 



Crustacea, ed. A. Provenzano, pp. 259-73. Academic Press, 1983. 

Cressey, R. F., and Schotte, M. "Three New Species of Colobomatus (Cope- 
poda) : Philichthydae) Parasitic in the Mandibular Canals of Haemulid 
Fishes." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 96(2) (1983): 
189-201. 

DeSaint Laurent, Michele, and Manning, Raymond B. "Calliax punica, Espece 
Nouvelle de Callianassidae (Crustacea, Decapoda) des Eaux Mediterrane- 
enes." Quaderni del Laboratorio de Tecnologia della Pesa 3(2-5) (1982) : 
211-24. 

Downey, Maureen E. "Evoplosoma virgo, a New Goniasterid Starfish (Echino- 
dermata: Asteroidea) from the Gulf of Mexico." Proceedings of the Bio- 
logical Society of Washington 95(4) (1982) :772-73. 

Factor, Jan R.; Van Dover, Cindy L.; and Williams, Austin B. "Development 
of the Mouth Parts and Setae of the Hydrothermal Vent Crab Bythograea." 
American Zoologist 22(4) (1983) :874, Abstract 159. 

Fauchald, Kristian. "Revision of Onuphis, Nothria, and Paradiopatra (Poly- 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 467 



chaeta: Onuphidae). Based upon Type Material." Smithsonian Contribu- 
tions to Zoology, no. 336. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 
1982. 

"A Euchinid Polychaete from a White Smoker." Proceedings of the 



Biological Society of Washington 95(4)(1982) :781-87. 

"Description of Moorenuphis jonesi, a New Species of Onuphid Poly- 



chaete from Shallow Water in Bermuda, with Comments on Variability and 
Population Ecology." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 
95(4) (1982) :807-25. 

Froglia, Carlo, and Manning, Raymond B. "Notes on Liocarcinus pusillus 
(Leach) and Related Species." Quaderni del Lahoratorio di Tecnologia della 
Pesca 3(2-5) (1982) :257-66. 

Garcia, Renato C, and Manning, Raymond B. "Four New Species of Stomato- 
pod Crustaceans from the Philippines." Proceedings of the Biological So- 
ciety of Washington 95(3)(1982) :537-44. 

Giles, Elizabeth, and Gosliner, Terrence, M. "Primary Type Specimens of 
Marine Mollusca (excluding Cephalopoda) in the South African Museum." 
Annals of the South African Museum 92(1) (1983) :l-52. 

Gosliner, Terrence M. "A New Record of the Nudibranch Gastropod Polycera 
hedgpethi Marcus, from the Indian Ocean of South Africa." Journal of 
Molluscan Studies 48:30-35. 

Harshbarger, J. C. "Histopathology of Neoplasms in Fish Collected from 
Polluted Habitats." 113th Annual Meeting of the American Fisheries So- 
ciety, August 16-20, 1983, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee. 

Harshbarger, J. C, and Gibson, D. L. "Canglioneuroblastoma in a Trematode, 
Otodistomum plunketi Fyfe, 1953." Proceedings of the lllrd International 
Colloquium on Invertebrate Pathology and the IVth Annual Meeting of the 
Society for Invertebrate Pathology, pp. 280-85. Brighton, England, Septem- 
ber 5-10, 1982. 

Harshbarger, J. C; Baumann, P. C; Parland, W. K.; Cullen, L. J.; Calabrese, 
M. J.; and Spero, P. M. [Abstract] "Epidermal Hepatocellular, and Chol- 
angiocellular Carcinomas in Brown Bullheads, Ictalurus nebulosus, from 
Industrially Polluted Black River, Ohio." Second International Symposium 
on Responses of Marine Animals to Pollutants. Woods Hole Oceanographic 
Institution, Woods Hole, Mass., April 27-29, 1983. 

. [Abstract] "Epizootic Neoplasms in a Brown Bullhead, Ictalurus 

nebulosus. Population from a Black River, Ohio Site Polluted with Polynu- 
clear Aromatic Hydrocarbons." Seventy-fourth Annual Meeting of the 
American Association for Cancer Research, San Diego, Calif., May 25-28, 
1983. 

Higgins, Robert P. "The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Cay, 
Belize, II. Kinorhyncha." Smithsonian Contributions to Marine Sciences, 
no. 18. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

. "Three New Species of Kinorhyncha from Bermuda." Transactions of 

the American Microscopical Society 104(1982) :305-16. 

"Kinorhyncha," ed. Sybil P. Parker. In Encyclopedia of Science and 



Technology, 5th ed., 1982. 

Hobbs, Horton, H., Jr. "The African Shrimp Genus Potamalpheops in Mexico 
(Decapoda, Alpheidae." Crustaceana 44(2) (1982) :221-24. 

. "On the Distribution of the Genus Procambarus." In Crayfish Dis- 
tribution Patterns, ed. James F. Payne, pp. 1-2. Louisville, Kentucky: Amer- 
ican Society of Zoologists, 1982. 

[Translation] "Crayfishes of Mexico (Crustacea: Decapoda)" [Cam- 



barinos de la Fauna Mexicana: Crustacea Decapoda], by Alejandro Villa- 
bolos, pp. i-xii, 1-276. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Libraries, 
1982. 



468 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



. "Distocambarus (Fitzcambarus) carlsoni, a New Subgenus and Spe- 
cies of Crayfish (Decapoda: Cambaridae) from South Carolina." Proceed- 
ings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(6) (1983) :429-39. 

-. "Distocambarus (Decapoda: Cambaridae) Elevated to Generic Rank, 



with an Account of D. crockeri, New Species, from South Carolina." Pro- 
ceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(6) (1983) :420-28. 

Hobbs, Horton, H., Jr., and Hart, C. W., Jr. "The Shrimp Genus Atya (De- 
capoda: Atyidae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 364. Wash- 
ington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., and Perez Farfante, I. "Alejandro Villalobos Figueroa, 
1918-1982." Obituary. Journal of Crustacean Biology, 1983. 

Hobbs, Horton, H., Jr., and Peters, Daniel J. "The Entocytherid Ostracod 
Fauna of Northern Georgia." Proceedings of the Biological Society of 
Washington 95(2) (1982) :297-318. 

Hobbs, Horton, H., Jr., and Robison, Henry W. "A New Crayfish of the 
Genus Procambarus from Southwestern Arkansas." Proceedings of the 
Biological Society of Washington 95(3) (1982) :545-53. 

Iliffe, Thomas M.; Hart, C. W., Jr.; and Manning, Raymond B. "Biogeography 
and the Caves of Bermuda." Nature 303(5904) (1983) :141-42. 

Ingle, R. W., and Manning, Raymond B. "Variation, Synonymy and Dis- 
tribution of the Spider Crab, Macropodia rostrata (Linnaeus)." Quaderni 
del Laboratorio di Tecnologia delta Pesca 3(2-5) (1982) :271-83. 

Kenk, Roman, and Hampton, Anne M. "Freshwater Triclads (Turbellaria) of 
North America. XIV. Polycelis monticola, New Species, from the Sierra 
Nevada Range in California." Proceedings of the Biological Society of 
Washington 95(3) (1982) :567-70. 

Kensley, B. "Revision of the Southern African Anthuridea (Crustacea: Iso- 
poda)." Annals of the South African Museum 90(3) (1982) :95-200. 

. "Biogeographical Relationships of Some Southern African Benthic 

Crustacea." Memoirs of the Australian Museum 18(1983) :173-82. 

Kensley, B., and Poore, G. C. B. "Anthurids from the Houtman Abrolhos 
Islands, Western Australia (Crustacea: Isopoda: Anthuridea)." Proceedings 
of the Biological Society of Washington 95(3) (1983) :625-36. 

Kensley, B., and Walker, I. "Palaemonid Shrimps from the Amazon Basin, 
Brazil (Crustacea: Decapoda: Natantia)." Smithsonian Contributions to 
Zoology, no. 362. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Kornicker, Louis S. "Harbansus, slatteryi, a New Species of Myodocopine 
Ostracode from the Great Barrier Reef of Australia (Philomedidae)." Pro- 
ceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 96(1) (1983) :181-88. 

. "Alternochelata lizardensis, a New Species of Myodocopine Ostra- 
code from the Great Barrier Reef of Australia (Rutidermatidae)." Proceed- 
ings of the Biological Society of Washington 95(4)(1982) :793-806. 

"Zeugophilomedes, a New Genus of Myodocopine Ostracode." Pro- 



ceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 96(3) (1983) :478-80. 
. "Rutidermatidae of the Continental Shelf of Southeastern North 



America and the Gulf of Mexico." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, 
no. 371. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

"The Ostracode Family Cypridinidae and the Genus Pterocypridina. 



Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 379. Washington, D.C: Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1983. 

"New Species of Dantya from the Indian Ocean (Ostracoda: Sarsiel- 



lidae: Dantyinae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 383. Wash- 
ington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

-, ed. "Biology of the Antarctic Seas XIII." Antarctic Research Series 



34. American Geophysical Union, 1982. 

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 469 



, ed. "Biology of the Antarctic Seas XIII." Antarctic Research Series 

38. American Geophysical Union, 1983. 

-, ed. "Biology of the Antarctic Seas XIV." Antarctic Research Series 



39. American Geophysical Union, 1983. 

Kristensen, Reinhardt M. "The First Record of Cyclomorphosis in Tardigrada 
Based on a New Genus and Species from Arctic Meiobenthos." Zeitschrift 
fUr Zoologische Systematik und Evolutionsforschung 20(4) (1982) :249-70. 

. "Loricifera, a New Phylum with Aschelminthes Characters from 

Meiobenthos." Zeitschrift fUr Zoologische Systematik und Evolutionsfor- 
schung 21(1983) :174-98. 

Kristensen, Reinhardt M., and Niilonen, T. "Structural Studies on Diurodrilus 
Remane (Diurodrilodae fam. n.) with Description of Diurodrilus westheidei 
sp. n. from the Arctic Interstitial Meiobenthos, West Greenland." Zoologica 
Scripta 11(1982) :1-12. 

Kristensen, Reinhardt M., and Nerevang, A. "Description of Psammodrilus 
aedificator sp. n. (Polychaeta), with Notes on the Arctic Interstitial Fauna 
of Disko Island, West Greenland." Zoologica Scripta 11(1983). 

Manning, Raymond B. "A Redescription of Cancer sexpes Fabricius, 1798 
(Crustacea, Decapoda, Hexapodidae)." Steenstrupia 8(5) (1982) :157-61. 

. "Achaeus powelli, a New Spider Crab from Nigeria (Crustacea, 

Decapoda, Majidae)." Journal of Crustacean Biology 2(3) (1982) :459-63. 

Manning, Raymond B., and Camp, David K. "Fennerosquilla, a New Genus 
of Stomatopod Crustacean from the Northwestern Atlantic." Proceedings 
of the Biological Society of Washington 96(2) (1983) :317-22. 

Manning, Raymond B., and Froglia, Carlo. "On a Collection of Decapod 
Crustacea from Sardinia." Quaderni del Laboratorio di Tecnologia della 
Pesca 3(2-5) (1982) :319-34. 

Manning, Raymond B., and Garcia, Renato G. "Notes on Species of the 
Genus Coronidopsis (Crustacea, Stomatopoda, Eurysquillidae)." Journal of 
Crustacean Biology 2(4) (1982) :593-99. 

Manning, Raymond B., and Stevcic, Z. "Decapod Fauna of the Piran Gulf." 
Quaderni del Laboratorio di Tecnologia della Pesca 3(2-5) (1982) :285-304. 

Orsi, James J.; Bowman, Thomas E.; Marelli, Daniel C; and Hutchinson, 
Anne. "Recent Introductions of the Planktonic Calanoid Copepod Sino- 
calanus doerrii (Centropagidae) from Mainland China to the Sacramento- 
San Joaquin Estuary of California." Journal of Plankton Research 5(3) 
(1983) :357-75. 

Pawson, David L. "Echinodermata." In The Encyclopedia of Beaches and 
Coastal Environments, ed. M. L. Schwartz, pp. 381-85. Penn: Hutchinson 
Ross, 1982. 

. "Psychronaetes hanseni, a New Genus and Species of Elasipodan Sea 

Cucumber from the Eastern Pacific (Echinodermata: Holothuroidea)." Pro- 
ceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 96(1) (1983) :154-59. 

"Deep-Sea Echinoderms in the Tongue of the Ocean, Bahama Islands : 



A Survey, Using the Research Submersible Alvin." Australian Museum 
Memoir 16(1982) :129-45. 

Pawson, David L., and Miller, John E. "Systematics and Ecology of the Sea- 
Urchin Genus Centrostephanus (Echinodermata: Echinoidea) from the At- 
lantic and Eastern Pacific Oceans." Smithsonian Contributions to the 
Marine Sciences, no. 20. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 
1983. 

Perez Farfante, Isabel. "The Geminate Shrimp Species Parapenaeus longiro- 
stris and Parapenaeus politus (Crustacea: Decapoda: Penaeoidea)." Quad- 
erni del Laboratorio di Tecnologia della Pesca 3(2-5) (1982) :187-205. 

. "Camarones." In Chirichigno, N.; Fischer, W.; and Nauen, C. E. 



470 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



INFOPESCA. Catdlogo de Especies Marinas de Interes Economico Actual 
o Potencial para America Latina, Pt. 2, pp. 363-81. Pacifico Centre y Surori- 
ental. Rome, FAO/PNUD, SIC/82/2/2, 1982. 

Pettibone, Marian H. "A New Scale Worm (Polychaeta: Polynoidae) from the 
Hydrothermal Rift Area off Western Mexico at 21° N." Proceedings of the 
Biological Society of Washington 96(3)(1983) :392-99. 

. "Minusculisquama hughesi, a New Genus and Species of Scale Worm 

(Polychaeta: Polynoidae) from Eastern Canada." Proceedings of the Bio- 
logical Society of Washington 96(3) (1983) :400-406. 

Rehder, Harald A. "Marine Mollusks of Some Island Groups of Polynesia." 
National Geographic Society Research Reports, 1973 14(1983) :541-48. 

Roper, C. F. E. "An Overview of Cephalopod Systematics: Status, Problems 
and Recommendations." Memoirs of the National Museum of Victoria 44: 
1983. 

Roper, C. F. E., and Sweeney, M. J. "Techniques for Fixation, Preservation 
and Curation of Cephalopods." Memoirs of the National Museum of Vic- 
toria, 1983. 

Roper, C. F. E., and Voss, G. L. "Guidelines for Taxonomic Descriptions of 
Cephalopod Species. Memoirs of the National Museum of Victoria, 1983. 

Roper, C. F. E., and Wormuth, J. H. "Quantitative Sampling of Oceanic 
Cephalopods by Nets: Problems and Recommendations." Biological Ocean- 
ography 2(1983) -.357-77. 

Rosewater, Joseph. [Book Review] "James Graham Cooper — Pioneer Western 
Naturalist," by Eugene Coan. In The Nautilus 97(1)(1983) :44-45. 

. "Another Bivalve-Aphrodita Association with Comments on Adap- 
tive Significance of Oddly-shaped Leptonacea." American Malacological 
Bulletin 1(1983) :90-91. 

"Review of Hawaiian Pinnidae and Revalidation of Pinna exquisita 



Dall, Bartsch, and Rehder, 1938 (Bivalvia: Mytiloida)." Pacific Science 
(1982) 36(4) (1983) :453-58. 

Ruppert, Edward E., and Rice, Mary E. "Structure, Ultrastructure, and Func- 
tion of the Terminal Organ of a Pelagosphera Larva (Sipuncula)." Zoo- 
morphology 102(1983) :143-63. 

Riitzler, Klaus. "Porifera." In The Encyclopedia of Beaches and Coastal En- 
vironments, ed. Maurice L. Schwartz, pp. 650-54. Stroudsburg, Pa.: Hutch- 
inson Ross Publishing Co., 1982. 

Thomas, J. D., and Barnard, J. L. "Transformation of the Leucothoides 
Morph to the Anamixis Morph (Crustacea: Amphipoda)." Journal of Crus- 
tacean Biology 3(1983) :154-57. 

. "The Platyischnopidae of America (Amphipoda, Crustacea)." Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 375. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian 
Institution Press, 1983. 

Toll, Ronald B. "The lycoteuthid genus Oregoniateuthis Voss, 1956, a syn- 
onym of Lycoteuthis Pfeffer, 1900 (Cephalopoda: Teuthoidea)." Proceed- 
ings of the Biological Society of Washington 96(3) (1983) :365-69. 

Williams, Austin B. "Revision of the genus Latreillia Roux (Brachyura: 
Homoloidea)." Quaderni del Laboratorio de Tecnologia della Pesca 3(2-5) 
(1982) :227-55. 

. "Citation Classic. Marine Decapod Crustaceans of the Carolinas. Tish. 

Bull. 65:1-298. 1965." Current Contents 14(17) :20. Philadelphia, 1983. 

Department of Mineral Sciences 

Almohandis, A. A., and Clarke, R. S., Jr. "The South Dahna, Saudi Arabia, 

Iron Meteorite (Abstract)." Meteoritics 17(1982) :179-80. 
Appleman, D. E. "Crystal-chemical Behavior of the Cupric Ion in Basic Cop- 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 471 



per Nitrate Minerals." Geological Society of America, Abstracts with Pro- 
grams 15(6). 

Bennett, J. T.; Krishnaswami, S.; Turekian, K. K.; Melson, W. G.; and Hop- 
son, C. A. "The Uranium and Thorium Decay Series Nuclides in Mt. St. 
Helens Effusives." Earth and Planetary Science Letters 60(1982) :61-69. 

Bowes, W. A.; Kutina, J.; Aaker, S. K.; Fredriksson, K.; and Golightly, D. W. 
"A Porphry-Type Mo-Cu Discovery at Granite Mountain, Nevada: Pre- 
dictions Based on Mineralogical and Geochemical Study of Zoning." Global 
Tectonics and Metallogeny 1 (4) (1982) . -402-39. 

Clarke, R. S., Jr. "Description of Iron Meteorites and Overview of Antarctic 
Irons." In Catalog of Meteorites from Victoria Land, Antarctica, 1978- 
1980, ed. U. B. Marvin and B. Mason. Smithsonian Contributions to the 
Earth Sciences, no. 24(1982) :49-59. 

. "Meteoritic Metal from Antarctica." Antarctic Journal 16(5) (1982): 

64-65. 

'The Derrick Peak, Antarctica, Iron Meteorites." Meteoritics 17 



(1982) :129-34. 
Clarke, R. S., Jr., and B. Mason. "A New Metal-Rich Mesosiderite from 

Antarctica, RKPA79015." Memoirs of the National Institute of Polar Re- 
search (Tokyo), Special Issue 25(1982) :78-85. 
Dodd, R. T., and Jarosewich, E. "Chemical Variations Among L-Groups 

Chondrites, III. Major Element Variations in L6 Chrondrites." Meteoritics 

16(1981) :93-lll. 
. "The Compositions of Incipient Chock Melts in L6 Chondrites." Earth 

and Planetary Science Letters 59(1982) :355-63. 
Dodd, R. T.; Jarosewich, E.; and Hill, B. "Petrogenesis of Complex Veins in 

the Chantonay (L6F) Chondrite." Earth and Planetary Science Letters 59 

(1982) :364-74. 
Fredriksson, K. "Chondrites are Not Metamorphic Rocks." Conference on 

Chondrules and Their Origins, LPI (1982) :17-18 [Extended abstract]. 
Fredriksson, K.; Brenner, Ph.; King-Frazier, G.; and Specht, S. "Rapid Bulk 

Analysis of Small Samples of Stony Meteorites, Rocks and Minerals 

[Abstract]." Meteoritics 17(1982) :215-16. 
Fredriksson, K., and Glass, B. P. "Micro-Irghizites from a Sediment Sample 

from the Zhamanshin Impact Structure [Extended abstract]." Lunar and 

Planet. Sci. XIV(1983) :209-10. 
Fredriksson, K.; Youngblood, E.; and Fredriksson, B. J. "The Celtic Vitrified 

Forts." In Petrology of Archaeological Artifacts, ed. D. R. C. Kempe and 

A. P. Harvey, pp. 154-70. Oxford, Clarendon Press. 
Fudali, R. F. "Gravity Measurements Across the Allan Hills Main Meteorite 

Collecting Area." Antarctic Journal of the United States 17, no. 5 (1982). 
Futrell, D. S., and Fredriksson, K. "Brecciated Muong Nong-Type Tektites." 

Meteoritics 18(1983) :15-17. 
Hopson, C. A., and Melson, W. "Stratigraphy of Mount St. Helens Crater 

Walls [Abstract]." EOS 63(45) (1982) :1144. 
Lonsdale, P. F.; Batiza, R.; and Simkin, T. "Metallogenesis at Seamounts on 

the East Pacific Rise." Marine Technical Society Journal 16(3) (1982) :54-61. 
Mason, B.; Berry, L. G.; and Dietrich, R. V. "Mineralogy: Concepts, Descrip- 
tions, Determinations." 2d ed. San Francisco: W. H. Freeman & Co., 1983. 
Mason, B., and Clarke, R. S., Jr. "Characterization of the 1980-81 Victoria 

Land Meteorite Collection." Memoirs of the National Institute of Polar 

Research (Tokyo), Special Issue 25(1982) :17-33. 
Mason, B., and Marvin, U. B. "Catalog of meteorites from Victoria Land, 

Antarctica, 1978-1980. Smithsonian Contributions to Earth Sciences, 24 

(1982) :l-97. 



472 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Mason, B., and Moore, C. B. "Principles of Geochemistry." 4th ed. New York: 
John Wiley & Sons, 1982. 

Mason, B., and Taylor, S. R. "Inclusions in the Allende meteorite." Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Earth Sciences 25(1982) :l-30. 

Melson, W. G. "The Cyclical Nature of Explosive Volcanism: A Petrological 
Approach to Volcano Forecasting." In California Division of Mines and 
Geology Special Publication 69, "Status of Volcano Prediction and Emer- 
gency Response Capabilities in Volcano Hazard Zones of California," pp. 
99-118. 

Melson, W. G., and Hopson, C. A. "Petrologic model of the 1980-82 Mt. St. 
Helens Magma Chamber [Abstract]." EOS 63(1982) :1144. 

Nakai, I., and Appleman, D. E. "Lafflttite, AgHgAsSs: Crystal Structure and 
Second Occurrence from the Getchell Mine, Nevada." American Mineralo- 
gist 68(1983) :235-44. 

Natland, J. H.; Adamson, A. C; Laverne, C; Melson, W. G.; and O'Hearn, T. 
"Compositionally Nearly Steady-State Magma Chamber at the Costa Rica 
Rift: Evidence from Basalt Glass and Mineral Data, Deep Sea Drilling 
Project Sites 501, 504, and 505." Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling 
Project 69(1983) :811-58. 

Pagoaga, M. K.; Stewart, J. M.; and Appleman, D. E. "Intralayer Bonding 
and Street Structure of Uranyl Oxide Hydrates." American Crystallo- 
graphic Association, Program and Abstracts 11(1983) :46. 

Robinson, P. T.; Melson, W. G.; O'Hearn, T.; and Schmincke, H-U. "Vol- 
canic Glass Compositions of the Troodos Ophiolite, Cyprus." Geology 11 
(7)(1983):369-432. 

Simkin, T. "Volcanology : Review of 1982." Geotimes 28(1983) :39-41. 

Wlotzka, F.; Palme, H.; Spettel, G.; Wanke, H.; Fredriksson, K.; and 
Noonan, A. "Alkali Differentiation in LL-Chondrites." Geochimica et 
Cosmochimica Acta 47(1983) :743-57. 

Department of Paleobiology 

Adey, Walter H. "The Microcosm: a New Tool for Reef Research." Coral 

Reefs 1, no. 3 (1982) :193-201. 
Anastasakis, G. L., and Stanley, D. J. "Sapropels and Organic-Rich Variants 

in the Mediterranean: Sequence Development and Classification." London 

Geological Society Special Publication (1983). 
Behrensmeyer, A. K. "Commentary on: Parental Investment: The Hominid 

Adaptation." In How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey, ed. D. J. 

Ortner, pp. 56-58. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 
. "Natural Bone Distributions on Recent Land Surfaces: Implications 

for Archeological Site Formation." In Animals and Archeology: 1. Hunters 

and Their Prey, ed. J. Clutton-Brock and C. Grigson, pp. 93-106. British 

Archaeological Reports Series 163. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1983. 
. "Human Evolution and the Environments of the Plio-Pleistocene." 



Interim Evidence (Foundation for Research on Man Newsletter) 5, no. 1 
(1983) :l-6. 

"Paleoenvironmental Changes Recorded in Overbank Facies of Flu- 



vial Systems in Northern Pakistan." [Abstract] Geological Society of 
America Abstracts with Programs 15, no. 7 (1983). 

Behrensmeyer, A. K., and Schindel, David. "Resolving Time in Paleobiology." 
Paleobiology 9, no. 1 (1983) :l-8. 

Benson, R. H. "Deformation, DaVinci's Concept of Form, and the Analy- 
sis of Events in Evolutionary History." In Palaeontology, Essential of His- 
torical Geology, ed. E. M. Gallitelli, pp. 241-77. Modena, Italy: Instituto di 
Paleontologia, Universita di Modena, 1982. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 473 



Benson, R. H.; Chapman, R. E.; and Siegel, A. F. "On the Measurement of 
Morphology and Its Change." Paleobiology 8, no 4 (1982) :328-39. 

Boardman, R. S. "General Features of the Stenolaemata." In Treatise on In- 
vertebrate Paleontology, Part G, Bryozoa, Revised, ed. R. A. Robison, pp. 
49-137. Boulder, Colo., and Lawrence, Kan.: Geological Society of Amer- 
ica, Inc., and University of Kansas, 1983. 

Boardman, R. S., and Cheetham, A. H. "Glossary of Morphological Terms." 
In Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology, Part C, Bryozoa, Revised, ed. 
R. A. Robison, pp. 304-20, Boulder, Colo., and Lawrence, Kan.: Geo- 
logical Society of America, Inc., and University of Kansas, 1983. 

Boardman, R. S.; Cheetham, A. H.; and Cook, P. L. "Introductions to the 
Bryozoa." In Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology, Part C, Bryozoa, Re- 
vised, ed. R. A. Robison, pp. 3-48. Boulder, Colo., and Lawrence, Kan.: 
Geological Society of America, Inc., and University of Kansas, 1983. 

Burollet, P. F.; Lafitte, R.; Lazreg, H.; Movelli, C; and Stanley, D. J. "Affaire 
du Plateau Continental, Tunisie-Jamahiriya arabe libyenne. Etude scien- 
tifique de memoire libyen et son annexe II." Contre-Memoire, Couverne- 
ment de la Republique Ti4nisienne, International Court of Justice. The 
Hague: International Court of Justice, 1982. 

Buzas, M. A. "Regulation of Foraminiferal Densities by Predation in the 
Indian River, Florida." Journal of Foraminiferal Research 12, no. 1 (1982) : 
66-71. 

Buzas, M. A., and Culver, S. J. "Biogeography of Modern Benthic Foramini- 
fera." In Foraminifera Notes for a Short Course Organized by M. A. Buzas 
and B. K. Sen Gupta, ed. T. W. Broadhead, pp. 90-106. University of 
Tennessee Studies in Geology 6, Knoxville, 1982. 

Buzas, M. A.; Koch, C. F.; Culver, S. J.; and Sohl, N. F. "On the Distribu- 
tion of Species Occurrence." Paleobiology 8, no. 2 (1982) :143-50. 

Cheetham, A. H. "Patterns of Morphologic Change in Late Tertiary Cheilo- 
stome Bryozoans from the Dominican Republic: Metrarabdotos Revisited." 
[Abstract] International Bryozoology Association, Sixth International Con- 
ference, University of Vienna, Austria: 1983. 

Cheetham, A. H., and Cook, P. L. "General Features of the Class Gymnolae- 
mata." In Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology, Part G, Bryozoa, Revised, 
ed. R. A. Robison, pp. 138-207. Boulder, Colo., and Lawrence, Kan.: Geo- 
logical Society of America, Inc., and University of Kansas, 1983. 

Cifelli, Richard, and McCloy, Cecilia. "Planktonic Foraminifera and Euthe- 
cosomatus Pteropods in the Surface Waters of the North Atlantic." Journal 
of Foraminiferal Research 13, no. 2 (1983) :91-107. 

Cifelli, Richard, and Scott, G. H. "The New Zealand Early Miocene Globoro- 
taliids Globorotalia incognita and G. zealandica." Journal of Foramini- 
feral Research 13, no. 3 (1983) :163-66. 

Culver, S. J., and Buzas, M. A. "Recent Benthic Foraminiferal Provinces be- 
tween Newfoundland and Yucatan: Reply." Geological Society of America 
Bulletin 93, no. 10 (1982) :1061-62. 

. "Benthic Foraminifera at the Shelfbreak: North American Atlantic 

and Gulf Margins." In The Shelfbreak: Critical Interface on Continental 
Margins: Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists Special 
Publication, no. 33, ed. D. J. Stanley and G. T. Moore, pp. 359-71. Tulsa, 
Okla. : Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists, 1983. 

. "Recent Benthic Foraminiferal Provinces in the Gulf of Mexico." 



Journal of Foraminiferal Research 13, no. 1 (1983) :21-31. 
Emry, R. J., and Rose, K. D. "Extraordinary Fossorial Adaptations in the 
Oligocene Palaeonodonts Epoicotherium and Xenocranium (Mammalia)." 
Journal of Morphology 175, no. 1 (1983) : 33-56. 



474 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Gennesseaux, M., and Stanley, D. J. "Sardinian and Tunisian Margins in Con- 
tact (Central Mediterranean) : A Complex Record of Geologically Recent 
Displacement." [Abstract] 28th Congress C.I.E.S.M., Cannes, France, De- 
cember 1982. 

Grant, R. E. "Argyrotheca arguta, A New Species of Brachiopod from the 
Marshall Islands, Western Pacific." Biological Society of Washington, Pro- 
ceedings 96, no. 1 (1983) : 178-80. 

Hueber, F. M. "A New Species of Baragwanathia from the Sextant Formation 
(Emsian) Northern Ontario, Canada." Botanical Journal of the Linnean 
Society 86, nos. 1-2 (1983) -.57-79, 49 figs. 

. "A New Fern from the Tournaisian of North Queensland, Australia." 

[Abstract] European Paleobotanical Conference, Montpellier, France: Ab- 
stracts of Papers (1983) :20. 

Jarosewich, Eugene, and Macintyre, I. G. "Carbonate Reference Samples for 
Electron Microprobe and Scanning Electron Microscope Analyses." Journal 
of Sedimentary Petrology 53, no. 2 (1983) -.677-78. 

Eighty, R. G.; Macintyre, I. G.; and Stuckenrath, Robert. "Acropora palmata 
Reef Framework: A Reliable Indicator of Sea Level in the Western Atlantic 
for the Past 10,000 Years." Coral Reefs 1, no. 2 (1982) :125-30. 

Macintyre, I. G. "Growth, Depositional Facies, and Diagenesis of a Modern 
Bioherm, Galeta Point, Panama." In Carbonate Buildups — A Core Work- 
shop: SEPM Core Workshop Number 4, ed. P. M. Harris, pp. 578-93. Tulsa, 
Okla. : Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists, 1983. 

. "Submarine Cements — The Peloidal Question." [Abstract] American 

Association of Petroleum Geologists Annual Convention, Dallas, Texas: 
Book of Abstracts (1983) :120. 

Macintyre, I. G.; Burke, R. B.; and Stuckenrath, Robert. "Core Holes in the 
Outer Fore Reef off Carrie Bow Cay, Belize: A Key to the Holocene His- 
tory of the Belizean Barrier Reef Complex." In Proceedings of the Fourth 
International Coral Reef Symposium, Volume 1, pp. 567-74. Quezon City, 
Philippines: University of the Philippines, 1981 [1983]. 

Macintyre, I. G.; Raymond, Bill; and Stuckenrath, Robert. "Recent History of 
a Fringing Reef, Bahia Salina del Sur, Vieques Island, Puerto Rico." Atoll 
Research Bulletin, no. 268 (1983). 

Ray, C. E. Handbook of Marine Mammals. Vol. 1: The Walrus, Sea Lions, 
Fur Seals, and Sea Otter. Vol. 2: Seals, ed. S. H. Ridgway and R. J. 
Harrison. [Book Review] Journal of Mammalogy 63, no. 4 (1982) :721-24. 

. "Hooded Seal, Cystophora cristata: Supposed Fossil Records in North 

America." Journal of Mammalogy 63, no. 3 (1983) :509-12. 

. Prologue. In "Geology and Paleontology of the Lee Creek Mine, 

North Carolina." Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology, no. 53, ed. 
C. E. Ray, pp. 1-14. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

. "Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology Committee Report." Society of 

Vertebrate Paleontology News Bulletin, no. 127 (1983) :8-9; 17-20. 

. "Outerbank Ovibovine Adds Link to Musk Ox Research." Whale- 
bones, The Quarterly Newsletter of the North Carolina State Museum of 
Natural History, no. 15 (1983) :3. 

Ray, C. E.; Reiner, F.; Sergeant, D. E.; and Nores, C. "Notes on Past and 
Present Distribution of the Bearded Seal, Erignathus barbatus, around the 
North Atlantic Ocean." Memorias do Museu do Mar (Cascais, Portugal), 
Serie Zoological 2, no. 23 (1982) :l-32. 

Rona, P. A.; Bostrom, K.; and Stanley, D. J. "Iron-Cemented Sediment on 
Lower Continental Slope off Cape Hatteras." Geo-Marine Letters 2, nos. 
1-2 (1982) :89-94. 

Stanley, D. J. "Plate Tectonics and Offshore Boundary Sedimentation: Tunisia- 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 475 



Libya Case at the International Court of Justice." Geo-Marine Letters 2, 
nos. 1-2 (1982) :101-7. 

-. "Welded Slump-graded Sand Couplets: Evidence for Slide Generated 



Turbidity Currents." Geo-Marine Letters 2(1982). 

"Mediterranean Margin and Basin Sedimentation as Related to Dy- 



namic Mud Transport. Erice, Sicily: NATO Advanced Research Institute, 
19-27 November, 1982. 

"Parallel Laminated Deep-sea Muds and Coupled Gravity Flow — 



Hemipelagic Settling in the Mediterranean." Smithsonian Contributions to 
the Marine Sciences, no. 19. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1983. 

'Evidence of Slide-Triggered Turbidity Currents in the Rock Record." 



[Abstract] Research Conference on Seafloor Stability of Continental Mar- 
gins. Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, October 1982. 

-. "Unifites: Structureless Muds of Gravity-flow Origin in Mediter- 



ranean Basins." [Abstract] London Geological Society Symposium on Con- 
tinental Slope: Processes and Stability. London, England, December 1982. 
-. "Plate Tectonics and Offshore Boundary Delimitation: Tunisia- 



Libya Case at the International Court of Justice." [Abstract] Annual Meet- 
ing of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists. Dallas, Texas, 
April 1983. 

"Mediterranean Circulation Patterns in the Past-Analogies with the 



Black Sea." [Abstract] NATO Workshop on Atmospheric and Oceanic 
Circulation in the Mediterranean Basin. La Spezia, Italy, September 1983. 

Stanley, D. J.; Addy, S. K.; and Behrens, E. W. "The Mudline: Variability of 
Its Position Relative to Shelf break." In The Shelf break: Critical Interface 
on Continental Margins; Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralo- 
gists Special Publication, no. 33, ed. D. J. Stanley and G. T. Moore, pp. 279- 
98. Tulsa, Okla. : Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists, 
1983. 

Stanley, D. J.; Freedland, G. L.; and Sheng, Harrison. "Dispersal of Mediter- 
ranean and Suez Bay Sediments in the Suez Canal." Marine Geology 49 
(1982) :61-79. 

Stanley, D. J., and Maldonado, Andres. "Southeastern Mediterranean (Levan- 
tine Basin-Nile Cone) Sedimentation and Evolution." In National Geo- 
graphic Society Research Reports, 1974 Projects, pp. 609-27. Washington, 
D.C. : National Geographic Society, 1983. 

Stanley, D. J., and Moore, G. T., eds. The Shelfbreak: Critical Interface on 
Continental Margins: Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineral- 
ogists Special Publication, no. 33. Tulsa, Okla.: Society of Economic 
Paleontologists and Mineralogists, 1983. 

Towe, K. M. "Precambrian Atmospheric Oxygen and Banded Iron Forma- 
tions: A Delayed Ocean Model." Precambrian Research 20, no. 2 (1983): 
161-70. 

. "Evolutionary Pathways Derived from Biochemical Fence Diagrams." 

[Abstract] Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs 16, no. 
6 (1983) : abstract no. 31566. 

Vanney, J. R., and Stanley, D. J. "Shelfbreak Physiography, and Overview." 
In Shelfbreak: Critical Interface on Continental Margins: Society of Eco- 
nomic Paleontologists and Mineralogists Special Publication, no. 33, ed. 
D. J. Stanley and G. T. Moore, pp. 1-24. Tulsa, Okla.: Society of Economic 
Paleontologists and Mineralogists, 1983. 

Waller, T. R. "Dahllite in the Periostracum of Lithophaga nigra (MoUusca: 
Bilvalvia) and its Taxonomic and Functional Implications." [Abstract] 
American Malacological Bulletin 1(1983) :101. 



476 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Williams, S. L., and Adey, W. H. "Thalassia testudium Banks ex Konig 
Seedling Success in a Coral Reef Microcosm." Aquatic Botany 16, no. 2 
(1983) :181-88. 

Department of Vertebrate Zoology 

Beehler, Bruce. "Frugivory and Polygamy in Birds of Paradise." The Auk 
100(1983) :1-12. 

Carleton, M. D.; Wilson, D. E.; Gardner, A. L.; and Bogan, M. A. "Distribu- 
tional Systematics of Peromyscus (Mammalia: Rodentia) of Nayarit, 
Mexico." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 352. Washington, 
D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Crawford, Robert L.; Olson, Storrs L.; and Taylor, Walter Kingsley. "Winter 
Distribution of Subspecies of Clapper Rails (Rallus longirostris) in Florida 
with Evidence for Long-Distance and Overland Movements." The Auk 100 
(1983) :198-200. 

Drewry, George E.; Heyer, W. Ronald; and Rand, A. Stanley. "A Functional 
Analysis of the Complex Call of the Frog Physalaemus pustulosus." Copeia 
3(1982) :636-45. 

Eyde, Richard H., and Olson, Storrs L. "The Dead Trees of Ilha da Trindade." 
Bartonia 49(1983) :32-51. 

Froehlich, J. W., and Thorington, R. W., Jr. "The Genetic Structure and Socio- 
ecology of Howler Monkeys (Alouatta palliata) on Barro Colorado Island." 
In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest, ed. E. G. Leigh, Jr.; A. S. Rand; and 
D. M. Windsor, pp. 291-305. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1982. 

Gibbs, Robert H., Jr. "Alepisauridae." In FAO Species Identification Sheets 
for Fishery Purposes. Eastern Central Atlantic, ed. W. Fischer; G. Bianchi; 
and W. B. Scott, 1981. 

. "Exocoetidae." In FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fishery Pur- 
poses. Eastern Central Atlantic, ed. W. Fischer; G. Bianchi; and W. B. 
Scott, 1981. 

Gibbs, Robert H., Jr.; Clarke, Thomas A.; and Gomon, Janet R. "Taxonomy 
and Distribution of the Stomioid Fish Genus Eustomias (Melanostomiidae), 
I: Subgenus Nominostomias." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 
380. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Glanz, W. E.; Thorington, R. W., Jr.; Giacalone-Madden, Jr.; and Heaney, 
L. R. "Seasonal Food Use and Demographic Trends in Sciurus granatensis." 
In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest, ed. E. G. Leigh, Jr.; A. S. Rand; and 
D. M. Windsor, 239-251. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 
1982. 

Handley, Charles O., Jr. "Christmas Bird Count: Lewisburg, W.Va." Ameri- 
can Birds 36(1982) :567. 

Heyer, W. Ronald. "Two New Species of the Frog Genus Hylodes from 
Caparao, Minas Gerais, Brasil (Amphibia: Leptodactylidae)." Proceedings 
of the Biological Society of Washington 95(2)(1982) :377-85. 

. "Clarification of the Names Rana mystacea Spix, 1824, Leptodactylus 

amazonicus Heyer, 1978 and a description of a new species, Leptodactylus 
spixi (Amphibia: Leptodactylidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society 
of Washington 96(2) (1983) :270-72. 

Heyer, W. Ronald; Daugherty, Charles H.; and Maxson, Linda R. "Systematic 
Resolution of the Genera of the Crinia Complex (Amphibia: Anura: Myo- 
batrachidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 95(3) 
(1982) :423-27. 

James, Helen F., and Olson, Storrs L. "Flightless Birds." Natural History 92 
(9)(1983):30-40. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 477 



Kirkland, Gordon L., and Schmidt, David F. "Abundance, Habitat, Reproduc- 
tion and Morphology of Forest-dwelling Small Mammals of Nova Scotia 
and Southeastern New Brunswick." Canadian Field-Naturalist 96(2)(1982): 
156-62. 

Olson, Storrs L. "A Critique of Cracraft's Classification of Birds." The Auk 
99(4) (1982) :733-39. 

. "Evidence for Polyphyletic Origin of the Piciformes." The Auk 100 

(l)(1983):126-33. 

"Geographic Variation in Chlorospingus ophthalmicus in Colombia 



and Venezuela (Aves: Thraupidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society 
of Washington 96(1) (1983) :103-9. 

-. "Biological Archeology in the West Indies." Florida Anthropologist 



35(4) (1983) :162-68. 

"The Distribution of the Races of Arremon aurantiirostris (Emberi- 



zinae) in Panama." Bulletin of the British Ornithologists' Club 103(3) 
(1983) :84-86. 

-. "A Hybrid Between the Orioles Icterus chrysater and /. mesomelas." 



The Auk 100(3) (1983) :733-35. 
Olson, Storrs L., and James, Helen F. "Prodromus of the Fossil Avifauna of 

the Hawaiian Islands." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 365. 

Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 
Pagels, J. F.; Jones, C. S.; and Handley, C. O., Jr. "Northern Limits of the 

Southeastern Shrew, Sorex longirostris Bachman (Insectivora: Soricidae), 

on the Atlantic Coast of the United States." Brimleyana 8(1983) :51-59. 
Poss, S. G., and Springer, V. G. "Eschmeyer nexus, A New Genus and Species 

of Scorpaenid Fish from Fiji." Proceedings of the Biological Society of 

Washington 96(2) (1983) :309-16. 
Ralls, K.; Hayek, L.-A.; and Handley, C. O., Jr. "Correlations between Three 

Possible Measures of Size in Neotropical Bats." Saugetierkundliche Mittei- 

lungen 30(3) (1982) :190-98. 
Ripley, S. D. [Foreword] The Japanese Crane, Birds of Happiness, by Dorothy 

Britton and Tsuneo Hayashida. Tokyo: Kodansha International, 1981. 
. "Joshua Taylor 'A Museum Is a Bridge That Should be Well- 
Traveled.' " ARTnews 80(6) (1981) :119. 

"Occurrence of Surf Scoter in Penobscot Bay, Maine." American 



Birds 37(1) (1983) :121. 

"Tibet: The High and Fragile Land Behind the Ranges." Smithsonian 



11(10) (1981) :97-105. 

[Foreword] How Humans Adapt, A Biocultural Odyssey, ed. Donald 



J. Ortner. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 
. "Yellow-collared Macaw in Fort Lauderdale." Florida Field Naturalist 



10(1982) :59. 

[Review] Birds in Medieval Manuscripts, by Brunsdon Yapp. Ameri- 



can Scientist 70(1982) :636-37. 

Ripley, S. D., and Hadden, Don. "A New Subspecies of Zoothera (Aves: 
Muscicapidae: Turdinae) from the Northern Solomon Islands." Journal of 
the Yamashina Institute for Ornithology 14(2/3) (1982) :103-7. 

Springer, V. G. "Explorations for Coral Reef Fishes in the Molucca Islands, 
Indonesia." National Geographic Society Research Reports 14 (1982) :631- 
33. 

. "Pacific Plate Biogeography, with Special Reference to Shorefishes." 

Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 367. Washington, D.C: Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Thorington, R. W., Jr. [Review] Mammalian Biology in South America, ed. 
M. A. Mares and H. H. Genoways. Science 221(1983) :49-50. 



478 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Thorington, R. W., Jr.; Tannenbaum, B.; Tarak, A.; and Rudran, R. "Dis- 
tribution of Trees on Barro Colorado Island: A Five Hectare Sample." In 
The Ecology of a Tropical Forest, ed. E. C. Leigh, Jr.; A. 5. Rand; and 
D. M. Windsor, pp. 83-94. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1982. 

Vari, Richard P. "Curimatopsis myersi, a New Curimatid Characiform Fish 
(Pisces: Characiformes) from Paraquay." Proceedings of the Biological 
Society of Washington 95(4) (1982) :788-92. 

. "Systematics of the Neotropical Characoid genus Curimatopsis 

(Pisces: Characoidei)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 373. 
Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

. "The Seahorses (Subfamily Hippocampinae)." In Fishes of the West- 
ern North Atlantic, vol. 8, ed. J. E. Bohlke, pp. 178-89, 1982. 

-. "Phylogenetic Relationships of the Families Curimatidae, Prochilo- 



dontidae, Anostomidae and Chilodontidae (Pisces: Characiformes)." Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 378. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian 
Institution Press, 1983. 

Wassersug, Richard J., and Heyer, W. Ronald. "Morphological Correlates of 
Subaerial Existence in Leptodactylid Tadpoles Associated with Flowing 
Water." Canadian Journal of Zoology 61(4)(1983) :761-69. 

Weitzman, Stanley. "Fluviphylax pygmaeus, a Miniature Killifish from Tropi- 
cal South American Freshwaters." Journal of the American Killifish Asso- 
ciation 15(5) (1982) :190-200. 

Wood, D. Scott; Zusi, Richard L.; and Jenkinson, Marion Anne. "World In- 
ventory of Avian Skeletal Specimens, 1982." Norman, Okla. : American 
Ornithologists' Union and Oklahoma Biological Survey, 1982. 

. "World Inventory of Avian Specimens, 1982." Norman, Okla.: 

American Ornithologists' Union and Oklahoma Biological Survey, 1982. 

Zug, George R. "Pacific Herpetology: Some Recent Books." Herpetologica 
38(3) (1982) :445-46. 

. "Searching for Hidden Animals. An Inquiry into Zoological Mys- 
teries." [Review] Crypfozoo/ogj/ 1(1973) :84-85. 

Zug, George R.; Barber, Margaret; and Dudley, Joan. "Gonadal Histology 
and Reproduction in Carlia bicarinata (Scincidae, Sauria, Reptilia) of Port 
Moresby Area, Papua New Gunea." Herpetologica 38(3)(1982) :418-25. 

Zug, George R.; Wynn, Addison H.; and Ruckdeschel, Carol. "Age Estimates 
of Cumberland Island Loggerhead Sea Turtles." Marine Turtle News. 
25(1983) :9-ll. 

Zusi, Richard L.; Wood, D. Scott; and Jenkinson, Marion Anne. "Remarks on 
a World-wide Inventory of Avian Anatomical Specimens." The Auk 99(4) 
(1982) :740-57. 

Handbook of North American Indians 

Brugge, David M.; Goddard, R. H. Ives, III; and de Reuse, Willem J. "Syn- 
onymy" in the chapter "Navajo Prehistory and History to 1850." In South- 
west, ed. Alfonso Ortiz. Handbook of North American Indians 10:496-98. 
W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution, 1983. 

de Reuse, Willem J. "Synonymy" in the chapter "The Apachean Culture Pat- 
tern and its Origins." In Southwest, ed. Alfonso Ortiz. Handbook of North 
American Indians 10:385-92. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C: 
Smithsonian Institution, 1983. 

Sturtevant, William C, gen. ed. Southwest. Alfonso Ortiz, vol. ed. Handbook 
of North American Indians, vol. 10. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, 1983. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 479 



Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center 

Hendler, G. "The Feeding Biology of Ophioderma brevispinum (Echino- 
dermata: Ophiuroidea)." In J. M. Lawrence, ed.. Proceedings of the Inter- 
national Echinoderms Conference — Tampa Bay, pp. 21-27. Rotterdam: 
A. A. Balkema, 1982. 

. "Slow Flicks Show Star Tricks: Elapsed-time Analysis of Basketstar 

(Astrophyton muricatum) Feeding Behavior." Bulletin of Marine Science 
32(1982) :909-18. 

. "An Echinoderm Vitellaria with a Bilateral Larval Skeleton: Evi- 



dence for the Evolution of Ophiuroid Vitellariae from Ophioplutei." Bio- 
logical Bulletin 163(1982) :431-37. 

Landrum, B. J. "Processing and Systematic Analysis of Antarctic Collections." 
Antarctic Journal of the U.S. 1982 Review 17(5) (1982) :259. 

Menez, E., and Calumpong, H. "The Genus Caulerpa from Central Visayas, 
Philippines." Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences, no. 17. 
Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

. "Thalassodendron ciliatum: An Unreported Seagrass in the Philip- 
pines." Micronesia 18(2) (1983) :103-11. 

Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port 

Barnard, J. Laurens, and Thomas, J. D. "The Transformation of the Leu- 
cothoides Morphology into the Anamixis Morphology." Journal of Crusta- 
cean Biology 3(1) (1983) :154-57. 

Buzas, M. A., and Severin, K. P. "Distribution and Systematics of Foramini- 
fera in the Indian River, Florida." Smithsonian Contributions to Marine 
Science, no. 16. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press. 

Factor, J. R. "Development and Metamorphosis of the Feeding Apparatus of 
the Stone Crab, Menippe mercenaria (Brachyura: Xanthidae)." Journal of 
Morphology 172(3) (1982) :299-312. 

Fauchald, Kristian. "Life Diagram Patterns in Benthic Polychaetes." Proceed- 
ings of the Biological Society of Washington 97(1) (1983) :160-77. 

Gore, R. H. "Porcellanid Crabs from the Pacific and Atlantic Coasts of Cen- 
tral America (Crustacea: Decapoda: Anomura.)" Smithsonian Contributions 
to Zoology, no. 363. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press. 

. "The Identity of Petrolisthes marginatus Stimpson 1859 and the De- 
scription of Petrolisthes dissimulatus sp. nov. (Crustacea: Decapoda: Porcel- 
lanidae." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 96(1)(1982): 
89-102. 

Gore, R. H., and Scotto, L. E. "Studies on Decapod Crustacea from the Indian 
River Region of Florida. XXV. Carapacial and Abdominal Allometry in 
Five Species of Subtropical Parthenopid Crabs (Brachyura: Parthenopi- 
dae)." Crustaceana 44(1) (1982) :l-22. 

. "Cyclograpsus integer H. Milne Edwards, 1837 (Brachyura, Grapsi- 

dae) : The Complete Larval Development in the Laboratory, with Notes on 
Larvae of the Genus Cyclograpsus. Fishery Bulletin, U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service 80(3) (1982) :501-21. 

"Studies on Decapod Crustacea from the Indian River Region of 



Florida. XXVII. Phimochirus holthuisi (Provenzano, 1961) (Anomura: Pagu- 
ridae) : The Complete Larval Development Under Laboratory Conditions, 
and the Systematic Position of Its Larvae." Journal of Crustacean Biology 
3(1)(1981):93-116. 
Gore, R. H.; Scotto, L. E.; and Reed, John K. "Early Larval Stages of the 
Indo-Pacific Coral Gall-Forming Crab Hapalocarcinus marsupialis Stimp- 
son, 1859 (Brachyura: Hapalocarcinidae) Cultured in the Laboratory" Crus- 
taceana 44(2) (1982) :141-50. 



480 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Gore, Robert H.; Scotto, L. E.; and Yang, Won Tack. "Microphrys hicornutus 
(Latreille, 1825) : The Complete Larval Development Under Laboratory Con- 
ditions with Notes on Other Mithracine Larvae (Decapoda: Brachyura: 
Majidae)." Journal of Crustacean Biology 2(4) (1982) :514-34. 

Hines, A. H. "Allometric Constraints and Variables of Reproductive Effort of 
Brachyuran Crabs." Marine Biology 69(1982) :309-20. 

Miller, John E., and Pawson, David L. "Holothurians (Echinodermata: Holo- 
thuroidea)." Memoirs of the Hourglass Cruises 7(1) (1983) :l-79. 

Pawson, David L., and Miller, John E. "Studies of Genetically Controlled 
Phenotypic Characters in Laboratory Reared Lytechinus variegatus (La- 
marck) (Echinodermata: Echinoidea) from Bermuda and Florida. In Echino- 
derms: Proceedings of the International Conference, Tampa Bay, 1981, ed. 
John L. Lawrence, pp. 165-71. Balkema, Rotterdam, 1983. 

Pawson, David L.; Miller, John E.; and Hoskin, C. M. "Distribution of 
Holothuria lentiginosa endois Miller and Pawson in Relation to a Deep 
Water Oculina coral Reef off Fort Pierce, Florida." In Echinoderms: Pro- 
ceedings of the International Conference, Tampa Bay, 1981, ed. John L. 
Lawrence. Balkema, Rotterdam, 1983. 

Rice, Mary E. "Sipuncula Oogenesis, Oviposition, and Oosorption." In Repro- 
ductive Biology of Invertebrates, vol. I, ed. K. G. Adiyodi and R. G. 
Adiyodi, pp. 283-96. London: John Wiley and Sons, 1982. 

Rice, Mary E.; Piraino, Julianne; and Reichardt, Hugh F. "Observations on 
the Ecology and Reproduction of the Sipunculan Phascolion cryptus in the 
Indian River Lagoon." Florida Scientist 46(3/4) (1983) :382-96. 

Ruppert, Edward E., and Rice, Mary E. "Structure, Ultrastructure, and Func- 
tion of the Terminal Organ of a Pelagosphera Larva (Sipuncula)." Zoo- 
morphology 102(1983) :143-63. 

Winston, Judith E. "Marine Bryozoans (Ectoprocta) of the Indian River Area 
(Florida)." Bulletin of American Museum of Natural History 173(2)(1982) : 
100-176. 

Office of Biological Conservation 

Ayensu, Edward S. [Introduction] Medicinal Plants of North Africa, by L. 
Boulos. Algonac, Mich.: Reference Publications, Inc., 1983. 

. "Food, Energy and Technology: Perspectives from Developing Coun- 
tries." In How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey, ed. D. Ortner, pp. 
263-87. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

"Arte Creado por la Naturaleza en la Corteza del Eucalipto." Ceo- 



mundo (February 1983) : 158-63. 

"Technological Innovations and the Third World Nations." In New 



Frontiers in Technology Application, ed. E. U. von Weizsacker; M. S. 
Swaminanthan; and A. Lemma, pp. 21-27. Dublin, Ireland: Tycooly Inter- 
national Publishing, Ltd., and United Nations, 1983. 
Myers, N., and Ayensu, Edward S. "Reduction of Biological Diversity and 
Species Loss." Amhio 12(2) (1983) :72-74. 

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

Aaronson, M.; Huchra, J.; Mould, J.; Tully, R. B.; Fisher, J. R.; van Woerden, 
H.; Goss, W. M.; Chamaraux, P.; Mebold, U.; Siegman, B.; Berriman, G.; 
and Persson, S. E. "A Distance Scale from the Infrared Magnitude/ H I 
Velocity-Width Relation"* IV. A Catalog of Data for Nearby Galaxies." 
Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 50(1982) :241. 

Apt, J.; Carleton, N. P.; and Mackay, C. D. "Methane on Triton and Pluto: 
New CCD Spectra." Astrophysical Journal 270(1983) :342. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 481 



Araki, 5., and Lightman, A. P. "Relativistic Thermal Plasmas: Effects of 
Magnetic Fields." Astrophysical Journal 269(1983) :49-56. 

Asaro, S., and Dalgarno, A. "Stieljes-Imaging Calculations of Photodissocia- 
tion." Journal of Chemical Physics 78(1983) :200-205. 

Avni, Y., and Tananbaum, H. "On the Cosmological Evolution of the X-Ray 
Emission from Quasars." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 262(1982) :L17. 

Baliunas, 5. L.; Blair, W. P.; and Guinan, E. F. "Observations of the RS 
CVn Star HD 26337 with the International Ultraviolet Explorer Satellite." 
Information Bulletin on Variable Stars 2323(1983). 

Baliunas, S. L.; Dupree, A. K.; and Guinan, E. F. "Lambda Andromedae." 
lAU Circular No. 3772 (1983). 

Baliunas, S. L.; Hartmann, L.; and Dupree, A. K. "Chromospheric and Cor- 
onal Emissions from the Giant Stars in the Hyades Cluster." Astrophysical 
Journal 271(1983) :672-80. 

Bartel, N.; Shapiro, I. I.; Corey, B. E.; Marcaide, J. M.; Rogers, A. E. E.; 
Whitney, A. R.; Cappallo, R. J.; Graham, D. A.; Romney, J. D.; and 
Preston, R. A. "Nucleus of M81: Simultaneous 2.3 and 8.3 GHz Mark III 
VLBI Observations." Astrophysical Journal 262(1982) :556. 

Bautz, M.; Howe, S.; Gorecki, A.; Lang, F.; Levine, A.; Primini, F. A.; and 
Lewin, W. H. G. "High-Energy X-Ray Observations of Vela X-1." Astro- 
physical Journal 266(1983) :794. 

Bechtold, J.; Forman, W.; Giacconi, R.; Jones, C; Schwarz, J.; Tucker, W.; 
and Van Speybroeck, L. "The X-Ray Morphology of Abell 1367." Astro- 
physical Journal 265(1983) :26-34. 

Beers, T. C; Huchra, J.; and Geller, M. J. "Galaxy Clusters with Multiple 
Components II. All5." Astrophysical Journal 264(1983) :356. 

Benson, P. J., and Myers, P. C. "Dense Cores in Dark Clouds. IV. HCbN 
Observations." Astrophysical Journal 270(1983) :589-604. 

Bienstock, S., and Dalgarno, A. "Mutual Neutralization and Chemi-Ioniza- 
tion Collisions of Lithium and Fluorine." Journal of Chemical Physics 78 
(1983) :224-28. 

Bienstock, S.; Heil, T. G.; and Dalgarno, A. "Charge Transfer of O** Ions in 
Collisions with Atomic Hydrogen." Physical Review A 27(1983) :2741 — 42. 

Blair, W. P.; Kirshner, R. P.; and Winkler, P. F. "The Extraordinary Extra- 
galactic Supernova Remnant in NGC 4449: II. X-Ray and Optical Investi- 
gations." Astrophysical Journal 272(1983) :84-91. 

Blair, W. P.; Raymond, J. C; and Dupree, A. K. "Observations of the May 
1979 Outburst of Centaurus X-4." In Advances in Ultraviolet Astronomy: 
Four Years of lUE Research, NASA Conference Publication 2238, ed. Y. 
Kondo, J. M. Mead, and R. D. Chapman, p. 558. Washington, D.C.: Na- 
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1982. 

Bothun, G. D.; Geller, M. J.; Beers, T. C; and Huchra, J. P. "The Cancer 
Cluster: An Unbound Collection of Groups." Astrophysical Journal 268 
(1983) :47. 

Brault, J. W., and Noyes, R. W. [Abstract] "Magnetically-Sensitive Solar 
Emission Lines near 12 Microns." Bulletin of the American Astronomical 
Society 15(1983) :702. 

. "Solar Emission Lines Near 12 Microns." Astrophysical Journal (Let- 
ters) 269(1983) :L61. 

Brown, J. M.; Schubert, J. E.; Evenson, K. M.; and Radford, H. E. "The Far- 
Infrared Spectrum of the OH Radical." Astrophysical Journal 258(1982): 
899-903. 



482 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Cassinelli, J. P.; Hartmann, L.; Sanders, W. T.; Dupree, A. K.; and Myers, 
R. W. "Simultaneous X-Ray and Ultraviolet Observations of e Ori and 
K Ori." Astrophysical Journal 268(1983) :205. 

Cawley, M. F.; Clear, J.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K.; Porter, N. A.; and Weekes, 
T. C. "The Whipple Observatory Camera for High Energy Gamma Ray 
Astronomy." In Proceedings of the International Workshop on Very High 
Energy Gamma Ray Astronomy, ed. P. V. Ramana Murthy and T. C. 
Weekes, pp. 292-94. Bombay, India: Tata Institute of Fundamental Re- 
search, 1982. 

Chaffee, F., and Latham, D. W. "An Image Stacker for High Resolution Spec- 
troscopy on the Multiple Mirror Telescope." Publications of the Astro- 
nomical Society of the Pacific 94(1982) :386-89. 

Chaffee, F. H., Jr.; Weymann, R. J.; Latham, D. W.; and Strittmatter, P. A. 
"High Resolution Spectroscopy of Selected Absorption Lines Toward 
Quasi-Stellar Objects I: Las Toward PHL 957." Astrophysical Journal 267 
(1982) :12-15. 

Chaffee, F. H., Jr.; Weymann, R. J.; Latham, D. W.; Wyatt, W. F.; and Field, 
G. B. [Abstract] "High Resolution Spectroscopy of the High Redshift QSO 
1159+124." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :908. 

Chaffee, F. H., Jr., and White, R. E. "A Survey of Interstellar Neutral Potas- 
sium I. Abundances and Physical Conditions in Clouds toward 188 Early- 
Type Stars." Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 50 (1982) :169-98. 

Chance, K. V., and Traub, W. A. "Q Branches in the Rotational Spectrum 
of HOCl." Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer 
29(1983) :81-84. 

. "The Torsional Spectrum of Chlorine Nitrate." Journal of Molecular 

Spectroscopy 92(1982) :306-12. 

Collura, A.; Serio, S.; Sciortino, S.; Vaiana, G. S.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Max- 
son, C. W.; and Rosner, R. [Abstract] "Variable X-Ray Emission from 
Early-Type Stars." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) : 
945., 

Cooper, D. L. "Ab Initio Spin-Orbit Coupling Constants for Potential Exotic 
Interstellar Molecules." Astrophysical Journal 265(1983) :808. 

. "Spin-Orbit Coupling and Spin Splitting in HeNe*." Journal of 

Chemical Physics 76(1982) :6443-44. 

"Spin-Orbit Coupling Constants for the ^E States of CH3O and 



CHaF*." journal of Chemical Physics 76(1982) :2765-66. 

-. "Spin Splitting in the X^2;+ State of MgH." Journal of Chemical 



Physics 76(1982) :3692-93. 

Cooper, D. L.; Black, J. H.; Everard, M. A. L.; and Richards, W. G. "A 
Theoretical Study of AlH*: Spin Splitting, Core Polarization and Inter- 
stellar Chemistry." Journal of Chemical Physics 78(1983) :1371. 

Cooper, D. L.; Hutson, J. M.; and Uzer, T. "Accidental Predissociation in 
Lithium Dimer: A Theoretical Investigation." Chemical Physics Letters 86 
(1982) : 472-76. 

Cooper, D. L.; Stutchbury, N. C. J.; and Richards, W. G. "Spin-Orbit Cou- 
pling Interaction in the ''■*-^n Phosphorescence of Formaldehyde." Journal 
of Chemical Physics 76(1982) :4671-72. 

Cooper, D. L., and Wilson, S. "Ab Initio Calculation of Atomic Spin-Orbit 
Coupling Constants Using a Universal Systematic Sequence of Even- 
Tempered Exponential Basis Functions." Journal of Physics B Bl5(1982): 
493-501. 

. "Ab Initio Calculation of Molecular Spin-Orbit Coupling Constants 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 483 



Using a Universal Even-Tempered Basis Set of Exponential Functions. 
Journal of Chemical Physics 76(1982) :6088-90. 

"Universal Even-Tempered Basis Sets of Negative Molecular Ions. 



Journal of Chemical Physics 78(1983) :2456. 

-. "Universal Systematic Sequences of Even-Tempered Basis Functions 



in Electronic Structure Studies of Negative Ions." Journal of Chemical 
Physics 77(1982) :4551-54. 

-. "Universal Systematic Sequence of Even-Tempered Exponential Func- 



tions in Electronic Structure Studies." Journal of Chemical Physics 77 
(1982) :5053-57. 

Cornell, J., and Gorenstein, P., eds. Astronomy from Space. Cambridge, Mass.: 
MIT Press, 1983. 

Dalgarno, A., and Sternberg, A. "The Excitation of the Triplet Lines of O^"^ 
in Nebulae." Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 200 
(1982) :77p-80p. 

Daniel, R. R.; Ghosh, S. K.; Iyengar, K. V. K.; Rengarajan, T. N.; Tandon, 
S. N.; and Verma, R. P. "Far-Infrared Brightness Temperature at Saturn's 
Disc and Its Rings." Icarus 49(1982) :205. 

Davis, M., and Huchra, J. "A Survey of Galaxy Redshifts III. The Density 
Field and the Induced Gravity Field." Astrophysical Journal 254(1982) :437. 

Davis, M.; Huchra, J.; Latham, D.; and Tonry, J. "A Survey of Galaxy Red- 
shifts II. The Large Scale Space Distribution." Astrophysical Journal 253 
(1982) :423. 

Davis, R., and Hartmann, L. "Constraints on the Inclination and Masses of 
the HDE 226868/Cygnus X-1 System from the Observations." Astrophysi- 
cal Journal 270(1983) :671-78. 

de Vegt, C; Kohoutek, I.; and Marsden, B. G. "Improved Orbital Elements 
for Periodic Comet Schorr." Astronomy and Astrophysics 114(1982) :147- 
50. 

Donahue, R. A.; Guinan, E. F.; and McCook, G. P. "Omega Orionis." lAU 
Circular No. 3779, 1983. 

Dorren, J. D., and Guinan, E. F. [Abstract] "A Photometric and UV Spectro- 
scopic Study of the Remarkable G8 III-IV + sd OB Eclipsing Binary FF 
Aqr." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :979. 

. "Evidence for Starspots on Single Solar-Like Stars." Astronomical 

Journal 87(1982) :1546. 

Dorren, J. D.; Guinan, E. F.; and McCook, G. P. [Abstract] "Analysis of the 
Light Curves of FK Comae with the Starspot Model." Bulletin of the Amer- 
ican Astronomical Society 14(1982) :634. 

. "Observation of Rapid Changes in the Light Curves of FK Comae." 

Information Bulletin on Variable Stars No. 2276, 1983. 

[Abstract] "Rapid Evolution of the Light Curve of FK Comae." 



Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :981. 

Dorren, J. D.; Guinan, E. F.; and Paczkowski, B. [Abstract] "Evolution and 
Analysis of the Complex Light Curves of ^ and Using the Starspot Model." 
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :634. 

Dorren, J. D.; Guinan, E. F.; and Siah, M. J. "Extreme Surface Activity on the 
Cool Component of the Eclipsing Binary FF Aquarii." Information Bulletin 
on Variable Stars No. 2305, 1983. 

Dorren, J. D.; Guinan, E. F.; and Sion, E. M. "An Ultraviolet Investigation of 
the Unusual Eclipsing Binary System FF Aqr." In Advances in UV Astron- 
omy: Four Years of lUE Research, NASA Conference Publication 2238, ed. 
Y. Kondo, J. M. Mead, and R. D. Chapman, p. 517. Washington, D.C.: 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1982. 

Doxsey, R.; Bradt, H.; McClintock, J.; Petro, L.; Remillard, R.; Ricker, G.; 
Schwartz, D.; and Wood, K. "H0323+022: A Puzzling High-Latitude X- 



484 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Ray/Optical/Radio Source." Astrophysical Journal (letters) 264(1983) :L43. 
Draine, B. T.; Roberge, W. G.; and Dalgarno, A. "Magnetohydrodynamic 

Shock Waves in Molecular Clouds." Astrophysical 'journal 264(1983) :485- 

507. 
Dupree, A. K. "Contact Binary Stars." In Proceedings of lAU Colloquium 

No. 71, Activity in Red Dwarf Stars, ed. P. J. Byrne and M. Rodono, p. 447. 

Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983. 
. "The Ultraviolet Sky." In Astronomy from Space, ed. J. Cornell and 

P. Gorenstein, pp. 116-40. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1983. 

"Ultraviolet Spectroscopy of Galactic X-Ray Sources." In Proceed- 



ings of NATO Advanced Study Institute on Galactic X-Ray Sources, ed. 
P. W. Sanford, P. Laskarides, and J. Salton, p. 269. New York: J. Wiley, 
1982. 

"X-Ray Observations." In Commission 36: Theory of Stellar Atmos- 



pheres, lAU Transactions XVlllA, p. 492. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel 
Publishing Company, 1983. 

Dupree, A. K., and Raymond, J. C. "Discovery of Highly Ionized Species in 
the Ultraviolet Spectrum of Feige 24." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 263 
(1982) :L63. 

Dupree, A. K., and Rosner, R. [Abstract] "Chromospheres and Coronae of 
Cool Stars." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :864. 

Einasto, J.; Corwin, H., Jr.; Huchra, J.; Miller, R. H.; and Tarenghy, M. 
"Local Cells of the Universe: Two Voids of Diameter 200 Mpc." In High- 
lights of Astronomy, ed. R. West, vol. 6, pp. 757-60. Dordrecht, Holland: 
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983. 

Elvis, M. "Quasars: Searching out the Smallest and Nearest." Nature 302 
(5910)(1983):661. 

Elvis, M.; Briel, U.; and Henry, J. P. "Extended Soft X-Ray Emission from 
NGC 4151." Astrophysical Journal 268(1983) :105. 

Elvis, M.; Soltan, A.; and Keel, W. [Abstract] "Very Low Luminosity Active 
Galaxies and the X-Ray Background." Bulletin of the American Astro- 
nom.ical Society 14(4) (1982) :933. 

Everhart, E., and Marsden, B. G. "New Original and Future Orbits." Astro- 
nomical Journal 88(1983) :135-37. 

Fabbiano, G. "X-Ray Observations of AM Her in Its Low State." Astrophysi- 
cal Journal 262(1982) :709. 

Fabbiano, G., and Panagia, N. "X-Ray and UV Observations of Extragalactic 
H II Regions." Astrophysical Journal 266(1983) :568. 

Fabbiano, G., and Trinchieri, G. "X-Ray Observations of the Antennae (NGC 
4038/39)." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 266(1983) :L5. 

Fabbiano, G.; Trinchieri, G.; and MacDonald, A. [Abstract] "X-Ray Observa- 
tions of Spiral Galaxies." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 
14(1982) :948. 

Fabricant, D., and Gorenstein, P. "Further Evidence for M87's Massive Dark 
Halo." Astrophysical Journal 267(1983) :535-46. 

Fanti, C; Fanti, R.; Feretti, L.; Gioia, I. M.; Giovannini, G.; Gregorini, L.; 
Marano, B.; Padrielli, L.; Parma, P.; Tomasi, P.; and Zitelli, V. "WSRT 
Radio Observations at 1.4 GHz of 32 Abell Clusters of Distance Class 3 
and 4." Astronomy and Astrophysics Supplement 51(1983) :179. 

. "WSRT Radio Observations at 1.4 GHz of 22 Abell Clusters of Dis- 
tance Class 5." Astronomy and Astrophysics Supplement 52(1983) :411-22. 

Fegan, D. J.; Porter, N. A.; and Weekes, T. C. "A Search for Periodicity in 
Gamma Rays from Cygnus X-3." In Proceedings of the International Work- 
shop on Very High Energy Gamma Ray Astronomy, ed. P. V. Ramana 
Murthy and T. C. Weekes, p. 267. Bombay, India: Tata Institute of Funda- 
mental Research, 1982. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 485 



Ferrari, A.; Rosrier, R.; and Vaiana, G. 5. "Magnetic Field-Related Heating 

Instabilities in the Surface Layers of the Sun and Stars." Astrophysical 

Journal 263(1982) :944-51. 
Fesen, R. A.; Blair, W. P.; and Kirshner, R. P. "Spectrophotometry of the 

Cygnus Loop." Astrophysical Journal 262(1982) :171. 
Field, G. B. "The Future of Space Astronomy." In Astronomy from Space, ed. 

J. Cornell and P. Gorenstein, pp. 192-212. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 

1983. 
Fireman, E. L. [Abstract] "Carbon-14 Ages of Antarctic Meteorites." Mete- 

oritics 17(4)(1982):212; also in Lunar and Planetary Science XIV(1)(1983) : 

195-96. 
Fireman, E. L., and Norris, T. L. "Ages and Composition of Gas Trapped in 

Allan Hills and Byrd Core Ice." Earth and Planetary Science Letters 60 

(1982) :339-50. 
Garcia, M.; Baliunas, S. L.; Doxsey, R.; Elvis, M.; Fabbiano, G.; Koenigs- 

berger, G.; Patterson, J.; Schwartz, D.; Swank, J.; and Watson, M. "Optical 

Identification and Properties of the M Giant/X-Ray System HD 154791 = 

2A 1704 + 241." Astrophysical Journal 267(1983) :291. 
Garrison, R.; Hiltner, W.; Krzeminski, W.; and Schild, R. [Abstract] "CPD 

-48 1577: The Brightest Known Cataclysmic Variable." Bulletin of the 

American Astronomical Society 14(1983) :978. 
Garrison, R.; Hiltner, W.; and Schild, R. "CPD-48 1577." lAU Circular No. 

3730, 1982. 
Garrison, R.; Schild, R.; and Hiltner, W. "Massive Eclipsing Binary Candi- 
dates." Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 52(1983) :1. 
Geller, M., and Huchra, J. "Groups of Galaxies III. The CFA Redshift Sur- 
vey." Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 52(1983) :61. 
Genzel, R.; Becklin, E. E.; Wynn-Williams, C G.; Moran, J. M.; Reid, M. J.; 

Jaffe, D. T.; and Downes, D. "Infrared and Radio Observations of W51: 

Another Orion-KL at a Distance of 7 kpc?" Astrophysical Journal 255 

(1982) :527-35. 
Genzel, R.; Reid, M. J.; Moran, J. M.; Downes, D.; and Ho, P. T. P. "Maser 

Sources in the Orion-KL Region." (Proceedings of the Symposium on the 

Orion Nebula to Honor Henry Draper.) Annals of the New York Academy 

of Sciences 395(1982) :142-53. 
Giampapa, M. S.; Golub, L.; and Worden, S. P. "The Magnetic Field on the 

RS Canum Venaticorum Star Lambda Andromedae." "Astrophysical Journal 

(Letters) 268(1983) :Ll21-Ll26. 
Gingerich, O. "Alfonsine Tables." In Dictionary of the Middle Ages, pp. 

159-60. New York: Scribners, 1982. 
. "Astrolabe." In Dictionary of the Middle Ages, pp. 602-4. New York: 

Scribners, 1982. 

[Astronomical Scrapbook] "Ancient Egyptian Sky Magic." Sky and 



Telescope 65(1983) :418-20. 

-. [Astronomical Scrapbook] "The Great Comet and the Carte." Sky 



and Telescope 64(1982) :237-39. 

[Astronomical Scrapbook] "The Great Comet that Never Came." Sky 



and Telescope 65(1983) :124-26. 

[Astronomical Scrapbook] "Ptolemy and the Maverick Motion of 



Mercury." Sky and Telescope 66(1983) :11-13. 

-. [Astronomical Scrapbook] "The Tower of the Winds and the Gre- 



gorian Calendar." Sky and Telescope 64(1982) :530-33. 

"Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin." Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astro- 



nomical Society 23(1982) :450-51. 
. "The Civil Reception of the Gregorian Calendar." In Gregorian Re- 



486 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



form of the Calendar, Proceedings of the Vatican Conference to Com- 
memorate its 400th Anniversary 1582-1982, ed. G. V. Coyne, M. A. Hoskin, 
and O. Pedersen, pp. 265-79. Vatican City: Pontifica Academia Scientiarum, 
1983. 

-. [Translation] "Kepler's New Astronomy Introduction," chapters 7 



and 59, and the resumes of chapters 39 and 40. In The Great Ideas Today 
1983, ed. R. M. Hutchins, M. J. Adler, and J. Van Doren, pp. 306-41. 
Chicago: Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1983. 

[Laboratory Exercise in Astronomy] "The Orbit of Mars." Sky and 



Telescope 66(1983) :300-302. 

'Let There Be Light: Modern Cosmogony and Biblical Creation." In 



Is Cod a Creationist?, ed. R. Frye, pp. 119-37. New York: Charles Scrib- 
ner's Sons, 1983. 

"Ptolemy, Copernicus, and Kepler." In The Great Ideas Today 1983, 



ed. R. M. Hutchins, M. J. Adler, and J. Van Doren, pp. 137-80. Chicago: 
Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1983. 

-. "Radio Astronomy and the Nature of Science." In The Early Years 



of Radio Astronomy, ed. W. T. Sullivan, pp. 399-407. London: Cambridge 

University Press, 1983. 
Gingerich, O., and Tresch-Feinberg, R. [Laboratory Exercise in Astronomy] 

"The Rotation of the Sun." Sky and Telescope 64(1982) :433-38. 
Gingerich, O., and Welther, B. "Planetary, Lunar and Solar Positions A.D. 

1650-A.D. 1800." Memoirs of the American Philosophical Society, vol. 59S 

(1983). 
Gioia, I. M.; Feigelson, E.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R.; and Zamorani, G. 

"VLA Observations of a Complete Sample of Extragalactic X-Ray Sources. 

II." Astrophysical Journal 271(1983) :524-30. 
Gioia, I. M.; Gregorini, L.; and Klein, U. "High Frequency Radio Continuum 

Observations of Bright Spiral Galaxies." Astronomy and Astrophysics 116 

(1982) :164. 
Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R.; and Zamorani, G. [Abstract] "VLA 

Observation of X-Ray Selected AGNs and Cluster of Galaxies." Bulletin of 

the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :910. 
Golub, L.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Maxson, C. W.; Rosner, R.; Vaiana, G. S.; 

Cash, W., Jr.; and Snow, T. P., Jr. "Einstein Observations of X-Ray 

Emission from A Stars." Astrophysical Journal 271(1983) :264-70. 
Golub, L.; Rosner, R.; Vaiana, G. S.; Zombeck, M. V.; Spiller, E.; and 

Wilczynski, J. [Abstract] "A Normal Incidence X-Ray Telescope for Solar 

Studies." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :976. 
Gorecki, A.; Levine, A. M.; Bautz, M.; Lang, F. L.; Primini, F. A.; Lewin, 

W. H. G.; Baity, W. A.; Gruber, D. E; and Rothschild, R. E. "HEAO-1 

Observations of the Long-Term Variability of Hercules X-1." Astrophysical 

Journal 256(1982) :234. 
Gorenstein, M. V.; Shapiro, I. I.; Cohen, N. L.; Corey, B. E.; Falco, E. E.; 

Marcaide, J. M.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Whitney, A. R.; Porcas, R. W.; Preston, 

R. A.; and Ruis, A. "Detection of a Compact Radio Source near the 

Center of a Gravitational Lens: Quasar Image or Galactic Core?" Science 

219(1983) :54-56. 

Gorenstein, P. "X-Rays Beyond the Milky Way." In Astronomy from Space, 
ed. J. Cornell and P. Gorenstein, pp. 171-92. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT 
Press, 1983. 

Gorenstein, P.; Fabricant, D.; and Rosner, R. [Abstract] "Search for Effects 
of an Intergalactic Medium Upon the Hot Intracluster Gas of A2256." 
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :905. 

Gorenstein, P., and Mauche, C. "High Throughput Non-Dispersive Hard 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 487 



X-Ray Spectrograph with Angular Resolution for Cosmic Bursts, Tran- 
sients, and Sources." IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science NS-30(1983) : 
491-98. 

Gorham, P. W.; Stenger, V. J.; and Weekes, T. C. "Very High Energy 
Gamma Ray Observations on SS433." In Proceedings of the International 
Workshop on Very High Energy Camma Ray Astronomy, ed. P. V. Ramana 
Murthy and T. C. Weekes, p. 288. Bombay, India: Tata Institute of Funda- 
mental Research, 1982. 

Green, R. F.; Bechtold, J.; Weymann, R. J.; and Chaffee, F. H. Jr. [Abstract] 
"Optical High Resolution and lUE Spectroscopy of Two Absorption Sys- 
tems toward QSO PG 1634+706." "Bulletin of the American Astronomical 
Society 14(1982) :908-9. 

Grossi, M. D. "Limitations Imposed by Ionospheric Turbulence on Satellite- 
to-Satellite Doppler Measurement Accuracy." Geophysical Research Letters 
9(10) (1982) :1183-86. 

Gruber, D. E., and Primini, F. A. "Hard X-Ray Observations of Fast Pulsars 
from HEAO-1." In Accreting Neutron Stars (Proceedings of a Workshop 
held at the Max-Planck-Institut fiir Extraterrestrische Physik), ed. W. 
Brinkmann and J. Trumper, p. 41. Garching, West Germany, 1982. 

Guinan, E. F.; Harris, C. C; and Maloney, F. P. [Abstract] "Evidence for a 
Ring System of Neptune." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 
14(1982) :658. 

Guinan, E. F., and lanna, P. A. "The Distance, Space Motions and Revised 
Absolute Parameters of R. Canis Majoris." Astronomical Journal 88(1983) : 
126. 

Guinan, E. F.; McCook, G. P.; and Weisenberger, A. G. "The Serendipitous 
Discovery of Two New Bright Variable Stars in the Field of HD 108." 
Information Bulletin on Variable Stars No. 2227, 1982. 

Guinan, E. F., and Sion, E. M. "High Velocity Gas Outflow from the Nova- 
Like Variable LSI 55-8." In Advances in UV Astronomy : Four Years of lUE 
Research, NASA Conference Publication 2238, ed. Y. Kondo, J. M. Mead, 
and R. D. Chapman, p. 465. Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration, 1982. 

Guinan, E. F.; Tomczyk, S.; and Turnshek, D. J. "Narrow- and Intermediate- 
Band Ha and O I X7774 Photometry and Reticon Spectroscopy of SX 
Cassiopeiae." Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 95 
(1983) :364-67. 

Habbal, S. R., and Tsinganos, K. C. "Multiple Transonic Solutions with a 
New Class of Shock Transitions in Steady Isothermal Solar and Stellar 
Winds." Journal of Geophysical Research 88(A3)(1983) :1965. 

. [Abstract] "Stellar Winds with Multiple Critical Points and Shock 

Transitions." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(2)(1982): 
608. 

Habbal, S. R.; Tsinganos, K.; and Rosner, R. [Abstract] "Time Evolution of 
the Solar Wind Flow with Momentum Addition and the Formation of 
Standing Shocks." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(4) 
(1982) :939. 

Haisch, B. M.; Linsky, J. L.; Bornman, P. L.; Stencel, R. E.; Antiochos, S. K.; 
Golub, L.; and Vaiana, G. S. "Coordinated EINSTEIN and lUE Observa- 
tions of a Disparition Brusque Type Flare Event and Quiescent Emission 
from Proxima Centauri." Astrophysical Journal 267(1982) .-280. 

Harnden, F. R., Jr., and Seward, F. D. [Abstract] "Further Einstein Results 
for the New Circinus Pulsar (PSR 1509-58)." Bulletin of the American 
Astronomical Society 14(1983) :966. 



488 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Harris, D. E. "A Preliminary Examination of the Effect of Cluster Gas on 
Tailed Radio Galaxies." In Proceedings of lAU Symposium No. 97, Extra- 
galactic Radio Sources, ed. D. S. Heeschen and C. M. Wade, pp. 77-83. 
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1982. 

Harris, D. E.; Dewdney, P. E.; Costain, C. H.; Butcher, H.; and Willis, A. G. 
"Discovery of a Quasar with a Wide Angle Radio Tail in a Distant Cluster 
of Galaxies." Astrophysical Journal 270(1983) :39-47. 

Harris, D. E.; Robertson, J. G.; Dewdney, P. E.; and Costain, C. H. "Radio 
and X-Ray Galaxies in Abell 566." Astronomy and Astrophysics 3(1982) : 
299. 

Hartmann, L. [Invited review] "Cool Star Winds — Recent Observations and 
Theoretical Implications." (Joint Discussion on Mass Loss, lAU General 
Assembly). Highlights of Astronomy 6(1983) :5i9. 

. [Invited review] "lUE Observations of Cool Stars." Advances in 

Space Research 9(9) (1983) :29-37. 

Hartmann, L.; Edwards, S.; and Avrett, E. H. "Wave-Driven Winds from 
Cool Stars. II. Models for T Tauri Stars." Astrophysical Journal 261(1982): 
279-92. 

Harwit, M.; Kurtz, N.; Melnick, G.; Russell, R.; and Symers, S. "The 157 
|,im [C II] Emission from NGC 2024 — Core and Halo Components." Astro- 
physical Journal 264(1983) :538. 

Haschick, A. D.; Moran, J. M.; Rodriguez, L. F.; and Ho, P. T. P. "Water- 
Vapor Masers Located near Herbig-Haro Objects." Astrophysical Journal 
265(1983) :281-89. 

Heil, T. G.; Butler, S. E.; and Dalgarno, A. "Charge Transfer of Doubly 
Charged and Trebly Charged Ions with Atomic Hydrogen at Thermal 
Energies." Physical Review A 27(1983) :2365-83. 

Heil, T. G.; Green, S.; and Dalgarno, A. "Proton-Induced Fine-Structure 
Transitions in O IV." Physical Review A 26(1982) :3293-98. 

Heil, T. G.; Kirby, K.; and Dalgarno, A. "Proton Excitation of Fine-Structure 
Transitions in Fe XIV." Physical Review A 27(1983) :2826-30. 

Herring, T. A.; Corey, B. E.; Counselman, C. C. Ill; Shapiro, I. I.; Rogers, 
A. E. E.; Whitney, A. R.; Clark, T. A.; Knight, C. A.; Ma, C; Ryan, J. W.; 
Schupler, B. R.; Vandenberg, N. R.; Ronnang, B. O.; Lundquist, G.; El- 
gered, G.; Campbell, J.; and Aichards, P. "Determination of Tidal Param- 
eters from VLBI Observations." In Proceedings of the Ninth International 
Symposium on Earth Tides, ed. J. T. Kuo, pp. 205-14. E. Schweizerbart'sche 
Verlagsbuchhandlung, Publishers, 1982. 

Herter, T.; Heifer, H. L.; Pipher, J. L.; Briotta, D. A., Jr.; Forrest, W. J.; 
Houck, J. R.; Rudy, R. J.; and Willner, S P. "Abundances in Five Nearby 
Galactic H II Regions from Infrared Forbidden Lines." Astrophysical 
Journal 262(1982) :153. 

Ho, P. T. P.; Haschick, A. D.; Moran, J. M.; and Rodriguez, L. F. [Abstract] 
"Position Measurements of H2O Masers Associated with Herbig Haro 
Objects." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :927. 

Ho, P. T. P.; Moran, J. M.; and Rodriguez, L. F. "Mass Outflow in Star For- 
mation Regions: Cepheus A." Astrophysical Journal 262(1982) :619-35. 

Huchra, J. P. "The Dynamics of the Local Supercluster." In Highlights of 
Astronomy, ed. R. M. West, vol. 6, pp. 749-50. Dordrecht, Holland: D. 
Reidel Publishing Company, 1983. 

Huchra, J.; Davis, M.; Latham, D.; and Tonry, J. "A Survey of Galaxy Red- 
shifts IV. The CFA Redshift Survey." Astrophysical Journal Supplement 
Series 52(1983) :89-119. 

Huchra, J., and Geller, M. "Groups of Galaxies I. Nearby Groups." Astro- 
physical Journal 257(1982) :423. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 489 



Huchra, J.; Wyatt, W.; and Davis, M. "New Bright Seyfert Galaxies." Astro- 
nomical Journal 87(1982) :1628. 

Johnston, K. J.; Elvis, M.; Kjer, D.; and Shen, B. S. P. "Radio Jets in NGC 
4151." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 262(1982) :L61. 

Jull, A. J. T.; Zabel, T. H.; Donahue, D. J.; and Fireman, E. L. [Abstract] 
"Application of Accelerator Mass Spectrometry to the Measurement of "C 
in Meteorites." Lunar and Planetary Science XIV(1)(1983) :359-60. 

Kalkofen, W., and Wehrse, R. "Radiative Transfer: Analytic Solution of Dif- 
ference Equations." Astronomy and Astrophysics 108(1982) :42. 

. "Radiative Transfer: Comparison of Finite Difference Equations." 

Astronomy and Astrophysics 110(1982) :18-22. 

Kallne, E. "New Approaches in Analysis of Soft X-Rays Using Gratings." 
Nuclear Instrumentation and Methods 195(1982) :105-13. 

Kallne, E.; Dijkstra, J. H.; Bartlett, R.; Kitchens, T.; Tatchyn, R. O.; Hecht, 
M.; and Lindau, I. "Analysis of the Throughput of a Grazing Incidence 
Monochromator Using Transmission Gratings." In Reflecting Optics for 
Synchrotron Radiation, ed. M. R. Howells, SPIE vol. 315, pp. 178-84. So- 
ciety of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1982. 

Kallne, E., and Kallne, J. "High Resolution X-Ray Spectroscopy for Diag- 
nostics of Single Tokamak Discharges." Physica Scripta T3(1983) :185. 

. "X-Ray Diagnostics of Tokamak Plasmas." In International Confer- 
ence on X-Ray and Atomic Physics, AIP Conference Proceedings No. 94, 
pp. 463-79. New York: American Institute of Physics, 1982. 

Kallne, E.; Kallne, J.; and Pradhan, A. K. "X-Ray Emission from He-Like 
n=2 Charge States Produced in Tokamak Plasmas." Physical Review A 
27(1983) :1476-86. 

Kallne, E.; Kallne, J.; and Rice, J. E. [Abstract] "Doppler Measurements of 
X-Ray Lines at the Alcator C Tokamak." Bulletin of the American Physical 
Society 27(1982) :938. 

. "Observation of H- and He-Like X-Ray Line Emission in High 

Density Tokamak Plasmas." Physical Review Letters 92(1982) :330-33. 

Kallne, J.; Kallne, E.; Atencio, L. G.; Morris, C. L.; and Thompson, A. C. 
"Multiwire Proportional Counter for Soft X-Ray Detection." Nuclear In- 
strumentation and Methods 203(1982) :415-18. 

Kallne, J.; Kallne, E.; Morris, C. L.; and Atencio, L. G. [Abstract] "Analysis 
of Soft X-Rays Using Simple Multiwire Detectors." Bulletin of the Ameri- 
can Physical Society 27(1982) :826. 

Kallne, J.; Kallne, E.; and Pradhan, A. K. "X-Ray Line Intensities for Ions of 
the Helium Isoelectronic Sequence in High Temperature Plasmas." Physical 
Review A 28(1983) :l-4. 

King, D., and Gingerich, O. "Some Astronomical Observations from Thir- 
teenth-Century Egypt." Journal of the History of Astronomy 13(1982) :121- 
28. 

Kohl, J. L.; Weiser, H.; Withbroe, G. L.; and Munro, R. H. [Abstract] "New 
Observations of the Extended Ultraviolet Corona." Bulletin of the Ameri- 
can Astronomical Society 14(1983) :976. 

Kwong, H. S.; Johnson, B. C; Smith, P. L.; and Parkinson, W. H. "The 
Transition Probability of the Si III 189.2 nm Intersystem Line." Physical 
Review A 27(1983) :3040. 

Kurtz, M. J. "Automatic Spectral Classification." Bulletin d'Information du 
Centre de Donnees Stellaires 23(1982) :13. 

Lamb, D. Q. "Surface and Magnetospheric Physics of Neutron Stars and 
Gamma-Ray Bursts." In Proceedings of AIP Conference No. 77, Gamma 
Ray Transients and Related Astrophysical Phenomena, ed. R. E. Lingen- 



490 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



felter, H. S. Hudson, and D. M. Worrall, pp. 249-72. New York: American 
Institute of Physics, 1982. 

"X-Ray Emission from Cataclysmic Variables." In Proceedings of 



lAU Colloquium No. 72, Cataclysmic Variables and Related Objects, ed. 
M. Livio and G. Shaviv, pp. 299-322. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Pub- 
lishing Company, 1983. 

Lamb, D. Q., and Patterson, J. "Spin-Up and Magnetic Fields in DQ Her 
Stars." In Proceedings of lAU Colloquium No. 72, Cataclysmic Variables 
and Related Objects, ed. M. Livio and G. Shaviv, pp. 229-37. Dordrecht, 
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983. 

Langhoff, S. R.; van Dishoeck, E. F.; Westmore, R.; and Dalgarno, A. "Radi- 
ative Lifetimes and Dipole Moments of the A^-^ B"-*, and C^2+." Journal 
of Chemical Physics 77(1982) :1379-90. 

Latham, D. W. "Astronomical Photography." McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of 
Science and Technology, 5th ed. (1982) :787-90. 

. "Solid State Imagers for Astronomy." In Proceedings of lAU Collo- 
quium No. 67, Instrumentation for Astronomy with Large Telescopes, ed. 
C. Humphries, p. 245. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 
1982. 

'Spectroscopy with Photon-Counting Reticons." In Proceedings of 



lAU Colloquium No. 67, Instrumentation for Astronomy with Large Tele- 
scopes, ed. C. Humphries, p. 259. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing 
Company, 1982. 

Latham, D., and Stefanik, R. [Abstract] "Digital Stellar Speedometry." Bulle- 
tain of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :612. 

Liebert, J.; Stocke, J.; Maccacaro, T.; Gioia, I. M.; Griffiths, R.; and Dan- 
ziger, J. [Abstract] "The Einstein Observatory Medium Sensitivity X-Ray 
Survey: The Range of Individual Identifications." Publications of the Astro- 
nomical Society of the Pacific 94(1982) :748. 

Lightman, A. P. "Luminosity Evolution of Quasars and Active Galaxies." In 
Active Galactic Nuclei, Compte-Rendu d'Ecole de Goutelas 1981, ed. E. 
Schatzman, chap. 6. Meudon, France: LAM Observatoire de Meudon, 1982. 

. "Relativistic Plasmas." In Active Galactic Nuclei, Compte-Rendu 

d'Ecole de Goutelas 1981, ed. E. Schatzman, chap. 5. Meudon, France: LAM 
Observatoire de Meudon, 1982. 

-. "X-Rays from Quasars and Active Galaxies." Space Science Review 



33(1982) :335. 

Lightman, A. P., and Grindlay, J. E. "What's Happening in the Cores of 
Globular Clusters?" Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 263(1982) :L19. 

. "X-Ray Illumination of Globular Cluster Puzzles." Astrophysical 

Journal 262(1982) :145-52. 

Lo, K. Y.; Cohen, M. H.; Backer, D. C; and Moran, J. M. [Abstract] "VLBI 
Observations of the Galactic Center at 2.8 and 1.3 cm." Bulletin of the 
American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :950. 

Maccacaro, T.; Avni, Y.; Gioia, I. M.; Giommi, P.; Griffiths, R. E.; Liebert, 
J.; Stocke, J.; and Danziger, J. "The Cosmological Evolution and Lumi- 
nosity Function of X-Ray Selected AGNs." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 
266(1983) :L73. 

Maccacaro, T.; Maccagni, D.; and Tarenghi, M. [Abstract] "X-Ray Observa- 
tions of BL Lac Objects." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 
14(1982) :933. 

Maker, S., and Kurtz, M. J. "The Graphlib***: GRAPH Package." Kiewit 
Computation Center Special Publication 204(1983). 

Marcaide, J. M.; and Shapiro, I. I. "High Precision Astrometry via Very- 
Long-Baseline Radio Interf erometry : Estimate of the Angular Separation 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 491 



between the Quasars 1038+528 A and B." Astronomical Journal 88(1983) : 
1133-37. 

Marsden, B. G. "Annual Report of the Minor Planet Center." International 
Astronomical Union Information Bulletin 48(1982) :52-53. 

. "Annual Report of the Minor Planet Center." International Astro- 
nomical Union Information Bulletin 50(1983) :9-10. 

"Annual Report of the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams." 



International Astronomical Union Information Bulletin 48(1982) :50-51. 

"Annual Report of the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams." 



International Astronomical Union Information Bulletin 50(1983) :8-9. 
. "How to Reduce Plate Measurements." Sky and Telescope 64(1982): 



284. 

. (editor and contributor.) lAU Circular nos. 3759-3872, 1983. 

. "Observations of Minor Planets and Comets." Minor Planet Center 



(1983), 310,000 entries. 

-. (editor and contributor.) Minor Planet Circular nos. 7515-8182, 1983. 



Marsden, B. G., and Green, D. W. E. "A Comet in a Million." Sky and Tele- 
scope 63(1982) :366-67. 

. "1983d: May's Surprise Comet." Sky and Telescope 66(1983) :26-29. 

Marshall, H. L.; Avni, Y.; Tananbaum, H., and Zamorani, G. "Analysis of 
Complete Quasar Samples to Obtain Parameters of Luminosity and Evolu- 
tion Functions." Astrophysical Journal 269(1983) :35-41. 

Marshall, F.; Grindlay, J.; Harnden, F.; Eisner, R.; and Weisskopf, M. 
[Abstract] "X-Ray Observations of the Millisecond Pulsar." Bulletin of the 
American Physical Society 28(4) (1983) :723. 

Marshall, H. L.; Tananbaum, H.; Zamorani, G.; Huchra, J. P.; Braccesi, A.; 
and Zitelli, V. "Optical and X-Ray Observations of Faint Quasars in an 
Optically Selected Sample." Astrophysical Journal 269(1983) :42-48. 

Marvin, U. B. "Epilogue: The , Rediscovery of Earth." In Astronomy from 
Space, ed. J. Cornell and P. Gorenstein, pp. 213-42. Cambridge, Mass.: 
MIT Press, 1983. 

. "Extraterrestrials Have Landed on Antarctica." New Scientist 97 

(1349) (1983) :710-15. 

. "Granite House: 1911-1981." Antarctic Journal of the United States 



XVIII(1)(1983):15-19. 

-. "67015: A KREEPy Breccia from North Ray Center." Lunar and 



Planetary Science XIII(1982) :647-48. 

"The Meteorite Placer Deposits of Antarctica." Episodes (Magazine 



of the International Union of Geological Sciences, Ottawa Secretariat, 
Canada) 3(1982) :10-15. 

Marvin, U. B., and Lindstrom, M. M. "Rock 67015 : A Feldspathic Fragmental 
Breccia with KREEP-Rich Melt Clasts." Journal of Geophysical Research 
88(A) (1983) :A659-A670. 

Matveyenko, L. I.; Moran, J. M.; and Genzel, R. "The H2O Maser Flare in 
Orion A." Pis'ma Astron. Zh. 8(1982) :711-13. 

McBreen, B.; Loughran, L.; Fazio, G. G.; Maxson, C. W.; Serio, S.; and 
Sciortino, S. [Abstract] "Multicolor Far-Infrared Observations of NGC 
6334." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1983) :931. 

McGill, G. E.; Warner, J. L.; Maline, M. C; Arvidson, R. E.; Eliason, E.; 
Nozette, S.; and Reasenberg, R. D. "Topography, Surface Properties, and 
Tectonic Evolution." In Venus, ed. D. M. Hunten, L. Colin, T. M. Donahue, 
and V. I. Moroz, pp. 69-130. Tucson: University of Arizona Press, 1983. 

Melnick, G.; Russell, R. W.; Gosnell, T. R.; and Harwit, M. "Spectrophotom- 
etry of Saturn and Its Rings from 60 to 180 Microns." Icarus 53(1983) :310. 

Meszaros, P. [Invited review] "Radiation from Accretion Columns." In Ac- 



492 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



creting Neutron Stars, International Workshop on Accreting Neutron Stars, 
MPE Report 177, ed. W. Brinkmann and J. Trumper, p. 253. Garching, West 
Germany: Max-Planck-Institut Extraterrestrische Physik, 1982. 

Meszaros, P.; Harding, A. K.; Kirk, J. G.; and Galloway, D. "Accreting X- 
Ray Pulsar Atmospheres Heated by Coulomb Deceleration of Protons." 
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 266(1983) :L33. 

Miley, G. K.; Norman, C.; Silk, J.; and Fabbiano, G. "X-Ray Observations 
of Radio-Jet Galaxies." Astronomy and Astrophysics 122(1983) :330. 

Moran, J. M.; Garay, G.; Reid, M. J.; Genzel, R.; and Ho, P. T. P. "Compact 
Continuum Radio Sources in the Orion Nebula." Annals of the New York 
Academy of Sciences 395(1982) :204-9. 

Morgan, S. H.; Nein, M. E.; Davis, B. G.; Hamilton, E. C; Roberts, D. H.; 
and Traub, W. A. "Concepts for Large Interferometers in Space." In The 
Next 30 Years, AIAA/SPIE OSA Technology for Space Astrophysics Con- 
ference, pp. 78-87. New York: American Institute of Aeronautics and 
Astronautics, 1982. 

Murphy, H. P.; Schild, R. E.; and Weekes, T. C. "CCD Camera Observations 
of Nearly Rich Clusters I. R Photometry of Brightest Galaxies." Monthly 
Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 202(1982) :H27. 

Myers, P. C. "Dense Cores in Dark Clouds. III. Subsonic Turbulence." Astro- 
physical Journal 270(1983) :105. 

. "Low Mass Star Formation in the Dense Interior of Barnard 18." 

Astrophysical Journal 257(1982) :620. 

Myers, P. C, and Barrett, A. H. "Search for Maser Emission by Water Vapor 
in the vi Excited Vibrational State." Astrophysical Journal 263(1982) :716. 

Myers, P. C, and Benson, P. J. "Dense Cores in Dark Clouds. II. NHa Obser- 
vations and Star Formation." Astrophysical Journal 266(1983) :309. 

Myers, P. C; Linke, R. A.; and Benson, P. J. "Dense Cores in Dark Clouds. 
I. CO Observations and Column Densities of High-Extinction Regions." 
Astrophysical Journal 264(1983) :517. 

Nisenson, P.; Apt. J.; Goody, R.; and Papaliolios, C. "Speckle Imaging for 
Planetary Research." Icarus 53(1983) :465. 

Nolan, P. L.; Gruber, D. E.; Knight, F. K.; Matteson, J. L.; Peterson, L. E.; 
Levine, A. M.; Lewin, W. H. G.; and Primini, F. A. "Observations of 12- 
200 keV X-Rays from GX 339-4." Astrophysical Journal 262(1982) :727. 

Noyes, R. W. "Magnetic Activity and Rotation in the Sun and Stars." In 
Physics of the Sun, Transactions of the International Astronomical Union, 
XVIIIA(1982) :100-104. 

. "The Relation Between Rotation and Magnetic Activity on Lower 

Main Sequence Stars as Derived from Chromospheric Indicators." In Pro- 
ceedings of International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 102, Origins 
and Coronal Effects, ed. J. Stenflo, pp. 133-47. Dordrecht, Holland: D. 
Reidel Publishing Company, 1983. 

The Sun: Our Star. Harvard Books on Astronomy. Cambridge, Mass.: 



Harvard University Press, 1982. 
Noyes, R. W.; Baliunas, S. L.; Duncan, D. K.; Hartmann, L. W.; and 
Vaughan, A. H. [Abstract] "Rotation Convection, and Solar-Stellar Dyna- 
mos." "Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 15(1983) :698. 

Ostro, S. J.; Campbell, D. B.; and Shapiro, I. I. "Radar Observations of 
Asteroid 1685 Toro." Astronomical Journal 88(1983) :565-76. 

Owocki, S. P.; Newkirk, G. N.; and Sime, D. G. "Radar Studies of the Non- 
Spherically Symmetric Solar Corona." Solar Physics 78(1982) :317. 

Owocki, S. P., and Rybicki, G. [Abstract] "The Stability of Line-Radiation- 
Driven Stellar Winds. Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14 
(1983) :920. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 493 



Owocki, 5. P., and Scudder, J. D. "The Effect of a Non-Maxwellian Electron 
Distribution on Oxygen and Iron Ionization Balances in the Solar Corona." 
Astrophysical Journal 270(1983) :758-68. 

Palla, F.; Salpeter, E. E.; and Stahler, S. W. "Primordial Star Formation: The 
Role of Molecular Hydrogen." Astrophysical Journal 271(1983) :632-41. 

Pallavicini, R.; Peres, G.; Serio, S.; Vaiana, G. S.; Acton, L.; Leibacher, J.; 
and Rosner, R. "Closed Coronal Structures: V. Gasdynamic Models of 
Flaring Loops and Comparison with SMM Observations." Astrophysical 
Journal 270(1983) :270-87. 

Papaliolios, C; Nisenson, P.; Apt, J.; and Goody, R. "Speckle Imaging for 
Planetary Research." /carus 53(1983) :465. 

Patterson, J. [Abstract] "How to Drive Mass Transfer in Compact Binaries." 
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1983) :902. 

. "H2215-086, King of the DQ Herculis Stars." Astrophysical Journal 

(Letters) 264(1982) :L61. 

Patterson, J.; Roberts, W.; Schwartz, D. A.; Remillard, R.; Morgan, E.; and 
Bradt, H. [Abstract] "New Optical Identification of X-Ray Sources from 
the HEAO A-3 Scanning Modulation Collimator." Bulletin of the Ameri- 
can Astronomical Society 15(1983) :636. 

Patterson, J.; Schwartz, D. A.; Bradt, H.; Remillard, R.; McHardy, I. I.; Pye, 
J. P.; Williams, G.; Fesen, R. A.; and Szkody, P. [Abstract] "Identification 
of the Bright X-Ray Source 3A1148+719 with the Cataclysmic Variable 
YY Draconis." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :618. 

Posen, A. G.; Dalgarno, A.; and Peek, J. M. "The Quadrupole Vibration- 
Rotation Transition Probabilities of the Molecular Hydrogen Ion." Atomic 
Data and Nuclear Data Tables 28(1983) :265-77. 

Pryor, C, and Lecar, M. "Can Secondary Infall Produce Flat Rotation 
Curves?" Astrophysical Journal 269(1983) :513-30. 

Radford, H. E.; Wayne, F. D.; and Brown, J. M. "Far Infrared Laser Magnetic 
Resonance Spectra of the CISO and FSO Radicals in the Gas Phase." 
Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 99(1983) :209-20. 

Radick, R. R.; Hartmann, L.; Mihalas, D.; Worden, S. P.; Africano, J. L.; 
Kline, A.; and Tyson, E. T. "The Photometric Variability of Solar-Type 
Stars. I. Preliminary Results for the Pleiades, Hyades, and Malmquist 
Field." Astronomical Journal 94(1982) :934. 

Ramana Murthy, P. V., and Weekes, T. C, eds. Proceedings of the Inter- 
national Workshop on Very High Energy Gamma Ray Astronomy (Ootaca- 
mund, India). Bombay, India: Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, 
1982. 

Ratner, M. I.; Bartel, N.; Corey, B. E.; and Shapiro, I. I. [Abstract] "Con- 
straints on Component Proper Motion for 3C345." Bulletin of the American 
Astronomical Society 14(1982) :964. 

Raymond, J. C. "Highly Stripped Ions in Everyday Astrophysics." Nuclear 
Instrumentation and Methods 202(1982) :393. 

Readhead, A. C. S.; Masson, C. R.; Moffet, A. T.; Pearson, T. J.; Seielstad, 
G. A.; Woody, D. P.; Backer, D. C; Plambeck, R. L.; Welch, W. J.; Wright, 
M. C. H.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Webber, J. C; Shapiro, I. I.; Moran, J. M.; 
Goldsmith, P. F.; Predmore, C. R.; Baath, L.; and Ronnang, B. "Very Long 
Baseline Interferometry at a Wavelength of 3.4 Millimeters." Nature 303 
(1983) :504-6. 

Reasenberg, R. D. "Present State of the Experimental Verification of the 
Four-Dimensional General Theory of Relativity." (A series of 3 lectures 
presented at the Ettoro Majorana Center for Scientific Culture, Interna- 
tional School of Cosmology and Gravitation, Eighth Course, 20 May to 1 
June 1982). In Unified Field Theories of More than 4 Dimensions Includ- 



A94: I Smithsonian Year 1983 



ing Exact Solutions, ed. E. Schmutzer and V. deSabbata, pp. 19-68. World 
Scientific Publishing, 1983. 

-. "The Solar System. A Cluttered Laboratory for Gravity Research. 



(International Centre for Theoretical Physics, Trieste, Italy, July 1979.) In 
Proceedings of the Second Marcel Grossmann Meeting on General Rela- 
tivity, ed. R. Ruffini, pp. 1019-38. Amsterdam: North-Holland Publishing 
Company, 1982. 

Reasenberg, R. D.; Anderson, J. D.; DeBra, D. B.; Shapiro, I. I.; Ulrich, R. K.; 
and Vessot, R. F. C. "Report of the STARPROBE Ad Hoc Gravity and 
Relativity Committee." In Star Probe Scientific Rationale, Jet Propulsion 
Laboratory Publication 82-49, ed. J. H. Underwood and J. E. Randloph. 
Pasadena, Calif.: Jet Propulsion Laboratory, 1982. 

Reasenberg, R. D., and Bills, B. G. "Critique of 'Elastic Thickness of the 
Venus Lithosphere Estimated from Topography and Gracity' by A. Caze- 
nave and K. Dominh." Geophysical Research Letters 10(1983) :93-96. 

Reasenberg, R. D.; Goldberg, Z. M.; and Shapiro, I. I. "Venus: Comparison 
of Gravity and Topography in the Vicinity of Beta Regio." Geophysical 
Research Letters 9(1982) :637-40. 

Reasenberg, R. D., and Shapiro, I. I. "An Optical Interferometer in Earth 
Orbit for Testing General Relativity." In Space Relativity, Proceedings of 
the 5th International Symposium on Space Relativity (Dubrovnik, October 
1978), ed. W. Wrigley. Acta Astronautica 9(1982) :103-6. 

. "Terrestrial and Planetary Relativity Experiments. In Proceedings on 

the Ninth Conference on General Relativity and Gravitation (Friedrich 
Schiller University, Jena, West Germany, July 1980), ed. E. Schmutzer, pp. 
149-64. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1983. 

Reasenberg, R. D.; Shapiro, I. I.; Goldstein, R. B.; and MacNeil, P. E. "New 
Results from the Viking Relativity Experiment." In Space Relativity, Pro- 
ceedings of the 5th International Symposium on Space Relativity (Dubrov- 
nik, October 1978), ed. W. Wrigley. Acta Astronautica 9(1982) : 91-94. 

Reid, M. J.; Schmitt, J.; Owen, F. N.; Booth, R. S.; Wilkinson, P. N.; Shaffer, 

D. B.; Johnston, K. J.; and Hardee, P. F. "VLBI Observations of the Nu- 
cleus and Jet of M87." Astrophysical Journal 263(1982) -.615. 

Remillard, R.; Bradt, H.; Matthews, A.; Roberts, W.; Warvel, J.; Patterson, 
J.; and Schwartz, D. [Abstract] "Identifications of Southern X-Ray Sources 
with the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator." "Bulletin of the 
American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :891. 

Rengarajan, T. N., and Verma, R. P. [Abstract] "X-Ray Emission from RS 
CVn Binaries." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) : 
981. 

. "X-Ray Emission from RS CVn Binaries." Monthly Notices of the 

Royal Astronomical Society 203(1983) :1035. 

Robertson, D. S.; Carter, W. E.; King, R. W.; Langley, R. B.; Morgan, P. J.; 
Shapiro, I. I.; Tapley, B. D.; Schutz, B. E.; and Eanes, R. J. "Comparison 
of Pole Position and UTl Determinations from Radio Interferometric, 
Satellite Laser and Lunar Laser Observations." Nature 302(1983) :510. 

Rodriguez, L. F.; Canto, J.; and Moran, J. M. "Radio Sources of NGC 6334." 
Astrophysical Journal 255(1982) :103-10. 

Rodriguez, L. F.; Carral, P.; Ho, P. T. P.; and Moran, J. M. "Anisotropic 
Mass Outflow in Regions of Star Formation." Astrophysical Journal 260 
(1982) :635-46. 

Rodriguez, L. F., and Moran, J. M. "Neutral Hydrogen Associated with the 

Planetary Nebula NGC 6302." Nature 229(1982) :323-25. 
Rogers, A. E. E.; Cappallo, R. J.; Hinteregger, H. F.; Levine, J. I.; Nesman, 

E. F.; Webber, J. C; Whitney, A. R.; Clark, T. A.; Ma, C; Ryan, J. W.; 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 495 



Corey, B. E.; Couselman, C. C; Herring, T. A.; Shapiro, I. I.; Knight, C. A.; 

Shaffer, D. B.; Vandenberg, N. R.; Lacasse, R.; Mauzy, R.; Rayhrer, B.; 

Schupler, B. R.; and Pigg, J. C. "Very-Long-Baseline Radio Interf erometry : 

The Mark III System for Geodesy, Astrometry, and Aperture Synthesis." 

Science 219(1983) :51-54. 
Rudy, R. J.; Jones, B.; LeVan, P. D.; Puetter, R. C; Smith, H. E.; Willner, 

S. P.; and Tokunaga, A. T. "Near-Infrared Spectrophotometry of Four Sey- 

fert I Galaxies and NGC 1275." Astrophysical Journal 257(1982) :570. 
Rudy, R. J.; LeVan, P. D.; Puetter, R. C.; Smith, H. E.; and Willner, S. P. 

"Infrared Polarimetry of Nine Seyfert Galaxies." Astrophysical Journal 253 

(1982) :53. 

Rudy, R. J., and Willner, S. P. "The Strength of Paschen-AIpha in the Seyfert 
1.9 Galaxy V Zwicky 317." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 267(1983) :L69. 

Schaefer, B., and Patterson, J. [Abstract] "Observations of Pre-Nova Orbital 
Periods." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :633. 

. "Orbital Periods of Novae Before Eruption." Astrophysical Journal 

268(1983) :710. 

Shectman, S.; Stefanik, R.; and Latham, D. W. "Redshifts for 115 Galaxies 
Near the Equator." Astronomical Journal 88(1983) :477-82. 

Schild, R. [Abstract] "Luminosity and Color Evolution of Cluster Galaxies at 
z = 0.8." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1983) :906. 

. "The Ultraviolet Circumstellar Reddening Law for Be Stars." Astron- 
omy and Astrophysics 120(1983) :223. 

Schild, R.; Garrison, R.; and Hiltner, W. "UBV Photometry for Southern CB 
Stars." Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 51(1983) :321. 

. "Variability and Mass Loss in la O-B-A Supergiants." Astronomical 

Journal 88(1983) :67. 

Schild, R., and Weekes, T. "QSO 0957+56." lAU Circular 3747, 1982. 

Schmitt, J. H. M.; Golub, L.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Maxson, C. W.; and Vaiana, 
G. S. [Abstract] "An X-Ray Survey of Main Sequence Stars with Shallow 
Convection Zones." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 15 

(1983) :673. 

Schreier, E. J.; Feigelson, E. D.; and Gorenstein, P. "High Resolution X-Ray 
Observations of M87: Nucleus, Jet, and Radio Halo." Astrophysical Journal 
261(1982) :42-50. 

Schwartz, D. A., and Ku, W. H.-M. "Studies of BL Lac Objects with the 
Einstein X-Ray Observatory: The Absolute Volume Density." Astrophysical 
Journal 266(1983) :459. 

Schwartz, D. A.; Madejski, G.; and Ku, W. H.-M. "X-Ray Variability of 
Active Galactic Nuclei." Highlights of Astronomy 6(1983) :499. 

Seward, F. D. "Einstein Observations of Supernova Remnants." In Super- 
novae: A Survey of Current Research, ed. M. J. Rees and R. J. Stoneham, 
pp. 519-28. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1982. 

. "Einstein Observations of Supernova Remnants." Advances in Space 

Research 2(9) (1983) :153-61. 

Seward, F. D., and Chlebowski, T. "X-Ray Emission from the Carina Nebula 
and the Associated Early Stars." Astrophysical Journal 256(1982) :530. 

Seward, F. D.; Chlebowski, T.; Delvaille, J. P.; Henry, J. P.; Kahn, S. M.; 
Van Speybroeck, L.; Dijkstra, J.; Brinkman, A. C; Heise, J.; Mewe, R.; 
and Schrijver, J. "Calibration and Efficiency of the Einstein Objective 
Grating Spectrometer." Applied Optics 21(1982) :2012. 

Seward, F.; Gorenstein, P.; and Tucker, W. "The Mass of Tycho's Supernova 
Remnants as Determined from a High Resolution X-Ray Map." Astro- 
physical Journal 266(1983) :287. 



496 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Seward, F. D., and Harnden, F. R., Jr. "Discovery of a New Pulsar within a 

Supernova Remnant." Mercury 12(1983) -.56-57. 
Seward, F. D.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Murdin, P.; and Clark, D. H. "MSH15- 

5(2): A Supernova Remnant Containing Two Compact X-Ray Sources." 

Astrophysical Journal 267(1983) :698-710. 
Sion, E. M., and Guinan, E. F. "The Hot DO White Dwarf HD 149499B: A 

DB Progenitor with Carbon Features." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 265 

(1983) :L87. 
. "Ultraviolet Spectrophotometry of a New Nova-Like 'Disk' Variable 

KQ Mon." In Advances in UV Astronomy: Four Years of lUE Research, 

NASA Conference Publication 2238, ed. Y. Kondo, J. M. Mead, and R. D. 

Chapman, p. 460. Washington, D.C. : National Aeronautics and Space 

Administration, 1982. 
Slowey, J. W. "The Geomagnetic Variation in the Upper Atmosphere." Ad- 
vances in Space Research 3(1)(1983) :67-73. 
Smith, G. H. "DDO Photometry of the Open Cluster IC 4756." Publications 

of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 95(1983) :296. 
. "Spectra of the Blue CN and CH Bands for a CN-Enhanced Giant in 

the Open Cluster IC 4651." Astronomical Journal 88(1983) :1344-48. 

"The Cyanogen Inhomogeneity of NGC 362." Astronomical Journal 



88(1983) :410. 

Smith, G. H., and Dopita, M. A. "The Chemical Inhomogeneity of the Sculp- 
tor Dwarf Spheroidal Galaxy." Astrophysical Journal 271(1983) :113-22. 

Smith, G. H., and Norris, J. "The Cyanogen Distribution of the Red Giants in 
M5." Astrophysical Journal 264(1983) :215. 

Soderblom, D. R. "Angular Momentum Loss and Chromospheric Activity in 
Late-Type Dwarfs." In Proceedings of lAU Symposium 102, Solar and 
Stellar Magnetic Fields: Origins and Coronal Effects, ed. J. O. Stenflo, 
p. 439. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983. 

. "Rotational Studies of Late-Type Stars. I. Rotational Velocities of 

Solar-Type Stars." Astrophysical Journal 263(1982) :239. 

-. "Rotational Studies of Late-Type Stars. II. Ages of Solar-Type Stars 



and the Rotational History of the Sun." Astrophysical Journal Supplement 
Series 53(1983) :1-16. 

"The Distribution of Chromospheric Emission Strengths Among Red 



Dwarfs." In Proceedings of Colloquium 71, Activity in Red Dwarf Stars, 
ed. P. B. Byrne and M. Rodono, p. 67. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel 
Publishing Company, 1983. 

Stachnik, R. V.; Melroy, P.; McCormack, E.; Arnold, D.; and Gezari, D. Y. 
"A Multiple Spacecraft Michelson Spatial Interferometer." Proceedings of 
the SPIE 445(1983) :52. 

Stachnik, R. V.; Nisenson, P.; and Noyes, R. W. "Speckle Image Reconstruc- 
tion of Solar Features: I. Preliminary Results." Astrophysical Journal 
(Letters) 271(1983) :L37. 

Stabler, S. W. "The Equilibria of Rotating, Isothermal Clouds: I. Method of 
Solution." Astrophysical Journal 268(1983) :155. 

. "The Equilibria of Rotating, Isothermal Clouds: II. Structure and 

Dynamical Stability." Astrophysical Journal 268(1983) :165. 

Stauffer, J. R. "BVR. Photometry of Low Mass Stars in Praesepe." Publica- 
tions of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 94(1982) :678. 

. "The Lower Main Sequence of the Hyades." Astronomical Journal 87 

(1982) :899. 

-. "A Nuclear Spectroscopic Survey of Field Cluster Disk Galaxies. II: 



Galaxies with Emission Lines Not Excited by Stellar Photoionization." 
Astrophysical Journal 262(1982) :66. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 497 



. "Observations of Low Mass Stars in the Pleiades: Has a Pre-Main 

Sequence Been Detected?" Astronomical Journal 87(1982) :1507. 

Stauffer, J.; Schild, R.; and Keel, W. "Arp 102B: A New and Unusual Brcad- 
Line Galaxy." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 270(1983) :L465-L470. 

Stocke, J.; Liebert, J.; Maccacaro, T.; Gioia, I. M.; Griffiths, R.; and Dan- 
ziger, J. [Abstract] "The Einstein Observatory Medium Sensitivity X-Ray 
Survey: Evidence for Cosmological Evolution of Quasars, BL Lacs and 
Clusters of Galaxies." Publications of the Astronomical Society of the 
Pacific 94:{1982) -.759. 

Stocke, J.; Liebert, J.; Stockman, J.; Danziger, J.; Lub, J.; Maccacaro, T.; 
Griffiths, R.; and Giommi, P. "A New X-Ray Discovered BL Lac Object." 
Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 200(1982) :27P. 

Tananbaum, H.; Wardle, J. F. C.; Zamorani, G.; and Avni, Y. "X-Ray Studies 
of Quasars with the Einstein Observatory (III) : The 3CR Sample." Astro- 
physical Journal 268(1983) :60. 

Tatchyn, R.; Lindau, L; Kallne, E.; Hecht, M.; Spiller, E.; Bartlett, R.; Kallne, 
J.; Dijkstra, J. H.; Hawryluk, A.; and Bachrach, R. Z. "The First Use of 
Transmission Gratings for Measurements of Optical Constants in the Soft 
X-Ray Range." Nuclear Instrumentation and Methods 195(1982) :423-28. 

Topka, K.; Avni, Y.; Golifb, L.; Gorenstein, P.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Rosner, 
R.; and Vaiana, G. S. "A Magnitude-Limited Stellar X-Ray Survey and the 
F Star X-Ray Luminosity Function." Astrophysical Journal 259(1982) :677- 
92. 

Traub, W. A.; Chance, K. V.; Brasunas, J. C; Vrtilek, J. M.; and Carleton, 
N. P. "Use of a Fourier Transform Spectrometer on a Balloon-Borne Tele- 
scope and at the Multiple Mirror Telescope (MMT)." In Instrumentation in 
Astronomy IV, SPIE vol. 331, ed. D. L. Crawford, pp. 208-18. Society of 
Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1982. 

Traub, W. A., and Davis, W. F. "Coherent Optical System of Modular 
Imaging Collectors (COSMIC). Telescope Array: Astronomical Goals and 
Preliminary Image Reconstruction Results." In Advanced Technology Opti- 
cal Telescopes, SPIE vol. 332, pp. 164-75. Society of Photo-Optical Instru- 
mentation Engineers, 1982. 

Tsinganos, K. C; Habbal, S. R.; and Rosner, R. [Abstract] "A New Class of 
Standing Shocks in Astrophysical Jets and Accretion Flows." Bulletin of 
the American Astronomical Society 14(4) (1982) :871. 

Tucker, W. H. "Cosmic Clumps." Science Digest (June) (1982) :40. 

. "Tycho's Supernova." Astronomy (October) (1982) :74. 

Tucker, W. H., and Rosner, R. "Thermal Conduction and Heating by Non- 
Thermal Electrons in the X-Ray Halo of M87." Astrophysical Journal 267 
(1983) :547-50. 

Tucker, W., and Tucker, K. "Dwarf Stars: Red, Brown, and Black." Mercury 
XI(1982):81. 

. "A Question of Galaxies." Mercury XI(1982) :151. 

. "The Cosmic X-Ray Background." Mercury XII(1983):120. 

Ulmer, M. P.; Brown, R. L.; Schwartz, D. A.; Patterson, J.; and Cruddace, 
R. G. "The Discovery of an X-Ray Bright BL Lacertae Object: 0414+009." 
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 270(1983) :Ll-L6 

. [Abstract] "The Discovery of an X-Ray Bright BL Lacertae Object: 

0414+009." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :933. 

Vaiana, G. S.; Serio, S.; Sciortino, S.; Golub, L.; Maxson, C. W.; and Rosner, 
R. [Abstract] "The Temperature-Luminosity Dependence of Stellar X-Ray 
Sources." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :945. 

van Dishoeck, E. F.; Langhoff, S. R.; and Dalgarno, A. "The Low-Llying ^2" 
States of OH." Journal of Chemical Physics 78(1983) :4552-61. 



498 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



van Dishoeck, E. F.; van Hemert, M. C; and Dalgarno, A. "Photodissociation 
Processes in the HCl Molecule." Journal of Chemical Physics 77(1982) : 
3693-3702. 

Victor, G. A., and Dalgarno, A. "The 2145 A Dayglow and the High Altitude 
Nitric Oxide Density." Geophysical Research Letters 9(1982) :866-68. 

Victor, G. A.; Hernandez, 5. P.; Doering, J. P.; and Abreu, V. J. "Comparison 
of Absolute Photoelectron Fluxes Measured on AE-C and AE-E with Theo- 
retical Fluxes and Predicted and Measured N^ 2PG 3371 A Volume Emis- 
sion Rates." Planetary and Space Science 31(1983) :221-33. 

Victor, G. A., and Taylor, W. R. "Oscillator Strengths for the Cu I and Zn I 
Isoelectronic Sequences." Atomic Data and Nuclear Data Tables 28(1983) : 
107-214. 

Vogt, S. S.; Soderblom, D. R.; and Penrod, G. D. "Rotational Studies of Late- 
Type Stars. III. Rotation Among BY Draconis Stars." Astrophysical Journal 
269(1983) :250-52. 

Weekes, T. C. "Possible Detection of 8 Minute Transients of Very High 
Energy Gamma Rays from Cygnus X-3." In Proceedings of the International 
Workshop on Very High Energy Gamma Ray Astronomy, ed. P. V. Ramana 
Murthy and T. C. Weekes, p. 270. Bombay, India: Tata Institute of Funda- 
mental Research, 1982. 

. "A Search for Transients in the 1969-72 Observations of PSR 0531." 

In Proceedings of the International Workshop on Very High Energy Gamma 
Ray Astronomy, ed. P. V. Ramana Murthy and T. C. Weekes, p. 276. 
Bombay, India: Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, 1982. 

"A Search for Very High Energy Gamma Ray Transients from 



Cygnus X-3 and PSR 0531." Astronomy and Astrophysics 121(1983) :232. 

Weekes, T. C, and Geary, J. C. "Observations of Cygnus X-3 in the I-Band." 
Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 94(1982) :708. 

Weisskopf, M.; Eisner, R.; Darbro, W.; Leahy, D.; Naranan, S.; Sutherland, 
P.; Grindlay, J.; Harnden, F.; and Seward, F. "The Period History of the 
X-Ray Pulsar in MSH15-52." Astrophysical Journal 267(1983) :711-12. 

Whitney, C. A. "Comments on Stellar Acoustics and the Bump Cepheids." In 
Pulsations in Classical and Cataclysmic Variable Stars, ed. J. Cox and C. J. 
Hansen, pp. 226-31. Boulder, Colo.: JILA, University of Colorado/National 
Bureau of Standards, 1983. 

. [Abstract] "Departures from Thermal Equilibrium in Stars Under- 
going Mass-Loss." Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(4) 
(1983):894. 

"Principal Components Analysis of Spectral Data. II. Error Analysis 



and Applications to Interstellar Reddening, Luminosity Classification of 
M Supergiants, and the Analysis of VV Cephei Stars." Astronomy and 
Astrophysics Supplements 51(1983) :463-78. 

"Principal Components Analysis of Spectral Data. I. Methodology for 



Spectral Classification." Astronomy and Astrophysics Supplements 51 
(1983) :433-61. 

"Statistical Properties of a Simulacrum for Eruptive Variables. 



Astronomy and Astrophysics 119(1983) :315-18. 

Whitney, C. A., and McCrosky, R. E. "Five New Variable Stars." Information 
Bulletin on Variable Stars No. 2186 (1982). 

Willner, S. P. "Observed Spectral Features of Dust. In Galactic and Extra- 
galactic Infrared Spectroscopy, XVIth ESLAB Symposium, ed. M. F. Kessler. 
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983. 

Willner, S. P.; Gillett, F. C; Herter, T. L.; Jones, B.; Krassner, J.; Merrill, 
K. M.; Pipher, J. L.; Puetter, R. C; Rudy, R. J.; Russell, R. W.; and Soifer, 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 499 



B. T. "Infrared Spectra of Protostars: Composition of the Dust Shells." 
Astrophysical Journal 253(1982) :174. 

Willner, S. P., and Pipher, J. L. "Extinction to Ionized Gas at the Galactic 
Center." Astrophysical Journal 265(1983) :760. 

. "Three Compact Sources with Unusual 2 to 4 Micron Spectra." In 

Proceedings of American Institute of Physics Conference No. 83, The 
Galactic Center, ed. G. R. Riegler and R. D. Blandford, p. 77. New York: 
American Institute of Physics, 1982. 

Willner, S. P.; Schild, R. E.; and Pipher, J. L. "Comparison of Infrared and 
Optical Positions for Sources in the Direction of the Galactic Center." 
Astronomical Journal 88(1983) :177. 

Wirth, A. "Color Gradients in Galactic Spheroids II: Gradient as a Function 
of Luminosity and Morphology." Astronomical Journal 88(1983) :171. 

Wirth, A.; Kenyon, S. J.; and Hunter, D. A. "NGC 1275 — A Burgeoning 
Elliptical of Galaxy." Astrophysical Journal 269(1983) :102-6. 

Wirth, A.; Smarr, L. L.; and Gallagher, J. S. "Dumbbell Galaxies and Process- 
ing Radio Jets." Astronomical Journal 87(1982) :602. 

Withbroe, G. L. "Role of Spicules in Heating the Solar Atmosphere, Impli- 
cations of EUV Observations." Astrophysical Journal 267(1983) :825. 

Withbroe, G. L.; Kohl, J. L.; Weiser, H.; and Munro, R. H. "Probing the 
Solar Wind Acceleration Region Using Spectroscopic Techniques." Space 
Science Reviews 33(1982) :17. 

Wittels, J. J.; Shapiro, I. I.; and Cotton, W. D. "Confirmation on a Conspir- 
acy: Dual-Band VLBI Maps of the Flat-Spectrum Radio Source 2021-f 
614." Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 262(1982) :L27-L30. 

Wood, J. A. [Abstract] "As the World Turns: Angular Momentum and the 
Solar System." Meteoritics 17(1982) :298-99. 

. "Exploration of the Moon." In Astronomy from Space, ed. J. Cornell 

and P. Gorenstein, pp. 61-80. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1983. 

Yoshino, K.; Freeman, D. E.; Esmond, J. R.; and Parkinson, W. H. "High 
Resolution Absorption Cross Section Measurements and Band Oscillator." 
Planetary and Space Science 31(1983) :339. 

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER 

Buchanan, C; Goldberg, B.; and McCartney, R. "A Laboratory Method for 
Studying Zooplankton Swimming Behaviors." Hydrobiologia 94(1982) -.77- 
89. 

Canaani, O., and Gantt, E. "Formation of Hybrid Phycobilisomes by Associa- 
tion of Phycobiliproteins from Nostoc and Fremyella. Proceedings of the 
National Academy of Science 79(1982) :5542-46. 

Canaani, O., and Gantt, E. "Native and In Vffro-Associated Phycobilisomes 
of Nostoc sp.: Composition, Energy Transfer and Effect of Antibodies." 
Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 723(1983) :340-49. 

Cleland, C. F. "The Chemical Control of Flowering — A Status Report." In 
Plant Growth Substances, XI International Conference on Plant Growth 
Substances, Aberystwyth, United Kingdom, ed. P. F. Wareing, pp. 635-44. 
London: Academic Press, 1982. 

Cleland, C. F., and Ben-Tal, Y. "Hormonal Regulation of Flowering and Sex 
Expression." In Strategies of Plant Reproduction, Beltsville Agricultural 
Research Center Symposium no. 6, ed. W. J. Meudt, pp. 157-80. Totowa, 
N.J.: Allenheld, Osmun, 1982. 

Clement-Metral, J. D., and Gantt, E. "Isolation of Oxygen-Evolving Phy- 
cobilisome-Photosystem II Particles from Porphyridium cruentum." Federa- 
tion of European Biochemical Societies Letters 156(1983) :185-88. 



500 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Cyr, K. L. "Characterization of Rye Phytochrome Purified by Affigel Blue 
Chromatography." M.S. thesis, Department of Botany, University of Mary- 
land, College Park, July 22, 1983. 

Daniels, S. M. "Purification of Phytochrome by Affinity Chromatography on 
Agarose-Immobilized Cibacron Blue 3GA and Partial Characterization of 
the Phytochrome-Dye Ligand Binding Domain." Ph.D. thesis. Department 
of Botany, University of Maryland, College Park, November 8, 1982. 

Deitzer, G. F. "Effect of Far-Red Energy on the Photoperiodic Control of 
Flowering In Wintex Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.)." In Strategies of Plant 
Reproduction, Beltsville Agricultural Research Center Symposium no. 6, 
ed. W. J. Meudt, pp. 99-115. Totowa, N.J.: Allenheld, Osmun, 1982. 

Falk, J. H. "Environmental Education: Formal vs. Informal Learning." Envi- 
ronmental Education and Information 2(1983) :171-78. 

. "Time and Behabior as Predators of Learning." Science Education 67 

(1983) :267-76. 

Faust, M. A. "Contribution of Pleasure Boats of Fecal Bacteria Concentration 
in the Rhode River Estuary, Maryland, U.S.A." The Science of the Total 
Environment 25(1982) :255-60. 

Feder, M. E., and Lynch, J. F. "Effects of Latitude, Season, Elevation, and 
Microhabitat on Field Body Temperatures of Neotropical and Temperate 
Zone Salamanders." Ecology 63(1982) :1657-64. 

Goldberg, B., ed. "Solar Radiation Measurements in Developing Countries." 
Solar Energy 31(1983) :1-133. 

Gopal, B.; Turner, R. E.; Wetzel, R. G.; and Whigham, D. F., eds. Wetlands. 
Ecology and Management, Part U. Vol. 7 (1-3). International Journal of 
Ecology and Environmental Sciences. Jaipur, India: International Scientific 
Publications, 1982. 

Harding, R. W.; Caroline, D. F.; and Wagner, R. P. "Pyruvate Dehydrogenase 
Complex from Neurospora." Methods in Enzymology 89(1982) :386-91. 

Harding, R. W., and Melles, S. "Genetic Analysis of Neurospora crassa 
Perithecial Beaks Using White Collar and Albino Mutants." Plant Physi- 
ology 72(1983) :996-1000. 

Hines, A. H. "Allometric Constraints and Variables of Reproductive Effort in 
Brachyuran Crabs." Marine Biology 69(1982) :309-20. 

Hines, A. H., and Pearse, J. S. "Abalones, Shells, and Sea Otters: Dynamics 
of Prey Populations in Central California." Ecology 63(1982) :1547-60. 

Hoober, J. K.; Marks, D. B.; Keller, B. J.; and Margulies, M. M. "Regulation 
of Accumulation of the Major Thylakoid Polypeptides in Chlamydomonas 
reinhardtii y-1 at 25° C and 38° C. Journal of Cell Biology 95:552-58 

Khanna, R.; Graham, J. R.; Myers, J.; and Gantt, E. "Phycobilisome Composi- 
tion and Possible Relationship to Reaction Centers." Archives of Bio- 
chemistry and Biophysics 224(1983) :534-42. 

Klein, W. H. "Solar Resources." Sun at Work in Britain 14(1982) :29-30. 

Klein, W. H., and Goldberg, B. Solar Radiation Measurements/1980-1981. 
Smithsonian Radiation Biology Laboratory, Rockville, Md. Washington, 
D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Eighty, R. G.; Macintyre, I. G.; and Stuckenrath, R. "Acropora palmata Reef 
Framework: A Reliable Indicator of Sea Level in the Western Atlantic for 
the Past 10,000 Years." Coral Reefs 1(1982) :125-30. 

Macintyre, I. G.; Burke, R. B.; and Stuckenrath, R. "Core Holes in the Outer 
Fore Reef off Carrie Bow Cay, Belize: A Key to the Holocene History of 
the Belizean Barrier Reef Complex." In Proceedings of the Fourth Inter- 
national Coral Reef Symposium, pp. 567-74. Quezon: Manila Marine Ser- 
vice Center, University of the Philippines, 1981. 

Moore-Landecker, E., and Shropshire, W., Jr. "Effects of Aeration and Light 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 501 



on Apothecia, Sclerotia, and Mycelial Growth in the Discomycete Pyronema 
domesticum." Mycologia 74(1982) :1000-13. 

Ohki, K., and Gantt, E. "Functional Phycobilisomes from Tolypothrix tenuis 
(Cyanophyta) Grown Heterotropically in the Dark." Journal of Phycology 
19(1983) :359-64. 

Pewe, T. L.; Dowan, D. E.; Pewe, R. H.; and Stuckenrath, R. "Glacial and 
Periglacial Geology of Northwest Blomsletta Peninsula, Spitsbergen, Sval- 
bard." Skrifter Nr. 177. Oslo: Norsk Polarinstitutt, 1982. 

Redlinger, T., and Gantt, E. "A Mr 95,000 Polypeptide in Porphyridium cruen- 
tum Phycobilisomes and Thylakoids: Possible Function in Linkage of Phy- 
cobilisomes to Thylakoids and in Energy Transfer." Proceedings of the 
National Academy of Science 79(1982) :5542-46. 

Rowan, D. R.; Pewe, T. L.; Pewe, R. H.; and Stuckenrath, R. "Holocene 
Glacial Geology of the Svea Lowland, Spitzbergen, Svalbard." Geografiska 
Annaler 64A(1982) :35-51. 

Sager, J. C.; Edwards, J. L.; and Klein, W. H. "Light Energy Utilization Effi- 
ciency for Photosynthesis." In Transactions of the American Society of 
Agricultural Engineers 25, no. 6 (1982) :1737-46. St. Joseph, Mich. 

Shaw, N., and Harding, R. W. "Calcium Inhibition of a Heat-Stable Cyclic 
Nucleotide Phosphodiesterase from Neurospora crassa." Federation of Euro- 
pean Biochemical Societies Letters 152(1983) :295-99. 

Simpson, R. L.; Good, R. E.; Leek, M. A.; and Whigham, D. F. "The Ecology 
of Freshwater Tidal Wetlands." BioScience 33(1983) :255-59. 

Smith, H., and Holmes, M. G., eds. Techniques in Photomorphogenesis. Lon- 
don: Academic Press, 1983. 

Tanaka, O.; Cleland, C. F.; and Ben-Tal, Y. "Effect of Ferricyanide, Ferro- 
cyanide and KCN on Growth and Flowering in the Short-Day Plant Lemna 
paucicostata 6746." Plant and Cell Physiology 24(1983) :705-ll. 

Whigham, D. F. "Wetlands of the World: The Long Wetland." The Geo- 
graphical Magazine (May 1983) :240-44. 

Whigham, D. F., and Simpson, R. L. "Germination and Dormancy Studies of 
Pontederia cordata." Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club 108(1982) :524- 
28. 

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 

Ackerman, James D.; Mesler, Michael R.; Lu, Karen L.; and Montalvo, Arlee 
M. "Food foraging behavior of male euglossini (Hymenoptera: Apidae) : 
vagabonds or trapliners?" Biotropica 14(4) (1982) :241-48. 

Ackerman, James D. "Euglossine bee pollination of the orchid, Cochleanthes 
lipscomhiae: a food source mimic." American Journal of Botany 70(6) 
(1983) :830-34. 

. "Diversity and seasonality of male euglossine bees (Hymenoptera: 

Apidae) in Central Panama." Ecology 64(2) (1983) :274-83. 

Andrews, Robin M., and Rand, A. Stanley. "Seasonal breeding and long- 
term population fluctuations in the lizard Anolis limifrons." In The Ecology 
of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, 
Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 404-12. 
Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

. "Limited dispersal of juvenile Anolis limifrons." Copeia 2(1983) :429- 

34. 

Augspurger, Carol K. "Offspring recruitment around tropical trees : changes 
in cohort distance with time." Oikos 40(2) (1983) :189-96. 

Ayarza, R., Carlos J. "Estudio de la dinamica de poblacion de Coragyps 
atratus (Aves : Cathartidae) en las provincias de Panama y Colon, Repiiblica 
de Panama." Thesis, University of Panama, 1982. 



502 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Barclay, Robert M. R. "Echolocation calls of Emballonurid bats from Pan- 
ama." Journal of Comparative Physiology 151(4)(1983) :515-20. 

Bailey, T. G., and Robertson, D. Ross. "Organic and caloric levels of fish 
feces in relation to its consumption by reef fishes." Marine Biology 69 
(1982):45-50. 

Benalcazar, Cesar E., and Silva de Benalcazar, Fabiola. "Display of the 
Andean cock-of-the-rock." In The Cotingas, ed. David Snow, pp. 178-82. 
London: British Museum (Natural History), 1982. 

Bertness, Mark D. "Shell utilization, predation pressure, and thermal stress 
in Panamanian hermit crabs: an interoceanic comparison." Journal of Ex- 
perimental Marine Biology and Ecology, 64(2)(1982) :159-87. 

Brokaw, Nicholas V. L. "Treefalls: frequency, timing and consequences." In 
The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term 
Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Don- 
ald M., pp. 101-8. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Bucher, Theresa L., and Worthington, Andrea. "Nocturnal hypothermia and 
oxygen consumption in manakins." The Condor 84(3) (1982) :327-31. 

Burghardt, Gordon M., and Rand, A. Stanley, eds. Iguanas of the World; 
their behavior, ecology and conservation. Park Ridge, N.J.: Noyes Publica- 
tions, 1982. 

Caceres C., Dalys Graciela, and Castillo, Paulina del Carmen. "Estudio de 
la relacion interespecifica entre los insectos de la sub-familia Cassidinae, 
familia Chrysomelidae y la planta Batatilla amerilla (Merremia umbellata, 
Hallier) de la familia Convolvulaceae." Thesis, University of Panama, 1982. 

Caldwell, Gloria Sullivan, and Rubinoff, Roberta Wolff. "Avoidance of ven- 
omous sea snakes by naive herons and egrets." The Auk, 100(1) (1983) : 
195-98. 

Chang, Jose Carlos, and Solis D. Abby Elcebir. "Variacion en la comunidad 
de zooplancton en el Golfo de Panama." Thesis, University of Panama, 
1982. 

Clayton, William S., Jr., and Lasker, Howard R. "Effects of light and dark 
treatments on feeding by the reef coral Pocillopora damicornis (Linnaeus)." 
Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 63(3) (1982) :269-79. 

Coley, Phyllis D. "Rates of herbivory on different tropical trees." In The 
Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, 
ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 
123-32. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Cooke, Richard G. "Current Research: Lower Central America, Panama." 
American Antiquity 48(1) (1983) :177-78. 

Cooke, Richard, and Rovira, Beatriz Elena. "Hisorical archaeology in Panama 
City." Archaeology 36(2)(1983) :51-57. 

De Alba, Georgina A., and Rubinoff, Roberta W., eds. Evolucion en los Tropi- 
cos. Publicaciones Selectas del Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. 
Panama: Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and Editorial Universi- 
taria, 1982. 

DeLong, Dwight M., and Wolda, Henk. "New species of Curtara, Polana and 
Acuera (Homoptera: Cicadellidae, Gyponinae) from Panama, Peru, Bolivia, 
and Venezuela." Entomologica Scandinavica 13(1982) :301-11. 

. "New species of Gyponana (Homoptera: Cicadellidae) from Panama 

and Mexico." Entolomogical News 93(1) (1982) :12-14. 

Dietrich, William E.; Windsor, Donald M.; and Dunne, Thomas. "Geology, 
climate and hydrology of Barro Colorado Island." In The Ecology of a 
Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, 
Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 21-46. Wash- 
ington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 503 



Dressier, Robert L. "Biology of the orchid bees (Euglossini)." Annual Review 

of Ecology and Systematics 13(1982) :373-94. 
. "Die Abrenzung der Gattungen im Epidendum-Komplex." Die Orchi- 

dee 33(1982) :177-85. 

"Dos Brachionidium nuevas de Panama." Orquideologia 15(1982): 



152-64 (includes the English version). 

'New species of Euglossa. II. (Hymenoptera : Apidae)." Revista de 



Biologia Tropical 30(1982) :121-29. 

"New species of Euglossa. III. The bursigera species group (Hymenop- 



tera: Apidae)." Revista de Biologia Tropical 30(1982) :131-40. 

'New species of Euglossa. IV. The cordata and purpurea species 



groups (Hymenoptera: Apidae)." Revista de Biologia Tropical 30(1982): 
141-50. 

"Vanda sanderiana is legal again." American Orchid Society Bulletin 



51(1982) :20. 

Dressier, Robert L., and Williams, N. H. "Proposal for the conservation of the 
generic name 1770 Oncidium Swartz (Orchidaceae) with a conserved type 
species, Oncidium altissimum Sw." Taxon 31(1982) :752-53. 

Drewry, George E.; Heyer, W. Ronald; and Rand, A. Stanley. "A functional 
analysis of the complex call of the frog Physalaemus pustulosus." Copeia 
1982(3) (1982) :636-45. 

Dugan, Beverly. "A field study of the headbob displays of male green iguanas 
(Iguana iguana): variation in form and context." Animal Behaviour 30(2) 
(1982) :327-38. 

Dyrcz, Andrzej. "Breeding ecology of the Clay-coloured Robin Turdus grayi 
in lowland Panama." Ibis 125(1983) :287-304. 

Eberhard, William G. "Behavioral characters for the higher classification of 
orb-weaving spiders." Evolution 36(5) (1982) :1067-95. 

Eberhard, William G., and Matthews, J. "Grooming in the fly Phormia." In 
Insect Behavior, ed. Matthews, J. R., and Matthews, R. W., pp. 203-10. 
Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press, 1982. 

Fisk, Frank W., and Wolda, Henk. "New species of Ceratinoptera cockroaches 
from Panama and Costa Rica (Blattaria: Blattellidae: Plectopterinae)." 
Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 85(2)(1983): 
286-96. 

Foster, Robin B. "The seasonal rhythm of fruitfall on Barro Colorado Island." 
In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term 
Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald 
M., pp. 151-72. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

. "Famine on Barro Colorado Island." In The Ecology of a Tropical 

Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., 
Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 201-12. Washington, 
D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Foster, Robin B., and Brokaw, Nicholas V. L. "Structure and history of the 
vegetation of Barro Colorado Island." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. 
Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, 
A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 67-82. Washington, D.C: Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Franks, Nigel. "Ecology and population regulation in the army ant Eciton 
burchelli." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and 
Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Wind- 
sor, Donald M., pp. 389-98. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1982. 

Froehlich, Jeffry W., and Thorington, Richard W., Jr. "The genetic structure 
and socioecology of howler monkeys (Alouatta palliata) on Barro Colorado 



504 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Island." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long- 
term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, 
Donald M., pp. 291-305. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 
1982. 

Garces B., Humberto Arturo. "Dinamica del zooplancton limnetico en los 
lagos Gatiin y Bayano." Thesis, University of Panama, 1982. 

Garrity, S. D., and Levings, S. C. "Homing to scars as a defense against 
predators in the pulmonates limpet Siphonaria gigas (Gastropoda)." Marine 
Biology 72(3) (1983) :319-24. 

Garwood, Nancy C. "Seasonal rhythm of seed germination in a semideciduous 
tropical forest." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms 
and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and 
Windsor, Donald M., pp. 173-85. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Press, 1982. 

Glanz, William E. "The terrestrial mammal fauna of Barro Colorado Island: 
censuses and long-term changes." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. 
Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, 
A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 455-68. Washington, D.C: Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Glanz, William E.; Thorington, Richard W., Jr.; Giacalone-Madden, Jaclyn; 
and Heaney, Lawrence R. "Seasonal food use and demographic trends in 
Sciurus granatensis." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms 
and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and 
Windsor, Donald M., pp. 239-52. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Press, 1982. 

Glynn, Peter W. " Acanthaster population regulation by a shrimp and a 
worm." In Proceedings of the 4th International Coral Reef Symposium, 
Manila, 1982. 

. "Individual recognition and phenotypic variability in Acanthaster 

planci (Echinodermata: Asteroidea)." Coral Reefs, 1(2) (1982) :89-94. 

-. "Increased survivorship in corals harboring crustacean symbionts." 



Marine Biology Letters 4(2) (1983) :105-111. 

Gonzalez C; Eric Edgardo, and Polo G., Eira Mercedes. "Efectos de la sedi- 
mentacion en el crecimiento de algunas especies de corales en Panama." 
Thesis, University of Panama, 1982. 

Gradwohl, Judy, and Greenberg, Russell. "The breeding season of antwrens 
on Barro Colorado Island." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal 
Rhythms and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stan- 
ley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 345-51. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian 
Institution Press, 1982. 

Graham, Jeffrey B. "The transition to air breathing in fishes. II. Effects of 
hypoxia acclimation on the bimodal gas exchange of Ancistrus chagresi 
(Loricaridae)." Journal of Experimental Biology 102(1983) :157-73. 

Graves, John E.; Rosenblatt, Richard H.; and Somero, George N. "Kinetic 
and electrophoretic differentiation of lactate dehydrogenases of teleost 
species-pairs from the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of Panama." Evolution 
37(1) (1983) :30-37. 

Greenfield, Michael D. "Reproductive isolation in clearwing moths (Lepidop- 
tera: Sesiidae) : a tropical-temperate comparison." Ecology 64(2) (1983): 
362-75. 

. "Unsynchronized chorusing in the coneheaded Katydid Neoconoce- 

phalus affinis (Beauvois)." Animal Behavior 31(1)(1983) :102-12. 

Hay, Mark E.; Colburn, Tina_; and Downing, Daphne. "Spatial and temporal 
patterns in herbivory on a Caribbean fringing reef: the effects on plant 
distribution." Oecologia (Berlin) 58(3)(1983) :299-308. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 505 



Handler, Gordon, and Meyer, David L. "An association of a polychaete, 
Branchiosyllis exilis with a ophiuroid, Ophiocoma echinata; in Panama." 
Bulletin of Marine Science 32(3) (1982) :736-44. 

Hoffmaster, Debra K. "Predator avoidance behaviors of five species of Pana- 
manian orb-weaver spiders (Araneae: Araneidae, Uloboridae)." Journal of 
Arachnology 10(1) (1982) :69-73. 

Howe, Henry F. "Fruit production and animal activity in two tropical trees." 
In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term 
Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald 
M., pp. 189-200. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Howe, Henry F., and Smallwood, Judith. "Ecology and seed dispersal." Annual 
Review of Ecology and Systematics 13(1982) :201-28. 

Humphrey, Stephen R.; Bonaccorso, Frank J.; and Zinn, Terry L. "Guild 
structure of surface-gleaning bats in Panama." Ecology 64(2) (1983) :284-94. 

Johnson, L. K., and Wiemer, D.«F. "Nerol: an alarm substance of the sting- 
less bee, Trigona fulviventris (Hymenoptera: Apidae)." Journal of Chemical 
Ecology 8(9) (1982) :1167-81. 

Karr, James R. "Population variability and extinction in the avifauna of a 
tropical land bridge island." Ecology 63(6) (1982) :1975-78. 

Karr, James R.; Shemske, Douglas W.; and Brokaw, Nicholas V. L. "Temporal 
variation in the understory bird community of a tropical forest." In The 
Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, 
ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 
441-54. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Kiester, A. Ross. "A new forest skink from Ponape." Breviora 468(1982) :1-10. 

Kiester, A. Ross; Schwartz, C. W.; and Schwartz, E. R. "Promotion of gene 
flow by transient individuals in the otherwise sedentary population of box 
turtles (Terrapene Carolina triunguis)." Evolution 36(3) (1982) :617-19. 

Kramer, Donald L. "Aquatic surface respiration in the fishes of Panama: dis- 
tribution in relation to risk of hypoxia." Environmental Biology of Fishes 
8(1) (1983) :49-53. 

Leigh, Egbert G., Jr. "Introduction." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. 
Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, 
A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 11-17. Washington, D.C.: Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1982. 

. "Introduction: the significance of population fluctuations." In The 

Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, 
ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 
435-40. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

"Introduction: Why are there so many kinds of tropical trees?" In 



The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term 
Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald 
M., pp. 63-66. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

"When does the good of the group override the advantage of the 



individual?" Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the U.S.A. 
80(10) (1983) :2985-89. 

Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., eds. The 
Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes. 
Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Leigh, Egbert G., Jr., and Windsor, Donald M. "Forest production and regula- 
tion of primary consumers on Barro Colorado Island." In The Ecology of a 
Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, 
Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 111-122. 
Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Leighton, Mark, and Leighton, Donna R. "The relationship of size of feeding 



506 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



aggregate to size of food patch: howler monkeys (Alouatta palliata) feeding 
in Trichilia cipo fruit trees on Barro Colorado Island." Biotropica 14(2) 

(1982) :81-90. 

Lessios, H. A. "Los erizos de mar panamenos, las lesiones que causan y su 
tratamiento." Revista Medica de Panama 8(1) (1983) :56-71. 

Levi, H. W.; Lubin, Y. D.; and Robinson, M. H. "Two new species of Achaea- 
ranea from Papua New Guinea, with notes on other theridiid spiders (Ara- 
neae: Theridiidae)." Pacific Insects 24(1982) :105-13. 

Levings, Sally C, and Windsor, Donald M. "Seasonal and annual variation 
in litter arthropod populations." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Sea- 
sonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. 
Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 355-88. Washington, D.C.: Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Levings, Sally C, and Garrity, Stephen D. "Diet and tidal movement of two 
co-occurring neritid snails; differences in grazing patterns on a tropical 
rocky shore." Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 67(3) 

(1983) :261-78. 

Linares, Olga F. Comment to "Reductionism in cultural ecology: the Amazon 
case." Current Anthropology 23(4) (1982) :423. 

Lubin, Y. D. "Does the social spider, Achaearanea wau (Theridiidae), feed its 
young?" Z. Tierpsychol. 60(1982) :127-34. 

Lubin, Yael D., and Durugl, S. "Effectiveness of single-thread webs as insect 
traps: sticky trap models." Bulletin of the British Arachnological Society 
5(9) (1982) .-399-407. 

Lubin, Yael D.; Opell, B. P.; Eberhard, William G.; and Levi, H. W. "Orb 
plus cone-webs in Uloboridae (Araneae), with a description of a new genus 
and four new species." Psyche 89(1-2) (1982) :29-64. 

Martinez, Marta Lucia. "Biologia reproductiva de Pelecanus occidentalis en 
relacion con el afloramiento de la Bahia de Panama." Thesis, Universidad 
del Valle, Colombia, 1983. 

McElravy, Eric P.; Wolda, Henk; and Resh, Vincent H. "Seasonality and 
annual variability of caddisfly adults (Trichoptera) in a "non-seasonal" 
tropical environment." Archiv. fur Hydrohiologie 94(3) (1982) :302-17. 

Mielke, Wolfgang. "Three variable Arenopontia species (Crustacea, Cope- 
poda) from Panama." Zoologica Scripta 11(2) (1982) :199-207. 

. "Two new Psammpopsyllus species (Copepoda) from the Caribbean 

Coast of Panama." Studies on Neotropical Fauna and Environment 18(1983) : 
101-9. 

Milton, Katharine. "Dietary quality and population regulation in a howler 
monkey population." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms 
and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and 
Windsor, Donald M., pp. 273-90. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Press, 1982. 

Milton, Katharine, and McBee, Richard H. "Rates of fermentation digestion 
in the howler monkey, Alouatta palliatta (Primates: Ceboidea)." Compara- 
tive Bio-chemistry and Physiology 74A(1)(1983) :29-31. 

Montgomery, G. Gene; Gale, N. B.; and Murdoch, W. P., Jr. "Have manatee 
entered the eastern Pacific Ocean?" Mammalia 46(2) (1982) :257-58. 

Moynihan, Martin. "Introduccion." Evolucion en los Tropicos, ed. Smith- 
sonian Tropical Research Institute, pp. 11-14. Panama: Smithsonian Tropi- 
cal Research Institute and Editorial Universitaria, 1982. 

. "A slight discrepancy." The American Naturalist 121(2)(1983) :301. 

Oppenheimer, John R. "Cebus capucinus: home range, population dynamics, 
and interspecific relationships." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Sea- 
sonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 507 



Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 253-72. Washington, D.C. : Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Pennycuick, C. J. "Thermal soaring compared in three dissimilar tropical bird 
species, Fregata magnificens, Pelecanus occidentalis and Coragyps atratus." 
Journal of Experimental Biology 102(1983) :307-25. 

Platenkamp, Gert A. J. Seizoensfluctuaties in de vliegactiviteit van water- 
wantsen (Heteroptera: Nepomorpha) of Barro Colorado Island, Panama. 
Theses, Rijksuniversiteit Utrecht, 13p. [Seasonal fluctuations in flight 
activity of aquatic hemiptera (Heteroptera: Nepomorpha) on Barro Colo- 
rado Island, Panama.], 1982. 

Putz, Francis E., and Milton, Katharine. "Tree mortality rates on Barro Colo- 
rado Island." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and 
Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and 
Windsor, Donald M., pp. 95-100. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Press, 1982. 

Putz, Francis E. "Developmental morphology of Desmoncus isthmius, a climb- 
ing colonial, Cocosoid palm." Principes 27(1) (1983) :38-42. 

Rand, A. Stanley, and Rand, William M. "Variation in rainfall on Barro 
Colorado Island." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms 
and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and 
Windsor, Donald M., pp. 47-60. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Press, 1982. 

Rand, A. Stanley; Ryan, Michael J.; and Troyer, Katherine. "A population 
explosion in a tropical tree frog: Hyla rufitela on Barro Colorado Island, 
Panama." Biotropica 15(1)(1983) :72-73. 

Robbins, Robert K., and Aiello, Annette. "Foodplant and oviposition records 
for Panamanian Lycaenidae and Riodinidae." Journal of the Lepidopterists' 
Society 36(2) (1982) :65-75. 

Roberts, Tyson R. "The Southeast Asian freshwater pufferfish genus Choner- 
hinos (Tetraodontidae), with descriptions of new species." Proceedings of 
the California Academy of Sciences 43(1) (1982) :1-16. 

. "Unculi (Horny projections arising from single cells), and adaptive 

feature of the epidermis of ostariophysan fishes." Zoologica Scripta 11(1) 
(1982) :55-76. 

Robertson, D. Ross, and Foster, Susan F. "Off reef emigration of young 
adults of the labrid fish Epibulus insidiator." Copeia (1982) -.227-29. 

Robertson, D. Ross; Reinboth, Rudolf; and Bruce, Robin W. "Gonochorism, 
protogynous sex-change and spawning in three sparisomatinine parrotfishes 
from the Western Indian Ocean." Bulletin of Marine Science 32(4) (1982): 
868-79. 

Robinson, Michael H. "The philosophy and practice of environmental educa- 
tion in the tropics: a critical assessment." In Education for Environmental 
Planning and Conservation, ed. Bandhu, Desh, and Ramanathan, N. L., pp. 
145-63. New Delhi: Indian Environmental Society, 1982. 

Roubik, David D. "Seasonality in colony food storage, brood production and 
adult survivorship: studies of Melipona in tropical forest (Hymenoptera: 
Apidae)." Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 55(4) (1982) :789-800. 

Roubik, David W., and Aluja, Martin. "Flight ranges of Melipona and Trigona 
in tropical forest." Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 56(2)(1983): 
217-22. 

Rubinoff, Ira. "Una estrategia para conservar los bosques tropicales." Con- 
ciencia 9(3) (1982) :6-ll. 

. "Prologo." In Evolucion en los Tropicos, ed. Smithsonian Tropical 

Research Institute, pp. 9-10. Panama: Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti- 
tute and Editorial Universitaria, 1982. 



508 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



. "Tropical forests: can we afford not to give them a future?" The 

Ecohgist 12(6) (1982) :253-58. 

Russell, James K. "Timing of reproduction by coatis (Nasua narica) in rela- 
tion to fluctuations in food resources." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. 
Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, 
A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 413-31. Washington, D.C.: 
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Ryan, Michael J. "Frequency modulated calls and species recognition in a 
neotropical frog." Journal of Comparative Physiology — A 150(2) (1983) : 
217-21. 

. "Sexual selection and communication in a neotropical frog, Physalae- 

mus pustulosus." Evolution 37(2) (1983) :261-72. 

Ryan, Michael J.; Tuttle, Merlin D.; and Barclay, Robert M. R. "Behavioral 
responses of the frog-eating bat, Trachops cirrhosus, to sonic frequencies." 
Journal of Comparative Physiology 150(4) (1983) :413-18. 

Schemske, Douglas W. "Ecological correlates of a neotropical mutualism: ant 
assemblages at Costus extrafloral nectaries." Ecology 63(4) (1982) :932-41. 

. "Breeding system and habitat effects on fitness components in three 

neotropical Costus (Zingiberaceae)." Evolution 37(3) (1983) :523-39. 

Schneider, David, and Mallory, Elizabeth P. "Spring migration of shorebirds 
in Panama." The Condor 84(3) (1982) :344-45. 

Schwartz, Joshua, and Kentwood, D. Wells. "An experimental study of 
acoustic interference between two species of neotropical treefrogs." Animal 
Behaviour 31(1) (1983) :181-90. 

Shelly, Todd E. "Comparative foraging behavior of light — versus shade-seek- 
ing adult damselflies in a lowland neotropical forest (Odonata: Zygoptera)." 
Physiological Zoology 55(4) (1982) :335-43. 

Smith, Neal G. "Population irruptions and periodic migrations in the day- 
flying moth, Urania fulgens." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Sea- 
sonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. 
Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 331-44. Washington, D.C.: Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1982. 

. "Host plant toxicity and migration in the dayflying moth Urania." 

Florida Entomologist 66(1) (1983) :76-85. 

Smythe, Nicholas. "The seasonal abundance of night-flying insects in a neo- 
tropical forest." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms 
and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and 
Windsor, Donald M., pp. 309-18. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Press, 1982. 

Smythe, Nicholas; Glanz, William E.; and Leigh, Egbert G., Jr. "Population 
regulation in some terrestrial frugivores." In The Ecology of a Tropical 
Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., 
Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 227-38. Washington, 
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Sousa, Octavio E.; Wolda, Hendrick; and Batista, Franklin. "Triatominos 
encontrados en el ambiente silvestre de la Isla Barro Colorado." Revista 
Medica de Panama 8(1) (1983) :50-55. 

Spight, Tom M. "The intertidal snails of Panama City: an exceptionally 
diverse tropical rocky shore assemblage." Ecosynthesis 2(1983) :1-61. 

Steiner, Kim E. "Pollination of Mahea occidentalis (Euphorbiaceae) in Pan- 
ama." Systematic Botany 8(2) (1983) :105-17. 

Thorington, Richard W., Jr.; Tannenbaum, Vernice; Tarak, A.; and Rudran, 
R. "Distribution of trees on Barro Colorado Island: a five hectare sample." 
In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 509 



Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald 

M., pp. 83-94. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 
Thorne, Barbara L. "Termite-termite interactions : workers as an agonistic 

caste." Psyche 89(1-2) (1982) :133-50. 
. "Population and reproductive dynamics of arboreal Nasutitermes 

(Isoptera: Termitidae) in Panama." Ph.D. dissertation. Harvard University, 

1982. 

"Alate production and sex ratio in colonies of the Neotropical termite 



Nasutitermes corniger (Isoptera: Termitidae)." Oecologia 58(1)(1983) :103-9. 

Toft, Catherine A. "Community structure of litter anuran in a tropical forest, 
Makokou, Gabon: a preliminary analysis in the minor dry season." Revue 
D'Ecologie (La Terre et la Vie) 36(2) (1982) :223-32. 

Toft, Catherine A.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Clark, Milton. "Population dy- 
namics and seasonal recruitment in Bufo typhonius and Colostethus nu- 
hicola (Anura)." In The Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms 
and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and 
Windsor, Donald M., pp. 397-404. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Press, 1982. 

Troyer, Katherine. "Posthatching yolk energy in a lizard: utilization pattern 
and interclutch variation." Oecologia (BerUn) 58(3) (1983) :340-44. 

Tuttle, Merlin D. "The amazing frog-eating bat." National Geographic 161 
(l)(1982):78-90. 

Tuttle, Merlin D., and Ryan, Michael J. "The role of synchronized calling, 
ambient light, and ambient noise, in anti-bat-predator behavior of a tree- 
frog." Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 11(2)(1982) :125-31. 

Tuttle, Merlin D.; Taft, Lucinda K.; and Ryan, Michael J. "Evasive behaviour 
of a frog in response to bat predators." Animal Behaviour 30(2) (1982): 
393-97. 

Vollrath, Fritz. "Colony foundation in a social spider." Zeitschrift fUr Tier- 
psychologie 60(4) (1982) :313-24. 

Vollrath, Fritz, and Rohde-Arndt, Dorothee. Prey capture and feeding in the 
social spider Anelosimus eximius. Zeitschrift fur Tierpsychologie 61(4) 
(1983) :334-40. 

Wellington, Gerard M. "Depth zonation of corals in the Gulf of Panama: 
control and facilitation by resident reef fishes." Ecological Monographs 
52(3) (1982) :223-41. 

West-Eberhard, Mary Jane. Sexual selection, social competition, and specia- 
tion. The Quarterly Review of Biology 58(2) (1983) :155-83. 

Wolda, Henk. "Seasonality of homoptera on Barro Colorado Island." In The 
Ecology of a Tropical Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, 
ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 
319-30. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

— . "Diversity, diversity indices and tropical cockroaches." Oecologia 

(Berlin) 58(3) (1983) :290-98. 

"Long term" stability of tropical insect population." Researches on 



Population Ecology, supplement 3(1983) :112-26. 
Wolda, Henk; Fisk, Frank W.; and Estribi, Miguel. "Faunistics of Panamanian 

cockroaches (Blattaria)." Uttar Pradesh Journal of Zoology 3(1)(1983). 
Worthington, Andrea. "Population sizes and breeding rhythms of two species 

of manakins in relation to food supply." In The Ecology of a Tropical 

Forest. Seasonal Rhythms and Long-term Changes, ed. Leigh, Egbert G., Jr.; 

Rand, A. Stanley; and Windsor, Donald M., pp. 213-26. Washington, D.C: 

Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 
Young, Orrey P. "Aggressive interaction between howler monkeys and turkey 



510 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



vultures: the need to thermoregulate behaviorally." Biotropica 14(3)(1982): 
228-31. 

-. "Tree-rubbing behavior of a solitary male howler monkey." Primates 



23(2) (1982) :303-6. 

HISTORY AND ART 

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART 

Karlstrom, Paul J. Essays on DeWain Valentine, John McLaughlin, Robert 
Bechtel, Nathan Oliveira, Craig Kauffman, Charles Burchfield, and John 
Marin in Contemporary Artists. 2d ed. London: St. James Press, 1983. 

. "Henri Fantin-Latour, Master of 'Persistence Before Nature.' " Smith- 
sonian (July 1983) -.72-77. 

Claude Buck: American Symbolist, 1890-1974. San Francisco: Glas- 



tonbury Gallery, 1983. 
McCoy, Garnett. From the Life of the Artist: A Documentary View of David 

Smith. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 
Pennington, Estill Curtis. "Late Nights and Hot Jazz." In Gerald Murphy: 

Toward an Understanding of his Art and Inspiration. Washington, D.C. : 

The Federal Reserve Board, 1983. 

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM 

Dee, Elaine Evans. Contributor to Master Drawings from the Rhode Island 

School of Design. Providence: Rhode Island School of Design Museum, 

1983. 
McFadden, David Revere. "Craft and Design, the Scandinavian Connection." 

Craft International, October 1982. 
. "Excellence by Design: Metalwork from Scandinavia." Metalsmith, 

Fall 1982. 

. "American and British Silver." Apollo, March 1983. 

'With Loving Detail: The Scandinavian Marriage of Craft and Indus- 



try." Industrial Design, May/June 1983. 

-. "Documents of Design: Silver at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum." The 



Magazine Silver, 1983. 

"Historical Revivals in Glass." Journal of the Glass Art Society, 1983. 



Taylor, Lisa. [Foreword] Faberge: Jeweler to Royalty. New York: Cooper- 
Hewitt Museum, 1983. 

. [Foreword] Variations on a Theme: Embellished Elevations of the 

Carnegie Mansion. New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum, 1983. 

FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Atil, Esin, ed. and trans. [Exhibition catalogue] Anatolian Civilisations: Seljuk 

and Ottoman. Istanbul: Topkapi Place Museum, 1983. 
Cort, Louise Allison. [Review] "Song Ceramics by Mary Tregear." American 

Craft (October/November 1982). 
. [Review] "Nabeshima," "Agano and Takatori," "Folk Kilns I," "Folk 

Kilns II," and "Kakiemon." Ars Orientalis 13(1982). 

. "Access to Pots." Studio Potter 11, no. 2 (June 1982). 

Translation of resume for Tokugawa Yoshinobu, Chatsubo. Kyoto: 



Tankosha, 1982. 
Curry, David Park. "Charles Lang Freer and American Art." Apollo 118, no. 

258 (August 1983) :169-79. 
FitzHugh, Elisabeth West, with Lynda A. Zycherman. "An Early Man-Made 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 511 



Blue Pigment from China — Barium Copper Silicate." Studies in Conserva- 
tion 28 (1983) :15-23. 

Fu, Shen C. Y. "Chang Dai-chien (1899-1983) and Shih-tao (1641-1707." 
Hsiung shih Art Monthly, no. 5 (1983). 

. Masterpieces of Chinese Calligraphy in American and European Col- 
lections. Vol. 5. Tokyo, 1983. 

Murray, JuUa K. "The Role of Art in the Southern Sung Dynastic Revival." 
Bulletin of Sung-YUan Studies, no. 19. Forthcoming. 

. "Some Problems Concerning China's Early Copper and Bronze Arti- 
facts." Early China, no. 8. (Translation of An Chih-min.) Forthcoming. 
-, with Suzanne E. Cahill. "Recent Advances in Understanding the 



Mystery of Ancient Chinese 'Magic Mirrors': A Brief Summary of Chinese 

Analytical and Experimental Studies." Chinese Science, no. 7. Forthcoming. 
Lawton, Thomas. "China's Artistic Legacy." Apollo 118, no. 258 (August 

1983) :127-35. 

. "The Cold Treasure," Apollo 118, no. 258 (August 1983) :180-82. 

. [Exhibition catalogue] Chinese Art of the Warring States Period: 

Change and Continuity, 480-222 B.C. Washington, D.C. : Freer Gallery of 

Art, 1982. 
Shimizu, Yoshiaki. "Some Elementary Problems of the Japanese Narrative, 

Hiko-hoho-demi no Mikoto." Studia Artium Orientalis et Occidentalis 1 

(1982) :29-41. Osaka, Japan. 
. "An Individual Taste for Japanese Painting," Apollo 118, no. 258 

(August 1983) :136-49. 
Winter, John. "The Characterization of Pigments Based on Carbon." Studies 

in Conservation 28 (1983) :49-66. 
Yonemura, Ann. "Korean Art in the Freer Gallery of Art" (no. 5 in the series, 

"Korean Art in Western Collections"). Korean Culture 4, no. 2 (June 1983): 

4-15. 
. "A Pioneer Collection of Korean Art." Apollo 118, no. 258 (August 

1983) :150-53. 

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 

Lerner, Abram. [Foreword] Directions 1983 by Phyllis D. Rosenzweig. Wash- 
ington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press for Hirshhorn Museum and 
Sculpture Garden, 1983. 

. [Foreword] Dreams and Nightmares: Utopian Visions in Modern Art 

by Valerie Fletcher. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press for 
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, 1983. 

[Foreword] Friedel Dzubas by Charles W. Millard. Washington, D.C : 



Smithsonian Institution Press for Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, 
1983. 

-. [Foreword] Samuel Murray by Michael W. Panhorst. Washington, 



D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press for Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture 
Garden, 1982. 

-. [Foreword] Joseph Stella by Judith Zilczer. Washington, D.C: Smith- 



sonian Institution Press for Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, 1983. 

McCabe, Cynthia Jaffee. "'Wanted by the Gestapo: Saved by America' — 
Varian Fry and the Emergency Rescue Committee," in The Muses Flee 
Hitler: Cultural Transfer and Adaptation, 1930--1945, ed. Jarrell C Jackman 
and Carla M. Borden. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 
1983. 

Millard, Charles W. "Adolph Gottlieb." Hudson Review (Winter 1982-83): 
613-18. 



512 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



. "Jackson Pollock." Hudson Review (Summer 1983) :388-44. 

. Friedel Dzubas. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press for 

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, 1983. 

Panhorst, Michael W. Samuel Murray. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Insti- 
tution Press for Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, 1982. 

Rosenzweig, Phyllis D. Directions 1983. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Insti- 
tution Press for Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, 1983. 

Weil, Stephen E. "Breaches of Trust: Museums, Ethics and the Law." 
ARTnews 81(10) (December 1982):48-55. 

. "Breaches of Trust: Remedies and Standards in the American Private 

Museum." The biternational Journal of Museum Management and Curator- 
ship 2(1) (March 1983) :53-70. 

-. Beauty and the Beasts: On Museums, Art, the Law, and the Market. 



Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Zilczer, Judith. "In the Face of War: The Last Works of Raymond Duchamp- 
Villon." The Art Bulletin LXV, no. 1 (March 1983) :138-44. 

. Joseph Stella: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Collec- 
tion. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

-. Direct Carving in Modern Sculpture: Selections from the Museum 



Collection [exhibition checklist]. Washington, D.C: Hirshhorn Museum 
and Sculpture Garden, 1983. 

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS 

Reingold, Nathan. "Clio as Physicist and Mechanist." Reviews in American 

History 10 (December 1982) :264-80. 
. "Reflections of an Unrepentant Editor." The American Archivist 46 

(Winter 1983) :14-21. 
Rothenberg, Marc. The History of Science and Technology in the United 

States: A Critical and Selective Bibliography. New York and London: 

Garland Publishing, Inc., 1982. 
Stine, Jeffrey. "George Washington Goethals." APWA Reporter 50 (January 

1983) :4-5. 
. "Regulating Wetlands in the 1970s: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 

and the Environmental Organizations." Journal of Forest History 27 (April 

1983) :60-75. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART 

Freyer, Bryna, and Lifschitz, Edward. [Exhibition brochure] From the Earth: 

African Ceramic Art. Washington, D.C: National Museum of African Art, 

1983. 
Freyer, Bryna; Lifschitz, Edward; and Walker, Roslyn. [Exhibition brochure] 

African Emblems of Status. Washington, D.C: National Museum of African 

Art. 
Walker, Roslyn. [Exhibition brochure] African Art in Color. Washington, 

D.C. : National Museum of African Art, 1983. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART 

Bolton-Smith, Robin. "Fraser's Place in the Evolution of Miniature Portraits." 
In Charles Fraser of Charleston. Charleston, S.C: Gibbes Art Gallery, 1983. 

. [Introduction] Anson Dickinson, the Celebrated Miniature Painter, 

1779-1852. Hartford: Connecticut Historical Society, 1983. 

Breeskin, Adelyn D., and Mecklenburg, Virginia M. Jose de Creeft: Sculpture 
and Drawings. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 513 



Burke, Mary Alice Heekin. Elizabeth Nourse, 1859-1938: A Salon Career. 
Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Cosentino, Andrew J. [Checklist] The Capital Image: Painters in Washington, 
1800-1915. Washington, D.C, 1983. 

Decatur, Raylene. Clay for Walls: Surface Reliefs by American Artists. Wash- 
ington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Eldredge, Charles C [Foreword] Elizabeth Nourse, 1859-1938: A Salon Career. 
Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

. [Foreword] Jose de Creeft: Sculpture and Drawings. Washington, 

D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

-. [Preface] Claude Buck: American Symbolist 1890-1974. San Fran- 



cisco: Glastonbury Gallery, 1983. 

Fink, Lois Marie. "Elizabeth Nourse: Painting the Motif of Humanity." In 
Elizabeth Nourse, 1859-1938: A Salon Career. Washington, D.C: Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Flint, Janet A. The Prints of Louis Lozowick: A Catalogue Raisonne. New 
York: Hudson Hills Press, 1982. 

. Charles Hawthorne: The Late Watercolors. Washington, D.C: Smith- 
sonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Herman, Lloyd. Juror's statement in California Crafts Xlll. Sacramento, Calif. : 
The Creative Arts League of Sacramento, December 1982. 

. Essay in Trends in American Crafts (translated into Icelandic.) 

Reykjavik, Iceland: Kjarvalsstadir (City of Reykjavik Art Center), April 
1983. 

"Cranbrook: Fifty Years of Art and Craft." Museum, September/ 



October 1982. 

Juror's statement in catalogue for 1983 Ohio State Fair Fine Arts 



Exhibition. Columbus, Ohio, July 1983. 

Lewton, Jean L. Seven programs for 1982-83 season, "Evening at Barney 
Studio House," Washington, D.C. Designed by Smithsonian Institution 
Press, privately printed. October 1982 through April 1983. 

. Announcement of 1983-84 season, "Evening at Barney Studio House," 

Washington, D.C Designed by Smithsonian Institution Press, privately 
printed, 1983. 

Norelli, Martina R. American Wildlife Painting. New York: Galahad Books, 
1982. (Reprint of 1975 publication.) 

Rand, Harry. The Beginning of Things. [Translations, introduction, back- 
notes] San Francisco and Washington, D.C: Dryad Press, 1983. 

. Essay in Abstract Painting and Sculpture in America: 1927-1944. 

New York: Harry Abrams, 1983. 

. Essay in Kentucky Art 1983. Lexington: University of Kentucky, 1983. 

-. Jochen Seidel: Word Drawings. Vienna, Diisseldorf: Galerie Heike 



Curtze, 1983. 

'Examining the New Expressionism." Artists and Critics Forum 1, 



no. 3 (Spring 1983). 
. "Notes and Conversation: John Raimondi." Arts Magazine (April 



1983). 

. "Style and Utility." Arts Magazine (June 1983). 

. "Jacob Kainen." [Exhibition review] Arts Magazine (March 1983). 

"Jim Dine: Recent Drawings." [Book review] Leonardo (Winter 1983). 



Sharpe, Margy P., ed. Arthur B. Carles (1882-1952): Painting with Color. 
Washington, D.C: Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, 1983. 

, assistant ed. Elizabeth Nourse, 1859-1938: A Salon Career. Washing- 
ton, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 



514 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Truettner, William H. [Introduction] Elizabeth Nourse, 1859-1938: A Salon 
Career. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Yarnall, James L. "John La Farge's 'New England Pasture Lands.' " Newport 
History 55, no. 3. (Summer 1982) :76-91. 

. "John La Farge's 'The Last Valley.' " Newport History 55, no. 4. 

(Fall 1982) :130-42. 

-. "Tennyson Illustration in Boston, 1864-1972." Imprint: Journal of the 



American Historical Print Collector's Society 7, no. 2. (Autumn 1982) :10-16. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY 

Department of Social and Cultural History 

Ahlborn, Richard E., and Rubenstein, Harry R. "Smithsonian Santos: Collect- 
ing and the Collection." In Hispanic Arts and Ethnohistory in the South- 
west, ed. Marta Weigle, with Claudia Larcombe and Samuel Larcombe, pp. 
243-79. Santa Fe: Ancient City Press, 1983. 

Ahlborn, Richard E. "Frontier Possessions: Glossary of Material Culture 
Terms in Documentary Sources" and "Glossary of Material Culture Terms 
in Documentary Sources." In Colonial Frontiers: Art and Life in Spanish 
New Mexico, ed. Christine Mather, pp. 35-69. New Mexico: Ancient City 
Press, 1983. 

Bird, William L. "A Suggestion Concerning James Smithson's Concept of 
'Increase and Diffusion.'" Technology and Culture 24 (April 1983). 

Harris, Elizabeth M. [Exhibition catalogue] The Fat and the Lean: American 
Wood Type in the 19th Century. Washington, D.C: National Museum of 
American History, 1983. 

Mayo, Edith P. "Contemporary Collecting." History News (Fall 1982). 

. "Women's History and Public History: The Museum Connection." 

The Public Historian (Spring 1983). 

Roth, Rodris. "Seating for Anyplace: The Folding Chair." In Victorian Furni- 
ture, ed. Kenneth Ames, pp. 131-52. Nineteenth Century 8(3,4) (1982). 

Wright, Helena E. The Merrimack Valley Textile Museum: A Guide to the 
Manuscript Collections of the History of Science and Technology. New 
York & London: Garland Publishing, 1983. 

Department of the History of Science and Technology 

Davis, Audrey B. Commentary on "Changing Aspirations for Mental and 
Physical Health," by G. M. Carstairs. In How Humans Adapt: A Biocul- 
tural Odyssey, pp. 308-11. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 
1983. 

. "The Development of Anesthesia." American Scientist 70(1982) :522- 

28. 

. "The Development of Anesthesia." Virginia Dental Journal 60(1983) : 

12-24. 

"The Rise of the Vitamin-Medicinal as Illustrated by Vitamin D." 



Pharmacy in History 24(1982) :59-72. 

-, ed. Newsletter, History of Science, 11, 12. 



Emerson, William K. Chevrons: Illustrated History and Catalog of U.S. Army 
Insignia. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

Forman, Paul. "Atomic Clocks: Preview of an Exhibit at the Smithsonian. In 
Proceedings of the 36th Annual Frequency Control Symposium, pp. 220-22. 
Ft. Monmouth, New Jersey: U.S. Army Electronics Research and Develop- 
ment Command, 1983. 

. "A Venture in Writing History." Science 220(1983) :824-27. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 515 



Harris, Michael R.; Ezell, Edward C; and Burton, Elsa M. [Exhibition cata- 
logue] M.*A*S*H: Binding Up the Wounds. New York: George Fenmore 
Associates, Inc., 1983. 

Hindle, Brooke. Emulation and Invention. (Paperback ed.) New York; W. W. 
Norton, 1983. 

. "Then and Now: Necessity Is Not the Mother of Invention." Ameri- 
can Heritage 34(December 1982) :8-9. 

. "The Contriving Mind. Science Digest 90(February 1983) :48. 

"Technology Through the 3-D Time Warp." Technology and Culture 



24(July 1983) :450-64. 

-; Richardson, Edgar P., and Miller, Lillian B. Charles Willson Peale 



and His World. New York: Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 1982. 

Jackson, Everett A. "Treasures from the National Collections" column. Bulle- 
tin of the History of Dentistry. 

Kondratas, Ramunas A. "The Biologies Control Act of 1902." In The Early 
Years of Federal Food and Drug Control, ed. J. H. Young, pp. 8-27. Madi- 
son, Wis.: American Institute of the History of Pharmacy, 1982. 

Langley, Harold D. "Edward Field: A Pioneer Practitioner of the Old Navy." 
Connecticut Medicine 46(November 1982) :667-72. 

. "The Sailor's Life." In Fighting For Time, pp. 361-95. Vol. 4 in The 

Image of War: 1861-1865, ed. William C. Davis. Garden City: Doubleday 
& Co., 1983. 

Merzbach, Uta C. "Emmy Noether: Historical Contexts." In Emmy Noether in 
Bryn Mawr, ed. Bhama Srinivasen and Judith Sally. Proceedings of a sym- 
posium sponsored by the Association for Women in Mathematics in Honor 
of Emmy Noether's 100th birthday. New York: Springer- Verlag, Inc., 1983. 

Multhauf, Robert P. "Comment une culture technologique s'est developee aux 
Etats-Unis." In Science, Technique, et Industrie: Un Patrimoine des Per- 
spectives, pp. 163-71. Paris: Seminaries de I'Ecole du Louvre, 1983. 

Noble, David. Introduction to Ernst, Dieter, The Global Race in Microelec- 
tronics. Hamburg, Germany: Campus Press, 1983. 

. "Science for Sale: Academic, Incorporated." Science for the People, 

February 1983. 

-. "Present Tense Technology." (Two-part article.) Democracy, April 



and July 1983. 
Schlebecker, John T. "The Use of Objects in Historical Research." In Material 

Culture Studies in America, ed. Thomas J. Schlereth, pp. 106-13. Nashville: 

American Association for State and Local History, 1982. 
; Sharer, G. Terry; and Walther, Robert G., editorial staff. The Living 

Historical Farms Bulletin, vol. 13. 
Vogel, Robert M. Building Brooklyn Bridge — the Design and Construction, 

1867-1883. Washington, D.C. : National Museum of American History, 

1983. 
Walther, Robert G. "Forest History Museums." Encyclopedia of American 

Forest and Conservation History. Santa Cruz: Forest History Society, 1983. 
White, John H., Jr. A Short History of American Locomotive Builders in the 

Steam Era. Washington, D.C: Bass, Inc., 1982. 
White, Roger B. "Whither the Urban History Exhibit? The Peale Museum's 

'Rowhouse.' " Technology and Culture 24(January 1983) :76-90. 

Office of Public and Academic Programs 

Morrison, Howard A. "George Washington: What Manner of Man." In 
George Washington: His Life and Legacy, ed. Marc Lipsitz. Washington, 
D.C. : American Studies Center, 1983. 



516 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



National Philatelic Collections 

Newman, Lowell. "Barboursville, Virginia: A New Straightline Marking." 

SPA Journal 45(2) -.95-98. 
. "Charlottesville, Virginia: Handstamped postal markings 1845-1970." 

The Congress Book 1982, 48th American Philatelic Congress (1982) :141-50. 

. "The Wreck of the Hungarian." SPA Journal 45(5):301-2. 

"Louisville and Cairo Steamboat: The Handstamped Marking." The 



American Philatelist 97(2) :147-48, 182. 
Norby, Reidar, and Engstrom, Victor E., eds. Danish West Indies Mails, 1754- 
1917. Vol. 3. Washington, D.C. : Scandinavian Philatelic Printing and Pub- 
lishing Company, 1981. 

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 

Dearborn, Mona Leithiser. Anson Dickinson The Celebrated Miniature Painter 
1779-1852. Hartford: Connecticut Historical Society, 1983. 

Education Department Staff. Portraits in Motion Program Notes: "Walt Whit- 
man: Liberal and Lusty as Nature" (October 1982); "The Legend of Sleepy 
Hollow (October 1982); "The Yellow Wallpaper" (November 1982); "Moby 
Dick" (November 1982); "The Children of Pride Play Series" (November 
1982); "John Brown's Body (December 1982); "Oh, Mr. Faulkner, Do You 
Write?" (December 1982); "In Good Company" (December 1982); "A Visit 
with Charles Willson Peale" (December 1982); "Let Us Now Praise Famous 
Men" (March 1983); "Not Above a Whisper" (April 1983); "Ever So 
Humble" (May 1983); "The Sage of Emporia" (April 1983); "Affectionately, 
Fanny Kemble" (June 1983); "Playing the Palace" (September 1983). 

Fabian, Monroe H. Mr. Sully, Portrait Painter. Washington, D.C: Smithsoni- 
an Institution Press, 1983. 

. "Thomas Sully." Art & Antiques 6(3)(May/June 1983) :42-47. 

Hart, Sidney. [Review] Mr. Peale' s Museum: Charles Willson Peale and the 
First Popular Museum of Natural Science and Art by Charles Coleman 
Sellers. Winterthur Portfolio 17(2/3) (Summer/Autumn 1982). 

Henderson, Amy. [Review] Travels In America, 1851-1855 by Rosalie Roos. 
Translated and edited by Carl L. Anderson. History: Reviews of New Books 
(February 1983) :85. 

. [Review] Alexander Hamilton by Jacob E. Cooke. History: Reviews 

of New Books (February 1983) :99. 

-. [Review] Frederick Remington: A Biography by Peggy and Harold 



Samuels. Georgia Historical Quarterly (Spring 1983). 

Hollywood Portrait Photographers, 1921-1941. National Portrait 



Gallery (February 1983). 

Miles, Ellen G. "Portraits of the Heroes of Louisbourg, 1745-1751." American 
Art Journal 15(1) (Winter 1983):48-66. 

Miller, Lillian B. "Charles Willson Peale: A Life of Harmony and Purpose." 
In Charles Willson Peale and His World by Edgar P. Richardson, Brooke 
Hindle, and Lillian B. Miller. New York: Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 1983. 

Pachter, Marc. "American Cosmopolitanism 1870-1910." In Impressions of 
a Gilded Age; The American Fin de Siecle by Marc Chenetier and Rob 
Kroes. European Contributions to American Studies, VI Amerika Instituut, 
Amsterdam, 1983. 

. "The Rise of New York City." Humanities 4(3) (August 1983). 

Reaves, Wendy Wick. "A Print of 'Daddy' Pilmore by John Norman." Amer- 
ican Art Journal 4(August 1982):81-85. 

. "American Icon: The Eighteenth-Century Image of George Washing- 
ton." Imprint 7(Autumn 1982) :l-9. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 517 



. "Heroes, Marytrs, and Villains: Printed Portraits of the Civil War." 

Print Council of America Newsletter (1983) :8-12. 
Ward, David C. [Review] American Notes: Rudyard Kipling's West by Rud- 

yard Kipling, ed. Arrell Morgan Gibson. History: Reviews of New Book 10 

(September 1982). 
Yellis, Ken. Roundtable Reports: The Journal of Museum Education 8(1-4). 

OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES 

Washburn, Wilcomb E. "Spanish King Reflects on the New World." Op-Ed 
page, The Miami News, November 16, 1982. 

. "Leftist Academics and Ethnic Minorities." Op-Ed page. The Wash- 
ington Times, December 30, 1982. 

"Reflections on the Bibliographic Revolution in Arctic Studies." Arc- 



tica 1978, Seventh Northern Libraries Conference, Paris, September 19-23, 
1978. Paris : Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (1982) :327-29. 

[Introduction] Narratives of North American Indian Captivity, 311 



titles in 111 volumes, in Narratives of North American Indian Captivity: A 
Selective Bibliography, by Alden T. Vaughan. New York: Garland Publish- 
ing, Inc., 1983. 

"Prava amerikanskikh indeitsev" [The Rights of American Indians]. 



Amerika, no. 315 (February 1983) :2-4, 21. 

"The Successors to Bullets." Op-Ed page. The Washington Times, 



May 3, 1983. 

[Foreword] Captivity of the Oatman Girls [first published 1857], by 



R. B. Stratton. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1983. 

"The Supreme Court's Use and Abuse of History." OAH [Organiza- 



tion of American Historians] Newsletter Volume 11, no. 3 (August 1983) : 
7-9. 

"Family Resemblance to the Brezhnev Doctrine," Op-Ed page. The 



Washington Times, August 1, 1983. 

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY 

Blackman, M. J., and Nagle, C. "Characterization of Dorset Paleo-Eskimo 
Nephritic Jade Artifacts from Central Labrador, Canada." Proceedings of 
the 22nd Symposium on Archaeometry, Bradford, U.K.: University of Brad- 
ford (March 30-April 3, 1982) :411-19. 

Blackman, M. J. "The Manufacture and Use of Burned Lime Plaster at Proto- 
Elamite Anshan (Iran)." In Early Pyrotechnology, ed. T. A. Wertime and 
S. F. Wertime, pp. 107-15. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution 
Press, 1982. 

DeAtley, S. P.; Blackman, M. J.; and Olin, J. S. "Comparison of Data Ob- 
tained by Neutron Activation and Electron Microprobe Analyses of Ce- 
ramics." In Archaeological Ceramics, ed. J. S. Olin and A. Franklin, pp. 
107-15. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

Mishara, J. "Early Hydraulic Cements." In Early Pyrotechnology, ed. T. A. 
Wertime and S. F. Wertime, pp. 125-34. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian 
Institution Press, 1982. 

Olin, J. S., and Franklin, A., eds. Archaeological Ceramics. Washington, D.C: 
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982. 

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

Native American Museums Program/Office of Museum Programs. Bibliog- 
raphy on Native American Museums and Related Issues. Washington, D.C: 
Smithsonian Institution, 1983. 



518 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Spiess, Philip D., II. "The Schuetzenbuckel: Cincinnati Perpetuates an Old 
German Custom." Festschrift for the German-American Tricentennial 
Jubilee, Cincinnati, 1983. The Cincinnati Historical Society Studies in Re- 
gional and Local History, no. 2., ed. Don Heinrich Tolzmann. Cincinnati: 
Cincinnati Historical Society, 1982-83. 

Survey of Audiovisual Programs Produced by the Smithsonian Institution. A 
staff reference list. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution, 1982-83. 

Booklets 

Borowski, Elena. Conservation Bookbinding. Technical Booklet CBV-90. Office 
of Museum Programs, Smithsonian Institution, 1982-83. 

Borowski, Elena. Communication: More than Sounds. Technical Booklet CIV- 
91. Office of Museum Programs, Smithsonian Institution, 1983. 

Crow, Eleanor, and Andrews, Patrice. The Care of East Asian Paintings. Tech- 
nical Booklet EAS-15. Office of Museum Programs, Smithsonian Institution, 
1982-83. 

Fuller, Nancy. Tribal Archives. Technical Booklet TAS-16. Office of Museum 
Programs, Smithsonian Institution, 1982-83. 

Evaluation Studies in Museology 

Wolf, Robert L., and Cave, Jenny. "Don't Brush Your Teeth Anymore. Tooth- 
paste's Got Earth In It!" A Study of the Role That Objects Play in the 
Experience of the Visitors to a Museum, National Museum of Natural 
History, Smithsonian Institution. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, 1983. 

Non-Print Media 

Videotapes: 
Museum Accessibility for the Visually Impaired Visitor 
Conservation Bookbinding 
Communication: More than Sounds 
On Guard: Protection is Everyone's Business 

Slide Programs: 
The Care of East-Asian Paintings 
Tribal Archives 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES 

Bain, Alan L. "The Archivist." In "Keeping Our Own House in Order: The 
Importance of Museum Records," ed. Carole Schwartz. Museum News 61 
(1983) :44-48. 

Cox, William E. "Guide to the Papers of Waldo LaSalle Schmitt." Guides to 
Collections in the Smithsonian Archives, no. 1. Archives and Special Collec- 
tions of the Smithsonian Institution. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Ar- 
chives, 1983. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 

Bedini, Silvio A. At the Sign of the Compass and Quadrant. The Life and 
Times of Anthony Lamb, Mathematical Instrument Maker of New York. 
Philadelphia: American Philosophical Society, 1983. 

. [Review] Leonardo da Vinci: The Marvellous Works of Nature and 

Man, by Martin Kemp, /sis 73, no. 4 (1982) :601. 

"Die mechanische Uhr in Japan and China." Alte Uhren (April 1982) : 



287-93, (January 1983) :18-24. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 519 



. "Sun Time/' Europeo 10 (March 1983) :39-53. 

. "The Vatican Library and Archives." In The Bowker Annual of 

Library and Book Trade Information, 28th ed., pp. 419-27. New York: 
R. R. Bowker Co., 1983. 

Child, Margaret. "Reflections on Cooperation among Professions." American 
Archivist 46, no. 3 (Summer 1983) :286-92. "Federal Funds for Archivists: A 
View From NEH." American Archivist 45, no. 4 (Fall 1982) :469-71. 

Chilmonczyk, Dianne. "Program for Interns and Volunteers in the Field of 
Special Collections Cataloguing in the Smithsonian Institution Libraries." 
Journal of Education for Librarianship 23, no. 4 (1983). 

Goodwin, Jack. "Current Bibliography in the History of Technology (1981)." 
Technology and Culture 24 (April 1983) :316-98. 

. Exhibition of Trade Catalogues: Clothing and Allied Industries. 

Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Libraries, 1983. 

Jopling, Carol. Un Sistema de Informacion En-Linea: DIALOG. Grupo Pana- 
meno de Informacion Agricola, Memoria de la Tercera Reunion Panamena 
de Informacion Agricola. Panama, 21 de octubre de 1982. (1983). 

Levin, Amy Evans. Part-Time Work: A Bibliography. Alexandria, Va. : Asso- 
ciation of Part-time Professionals, Inc., 1982. 

Maloy, Robert. "Cultural/Scholarly Information." In Education for Informa- 
tion Management: Directions for the Future, ed. Eric H. Boehm and Michael 
K. Buckland, pp. 73-84. Santa Barbara: International Academy at Santa 
Barbara, 1983. 

Raitt, Mildred D. "Standards in Binding." Scholarly Publishing 14, no. 2 
(February 1983) :187-89. 

Rey, Joyce M. Information Sources and Services in Astronomy, Astrophysics 
and Related Space Sciences. Smithsonian Institution Libraries Research 
Guide, 2. Cambridge, Mass.: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, 1983. 

Rosenfeld, Mary Augusta. [Review] Collection Development and Acquisitions, 
1970-80: an annotated critical bibliography, by Irene P. Godden, Karen W. 
Fachan, and Patricia A. Smith. AXIS 6, no. 1 (February 1983). 

Saquet, Janette. Register to the Papers of Frank Hanna Roberts Jr. National 
Anthropological Archives Finding Aid, no. 3. Washington, D.C: National 
Anthropological Archives, 1983. 

Stanley, Janet L. [Review] Crafts and the Arts of Living in the Cameroon, 
by Jocelyne Etienne-Nugue. Africa Today 29, no. 4 (1982) :64. 

. [Review] Flash of the Spirit: African and Afro-American Art and 

Philosophy, by Robert Farris Thompson. Library Journal (July 1983). 

[Review] Guide to the Hoover Institution Archives, by Charles G. 



Palm and Dale Reed. Africa Today, no. 4 (1982) :46. 

[Reviews] Kenya [and] Tunisia. Clio Press' World Bibliography series. 



Library Journal (August 1982). 

[Review] Tribal and Ethnic Arts. Library Journal (September 1, 1982). 



Toney, Stephen R. "Telefacsimile Experiment at the Smithsonian Institution 
Libraries," The Serials Librarian 7, no. 2 (Winter 1982) :17-26. 

Wells, Ellen. "Charting the History of Science," AB Bookman's Weekly (Sep- 
tember 12, 1983) :1491-96. 

. "Scientists' Libraries: A Handlist of Printed Sources." Annals of 

Science 40, no. 4 (July 1983) :317-89. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION 
SERVICE PUBLICATIONS 

Books and Exhibition Catalogues 
Adelson, Laurie, and Tracht, Arthur. Aymara Weavings: Ceremonial Textiles 



520 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



of Colonial and 19th Century Bolivia. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian 

Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1983. 
Boxer, David. Jamaican Art: 1922-1982. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian 

Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1983. 
Nygren, Edward J. John Singer Sargent: Drawings from the Corcoran Gallery 

of Art. Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition 

Service, 1983. 
Stevens, Andrea, ed. Update, 1982-83. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institu- 
tion Traveling Exhibition Service, 1982. 
White, Joyce C Ban Chiang: Discovery of a Lost Bronze Age. Washington, 

D.C: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1982. 

Paper Panel Exhibitions 

Black Women: Achievements Against the Odds. Washington, D.C: Smith- 
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1983. 

Colorful Kite Tales. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Traveling 
Exhibition Service, 1983. 

Booklets 

American Porcelain Daily. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Travel- 
ing Exhibition Service, 1983. 

Chambers, Katherine A., ed. Siteline, nos. 15, 16. Washington, D.C: Smith- 
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1982-83. 

Fitzhugh, William, and Kaplan, Susan. Inua: Spirit World of the Bering Sea 
Eskimo. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition 
Service, 1982. 

Jamaican Art, 1922-1982. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Travel- 
ing Exhibition Service, 1983. 

Lambert, Luna. The Seasonal Trade: Holiday Gift and Greeting Cards. Kansas 
City, Mo.: Hallmark Cards, 1982. 

Peck, Robert McCracken. A Celebration of Birds: Louis Agassiz Fuertes and 
His Art. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition 
Service, 1982. 

Stapp, Will. Brady's Gallery. Photographs from the Frederick Hill Meserve 
Collection at the National Portrait Gallery. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian 
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1983. 

Studied Beauty: Portraits by Cecil Beaton. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian 
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1983. 

Posters 

American Porcelain 

Aspects of Color: Works on Paper from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture 

Garden 
Ban Chiang: Discovery of a Lost Bronze Age 
A Celebration of Birds: Louis Agassiz Fuertes and His Art 
China From Within 
Jamaican Art: 1922-1982 

Kings, Heroes and Lovers: Pictorial Rugs from the Tribes and Villages of Iran 
The Seasonal Trade: Holiday Gift and Greeting Cards 
Studied Beauty: Portraits by Cecil Beaton 

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS 

Ancelet, Barry, and James, Kathy, eds. Vivre Pour Manger: Cajun and Aca- 
dian Cooking. Washington, D.C: Stnithsonian Institution, 1983. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 521 



Rinzler, Ralph; Sweezy, Nancy; and Wagner, Paul. Jugtown: Pottery Tradi- 
tion in Change. (A documentary film.) Smithsonian Folklife Studies Series. 
Washington, D.C. : Smithsonian Institution, 1983. 

Vennum, Thomas, Jr. The Ojihawa Dance Drum: Its History and Construction. 
Smithsonian Folklife Studies Number 2. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian 
Institution Press, 1982. 

, ed. 1983 Festival of American Folklife Program Book. Washington, 

D.C. : Smithsonian Institution, 1983. 

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS 

Dillon, Wilton 5. Commentary on "The Natural Past and the Human Future: 
An Introductory Essay." In How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey, 
ed. Donald J. Ortner. Washington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 
1983. 

. "Adaptability: A Curse or a Technique of Survival?" [Epilog]. In 

How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey, ed. Donald J. Ortner. Wash- 
ington, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. 

'On Gifts and Violence." In International Violence, ed. Tunde Ade- 



niran. University of Ibadan,*and Yonah Alexander, Center for Strategic and 
International Studies (Georgetown) and Institute for Studies in Interna- 
tional Terrorism (SUNY). New York: Praeger Publishers. 

PUBLIC SERVICE 

OFFICE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

SMITHSONIAN GALAXY — 104 2V2-minute radio features. 

RADIO SMITHSONIAN — 52 half-hour radio programs. 
The partial listing of "Radio Smithsonian" segments, which follows, contains 
material based on research done by Smithsonian curators or other personnel: 

"Salt Water Crops" Plants that can grow in salt water may hold the key 

to global food needs. (RBL) October 11, 1982. 
"Racoons, Possums and Skunks" Scientists are learing how much we don't 

know about some of our fine furry friends. (NZP) October 11, 1982. 
"Return of the Golden Lion Tamarin" A look at a program to return the 

Tamarin to its native Brazilian jungle. (NZP) October 11, 1982. 
"Charles G. Shaw: At the Epicenter of the 20th Century" This famous 

artist, author, and historian of the 1920s has been rediscovered at the Ar- 
chives of American Art. (NMAA) October 18, 1982. 
"Anthropological Crime Fighters" Smithsonian anthropologist Douglas 

Ubelaker frequently assists the FBI in reconstructing human lives from 

fragmentary remains. (MNH) October 25, 1982. 
"Templo Mayor" The discovery of the principal temple of the Aztecs in 

Mexico. (RAP) October 25, 1982. 
"Mystery of Bird Migration" Ornithologist Roger Pasquier explores the 

mysteries of bird migration. (Secretary's Office, MNH) October 25, 1982. 
"Signals from Deep Space" The Circinus pulsar, recently discovered by 

Smithsonian astronomers, provides new information about the lives of 

stars. (SAO) November 15, 1982. 
"Origins of Deserts" The role of man in the evolution of deserts is both 

misunderstood and exaggerated. (NASM) November 15, 1982. 
"The Russian Phoenix" From the ashes of its destruction by the German 

Luftwaffe in 1941, the Soviet Air Force rose to victory in 1945, having 



522 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



amassed the largest tactical air force in the world. (NASM) December 13, 
1982. 

"Ancient Skywatchers" A look at the astronomical and astrological studies 
of the people of ancient Mexico and Central America. (RAP) December 13, 
1982. 

"HERPlab" A new facility brings the public in direct contact with reptiles 
and amphibians. (NZP) December 20, 1982. 

"Island in the Sun" A Smithsonian research station at Carrie Bow Cay 
yields a wealth of information about life in the ocean. (MNH) January 10, 
1983. 

"Mammoth Discoveries" Tracking the mighty woolly mammoth through 
remains found from China to Washington, D.C. (MNH) January 10, 1983. 

"Astronomy for the 80's" From the Smithsonian's Astrophysical Observa- 
tory in Cambridge, scientists explore the origins, the substance, and the 
ultimate fate of the universe. (SAO) January 17, 1983. 

"They've Got an Awful Lot of Insects in Peru" A report on newly discov- 
ered species. (MNH) Janupary 31, 1983. 

"Twang II: The Story Continues" The saga of country & western music 
focuses on the depression years and the spread of country music via radio. 
(SI Press) February 7, 1983. 

"American Picture Palaces" An historical visit to America's great thrones 
of cinema by way of a Cooper-Hewitt exhibition. (SI Press, C-H) February 
21, 1983. 

"Secrets of the Chipmunk" Examining the lives of these thrifty, inde- 
pendent creatures. (SI Press) February 28, 1983. 

"Live From Mars" Presenting TV and radio transmissions from the surface 
of Mars via the Viking Lander. (NASM) March 14, 1983. 

"Atomic Clocks" Timekeeping at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa- 
tory is accurate to one second in 50 million years. (SAO) March 14, 1983. 

"Portraits of the Stars" The role of portrait photography in creating the 
stars of Hollywood's Golden Age (1925-1945). (NPG) March 21, 1983. 

"The Cold War Today" Woodrow Wilson Center Scholars compare the 
politics and ideologies of the United States and the Soviet Union today with 
those of the past four decades. (WWICS) March 28, 1983. 

"The Four-Cornered Earth" A comprehensive view of Native American 
science, technology, art and medicine from Smithsonian scientists and 
curators. (MAH, MNH, NASM) April 4, 1983. 

"More Biograffiti" More selections from entomologist John Burns's book 
of scientific poetry and puns. (MNH) April 11, 1983. 

"How It All Began" One of the world's leading researchers of the chem- 
ical evolution of life explores new evidence and new theories concerning 
the origin of life. (RAP) April 25, 1983. 

"How It All Continues" A tour of the Radiation Biology Laboratory and 
a look at the principal research programs. (RBL) April 25, 1983. 

"At the Heart of the Planet: Life In a Tropical Rain Forest" Scientists at 
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute study the intricate web of life 
in the rain forest, and search for ways to save the world's tropical forests 
from destruction. (STRI) May 9, 1983. 

"Two Traditions: Ceramics in Japan, Ceramics in Africa" Exploring dec- 
orative, artistic and practical uses of earthenware in the two cultures. 
(MAA, MNH) May 16, 1983. 

"Leaving the Farm?" American population and growth since WWII and 
an examination of new trends in American migrations. (WWICS) May 23, 
1983. 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 523 



"The Beginning and The End" The story of the universe — how it began 

and what its ultimate fate will be. {Smithsonian Magazine) June 6, 1983. 
"Anniversaries of Flight" Celebrating the first hot-air balloon launch and 

the first non-stop transatlantic flight. (NASM) June 13, 1983. 
"Antarctic Discoveries" Detailing the finding of the first land mammal 

fossil on the Antarctic continent. (MNH) June 27, 1983. 
"Freeze-Dried Pest Fighters" At the Smithsonian's freeze-dry lab, scien- 
tists are turning viruses into powder to combat gypsy moths. (MNH) June 

27, 1983. 
"Bugs of Summer" Kay Weisberg and Wendy Shay of the Smithsonian's 
Insect Zoo offer instructions on insect cookery. (MNH) June 27, 1983. 
"Discovering the Earth from Space" Scientists at the National Air and 

Space Museum's Center for Earth and Planetary Studies are using satellites 

to uncover new information about the earth's structure. (NASM) July 11, 

1983. 
"Wild Mothers" At the National Zoo, research is revealing a variety of 

mother- infant relationships among wild animals. (NZP) July 25, 1983. 
"Next Step with the Halophytes" Research scientist Bert Drake continues 

his pioneering studies of salt water plants. (RBL) July 25, 1983. 
"Old Bones" An eighty-thousand-year-old Egyption skeleton comes to the 

Smithsonian, where studies are underway to determine if the skeleton is a 

Neanderthal. (MNH) July 25, 1983. 
"The 1983 Festival of American Folklife" Highlights from this annual 

gala. (OAMERS) August 1, 1983. 
"The Secretary's Research Lab" Smithsonian Secretary S. Dillon Ripley 

is one of the world's foremost ornithologists and ecologists. He reviews 

his research in his laboratory in the Museum of Natural History. (MNH) 

Augustl5, 1983. 
"First Transatlantic Cable" The story of laying the first transatlantic 

cable in 1858. (MAH) August 15, 1983. 
"The Lady and The Spider" Ann Moreton, founder and president of the 

National Archnid Society, provides insights into the lives of her eight- 
legged friends. (RAP) August 22, 1983. 
"Lawn Life" Smithsonian lawn expert John Falk guides a family through 

a biological tour of their own lawn with the help of the family vacuum 

cleaner. (CBEC) August 22, 1983. 
"Is E.T. Really Out There?" Updates in the search for extraterrestrial life. 

(NASM) September 12, 1983. 
"Urban Cats" Tracking the ways and means of the common alley cat. 

(RAP) September 12, 1983. 
"When a Tree Falls" At the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in 

Panama, scientists trace the wide-ranging effects of tropical forest ecology. 

(STRI) September 19, 1983. 

HERE AT THE SMITHSONIAN . . . , — 20 2-minute TV features. 

This partial listing contains material based on research done by Smithsonian 

curators or other personnel: 

"Inside Meteorites" Exploring the many facets of meteorite collecting and 

research at the Smithsonian. (MNH) January 20, 1983. 
"Corals in Captivity" A look at the only coral reef in captivity living in 

an 1,800-gallon tank in the National Museum of Natural History. (MNH) 

January 20, 1983. 
"A Life with Aviation" A tribute to Paul Garber, a man who has done so 

much to make the National Air and Space Museum the world's favorite. 

(NASM) January 20, 1983. 



524 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



"The Universe in a Box" An exhibition of Joseph Cornell's highly ac- 
claimed art and a visit to the Joseph Cornell Study Center at the National 

Museum of American Art. (NMAA) January 20, 1983. 

"The Elephant's Tale" New tusks for the giant African bush elephant in 
the National Museum of Natural History, and a look back to when this 
creature was first mounted. (MNH) March 28, 1983. 

"A Museum for the Community" Going off the customary Washington 
tourist track to a vital small museum for the study of black American 
history and culture. (ANM) March 28, 1983. 

"The World of Mathew Brady" Examining the portrait photography from 
one of the most famous nineteenth-century studios. (NPG) March 28, 1983. 

"Video Astronomy" A look at the way astronomers are using a revolu- 
tionary new tool to produce highly detailed images of the sky that mean 
even more exciting discoveries are to come. (SAO) May 31, 1983. 

"France Meets New Jersey" The highlights from the annual Festival of 
American Folklife. (OAMERS) May 31, 1983. 

"Ballooning's 200th Birthday" Celebrating the anniversary of ballooning 
and tracing the milestones of balloon flight that followed. (NASM) May 31, 
1983. 

"An Invasion of Painters" The story of American painters in Brittany and 
Normandy. (NMAA) May 31, 1983. 

"American Picture Places" The good old days of glittery movie theaters 
are remembered by celebrated organist Gaylord Carter. (C-H) August 12, 
1983. 

"Time Capsule of the Revolution" The story of the Philadelphia, a Revo- 
lutionary War gunboat that was raised from Lake Champlain in 1935. 
(MAH) August 12, 1983. 

"The Smithsonian's Giant Squid" A visit to the National Museum of 
Natural History's star attraction, preserved in 150 gallons of alcohol. 
(MNH) August 12, 1983. 

"Design for People" A close-up look at a major exhibition of Scandi- 
navian design. (C-H) August 12, 1983. 

FILM PRODUCTIONS 

The following listing of films contains material based on research done by 

Smithsonian curators or other personnel: 

American Picture Palaces — 24 minutes. A vivid documentary of the "golden 

age" of movie theaters in the 1920s and 30s. (C-H) April 1983. 
The Quadrangle — 24 minutes. A chronicle of the development of the new 

museum complex with an emphasis on its educational value. (Secretary's 

Office) September 1983. 
That Damn Cowboy — 30 minutes. A new look at Theodore Roosevelt through 

the eyes of his biographer Edmund Morris. (NPG) September 1983. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 
Williams, Martin. "Monk Goes to College." Jazz Times (June 1982). 
. "Art Tatum: Not for the Left Hand Alone." American Music 1 (1) 



(Spring 1983). 

"Horses in Midstream: Count Basic in the 1950s." Annual Review of 



Jazz Studies 2 (1983). 
Williams, Martin, and Schuller, Gunther. Selection and Annotation for The 
Smithsonian Collection of Big Band Jazz (Record Album). 



Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff I 525 



SMITHSONIAN RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM 

The Smithsonian Associate. Janet W. Solinger, publisher/executive editor, and 
Joanne Dann, editor. 

Solinger, Janet W. "Museum Patronage: An International Perspective." Mm- 
seum Public Relations Journal, published by the International Council of 
Museums, July 1983. 

. "Teaching Science to Adults in a Museum Environment." Interna- 
tional Meeting of the Universities for Adults, Universite Populaire du Rhin, 
Mulhouse, France, May 1983. 

Invitations 

David Smith: Painter, Sculptor, Draftsman, November 1982. 
A Festive Evening in Space, June 1983. 

Lithograph 

Limited edition of 100, signed and numbered, commissioned from artist Rich- 
ard Haas. 

PUBLIC INFORMATION 

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS 

Office of Public Affairs. Smithsonian Institution — Welcome. 12 pages, 16 
black-and-white illustrations. 1983. 

. Smithsonian Institution — Research Reports. Three times per year. 

8 pages. 

-. Smithsonian Institution — Yesterday and Today. 98 pages, 18 black- 



and-white illustrations. 1983. 

READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC. 

RIF Newsletter. Published three times a year, the Newsletter reports on RIF 
activities nationwide. A technical assistance insert, addressing local proj- 
ects' requests for information on how to motivate youngsters to read, is in- 
cluded in Newsletters sent to RIF projects. The Newsletter reaches 20,000 
people throughout the United States and offshore territories. 

Books to Grow On: A Parent's Guide to Encouraging Young Readers. A maga- 
zine for parents of children from infancy to age 11. Books to Grow On 
was researched and developed under a grant from the John D. and Cath- 
erine T. MacArthur Foundation. Intended to aid parents in promoting read- 
ing in the home, the pilot issue was field tested in fall 1983 among an 
audience of parents whose children are served by RIF projects. 

/ Want You. A brochure to assist RIF projects in recruiting and training vol- 
unteers, published in honor of RIF's late founder, Margaret McNamara, 
with a grant from the National Home Library Foundation. 

Reading Is Fun: Tips for Parents of Children Age Birth to Eight Years. Guide- 
lines for parents on how to promote reading in the home. 

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. A pamphlet giving general information on RIF. 

Profiles. Descriptions of the 343 publishers and distributors that serve RIF 
projects. The Profiles list special discounts and services offered by each 
supplier and are distributed annually to all projects. 



526 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



APPENDIX 7. The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries, 
September 30, 1983 



OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY 

THE SECRETARY S. DILLON RIPLEY 

Executive Assistant James M. Hobbins 

Special Assistant Joseph Coudon 

Administrative Assistant 

(Correspondence) Mary Lynne McEIroy 

Administrative Assistant 

(Appointments) Mary Lee Nissley 

Supervisor, Secretary's Files Betty J. Edwards 

OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY 

The Under Secretary Phillip S. Hughes 

OFFICE OF THE SPECIAL ASSISTANT 
TO THE SECRETARY 

Special Assistant to the Secretary Richard H. Howland 

Curator, Smithsonian Institution 

Building James M. Goode 

Honorary Research Associate Paul H. Oehser 

OFFICE OF AUDITS 

Director Chris S. Peratino 

Assistant Directors Benedict T. Maltagliati 

Patrick J. Stanton 

SCIENCE 

Assistant Secretary for Science David Challinor 

Executive Officer Harold J. Michaelson 

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM 

Director Walter J. Boyne 

Executive Officer Marcel W. Mayer 

Administrative Officer Wendy A. Stephens 

Historian Emeritus Paul E. Garber 

Chief, Research and Development Hernan I. Otano 

Chief, Public Affairs and Museum 

Services Rita C. Cipalla 

Special Events Assistant Marilyn E. Lyons 



Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 527 



Museum Facilities Manager Claude D. Russell 

Deputy Director for Curatorial Sciences Donald S. Lopez 

Registrar Robin A. Schroffel 

Chief, Records Management Karl P. Suthard 

Chief, Office of Research Support . . Kerry M. Joels 

Chief, Education Division Janet K. Wolfe 

Docent and Tour Program Manager . . Patricia E. Johnston 
Chief, Special Projects and 

Publications Division Helen C. McMahon 

Editor Linda S. DuBro 

Chairman, Aeronautics Department . . . Edmund T. Wooldridge, Jr. 

Special Advisor for Technology Howard S. Wolko 

Senior Curator Robert C. Mikesh 

Curators Tom D. Crouch 

C. Glen Sweeting 

Associate Curators Von D. Hardesty 

Claudia M. Oakes 
Dominick A. Pisano 

Research Associate William M. Leary 

Chairman, Center for Earth and 

Planetary Studies Ted A. Maxwell 

Geologists Patricia A. Jacobberger 

Priscilla L. Strain 

Research Associate Constance G. Andre 

Chairman, Space Science and 

Exploration Department Paul A. Hanle 

Curator Louis R. Purnell 

Associate Curators David H. DeVorkin 

Gregory P. Kennedy 
Allan A. Needell 

Astronomer Von Del Chamberlain 

Research Historian Frank H. Winter 

Assistant Director for Resource 

Management M. Antoinette Smith 

Theater Manager Ronald E. Wagaman 

Operations/Technical Manager .... Ralph T. Johnston 

Assistant Director for Operations Edward B. Chalkley 

Chief, Production Operations Division Walter Roderick 

Supervisory Museum Special Alfred J. Bachmeier 

Chief, Exhibits Production Division . . Harold J. Pippin 

Chief, Exhibits Division Richard D. Crawford 

Exhibits Program Manager Patricia A. Woodside 

Editor Edna W. Owens 

Chief, Design Unit Lucius E. Lomax 

Chief, Audiovisual Unit John E. Hartman 

Chief, Spacearium Division James H. Sharp 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY/ 
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF MAN 

Director Richard S. Fiske 

Associate Director James F. Mello 

Special Assistant to the Director Catherine J. Kerby 

Special Assistant to the Director Bruce D. Smith 

Special Assistant to the Associate 



528 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Director Jerome A. Conlon 

Writer-Editor Thomas R. Harney 

Senior Budget Analyst Mary Rakow Tanner 

Budget Analyst Claretta Jackson Niles 

Management Analyst John C. Townsend, Jr. 

Registrar Margaret A. Santiago 

Building Manager Edward McCoy 

Supervisory Information and Education 

Specialist Joan C. Madden 

Information Systems Manager, 

Automatic Data Processing Program . T. Gary Gautier 

Acting Chief, Office of Exhibits Carl A. Alexander 

Supervisory Museum Specialist, 

Scanning Electron Microscope 

Laboratory Walter R. Brown 

Anthropology 

Chairman Douglas H. Ubelaker 

Administrative Assistant Clara Ann Simmons 

Conservation Laboratory, Supervisor . . . Carolyn L. Rose 

Illustrator, Supervisor George R. Lewis 

Processing Laboratory, Supervisor George E. Phebus 

(Resigned 5/31/83) 

Public Information Specialist Ruth O. Selig 

Curator, National Anthropological 

Archives Herman J. Viola 

Curator, Research Institute on 

Immigration and Ethnic Studies .... Roy S. Bryce-Laporte 

LATIN AMERICAN ANTHROPOLOGY 

Curator Robert M. Laughlin 

Associate Curator William H. Crocker 

Expert Betty J. Meggers 

NORTH AMERICAN ANTHROPOLOGY 

Curators William W. Fitzhugh 

Bruce D. Smith 
Dennis J. Stanford 
William C. Sturtevant 

Associate Curator William L. Merrill 

OLD WORLD ANTHROPOLOGY 

Curators Gordon D. Gibson 

(Retired 12/31/82) 
William B. Trousdale 
Gus Van Beek 

Associate Curators Adrienne Kaeppler 

Paul M. Taylor 

PHYSICAL ANTHROPOLOGY 

Curators J. Lawrence Angel 

Donald J. Ortner 
Douglas H. Ubelaker 

LINGUISTICS 

Curator R. H. Ives Goddard III 



Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 529 



RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS 

James Adovasio (Archeology) JoAnne Lanouette (Education) 

Larry Banks (Archeology) Paulina Ledergerber (Archeology) 

Virginia L. Bavendam (Ethnology) David Meltzer (Archeology) 

Kathleen J. Bragdon (Linguistics) Jerald T. Milanich (Archeology) 

Sarah Brett-Smith (Ethnology) Stephen Potter (Archeology) 

Alison S. Brooks (Archeology) Walter G. J. Putschar (Physical 

Ernest S. Burch, Jr. (Archeology) Anthropology) 

Claire M. Cassidy (Physical Saul H. Risenberg (Ethnology) 

Anthropology) Lucile E. St. Hoyme (Physical 

Henry B. Collins (Archeology) Anthropology) 

John C. Ewers (Plains Ethnology) T. Dale Stewart (Physical 

Don D. Fowler (Archeology) Anthropology) 
Bruno Frohlich (Physical Anthropology) Robert G. Schmidt (Geology) 

Gary Haynes (Archeology) Shirley J. Schwarz (Archeology) 

Brian C. Hesse (Archeology) Jean Umiker-Sebeok (Linguistics) 

Neil C. Hughes (Archeology) Paula C. Wapnish (Archeology) 

Tirachai Kambhu na Ayuttahaya Mildred M. Wedel (Archeology 

(Ethnology) and Ethnohistory) 

Eugene Knez (Ethnology) Waldo R. Wedel (Archeology) 

Richard T. Koritzer (Physical Pamela J. Wintle (Film Archives) 

Anthropology) 

Botany 

Chairman Mark M. Littler 

Administrative Assistant Nella F. Lloyd 

Collections Manager George F. Russell 

Senior Botanists Edward S. Ayensu 

Richard S. Cowan 
Mason E. Hale, Jr. 

PHANEROGAMS 

Curators Dan H. Nicolson 

Robert W. Read 
Stanwyn G. Shetler 
Dieter C. Wasshausen 
John J. Wurdack 

Associate Curators Robert B. Faden 

Vicki A. Funk 
Marie-Helene Sachet 
Laurence E, Skog 

FERNS 

Associate Curator David B. Lellinger 

GRASSES 

Curator Thomas R. Soderstrom 

CRYPTOGAMS 

Curator Harold E. Robinson 

Associate Curator James N. Norris 

PALYNOLOGY 

Curator Joan W. Nowicke 

PLANT ANATOMY 

Curator Richard H. Eyde 



530 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS 

Pamela Balough (Orchids) Alicia Lourteig (Neotropical Botany) 

Katina Bucher (Algae) Kittie F. Parker (Compositae) 

Jose Cuatrecasas (Flora of Tropical Duncan M. Porter (Phanerogams) 

South America) Muriel E. Poston (Loasaceae) 

Arthur Lyon Dahl (Algae) Clyde F. Reed (Phanerogams) 

Paul E. Desautels (Orchids) Velva E. Rudd (Leguminosae) 

James A. Duke (Flora of Panama) Amy Y. Rossman (Fungi) 

F. Raymond Fosberg (Tropical Edith E. B. Scott (Bryophyta) 

Island Plants) Lyman B. Smith (Flora of Brazil) 

Aaron Goldberg (Phanerogams) Frans A. Stafleu (Phanerogams) 

Charles R. Gunn (Seeds) William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy) 

LeRoy H. Harvey (Grasses) Phillip R. Taylor (Marine 
Mark Edward Hay (Marine Algae) Botanical Ecology) 

Joseph H. Kirkbride, Jr. (Rubiaceae) Edward E. Terrell (Phanerogams) 

James D. Lawrey (Lichens) Egbert H. Walker 
Elbert L. Little, Jr. (Dendrology) (East Asian Flora) 

Diane S. Littler (Marine Algae) 

Entomology 

Chairman Wayne N. Mathis 

Collections Manager Gary F. Revel 

Senior Scientist Karl V. Krombein 

NEUROPTEROIDS AND DIPTERA 

Curators Oliver S. Flint, Jr. 

Wayne N. Mathis 

LEPIDOPTERA 

Curators John M. Burns 

Don R. Davis 

W. Donald Duckworth 

Robert K. Robbins 

COLEOPTERA 

Curators Terry L. Erwin 

Paul J. Spangler 

HEMIPTERA AND HYMENOPTERA 

Curators Richard C. Froeschner 

Karl V. Krombein 

MYRIAPODA AND ARCHNIDA 

Curator Ralph E. Crabill, Jr. 

(Retired 1/83) 

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS 

Annette Aiello (Lepidoptera) Jerry Coyne (Diptera) 

Donald W. Anderson (Coleoptera) Hilary Crusz (Insects of Sri Lanka) 

Edward W. Baker (Mites) K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga) 

S. W. T. Batra (Hymenoptera) John H. Fales (Lepidoptera) 

S. Franklin Blanton (Diptera) Douglas C. Ferguson (Lepidoptera) 

Barnard Burks (Hymenoptera) Richard H. Foote (Diptera) 

Robert W. Carlson (Hymenoptera) John G. Franclemont (Lepidoptera) 

J. F. Gates Clarke (Lepidoptera) Raymond J. Gagne (Diptera) 

Carleton M. Clifford (Ticks) Robert D. Gordon (Coleoptera) 

Margaret S. Collins E. Eric Grissell (Hymenoptera) 



Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 531 



Ashley B. Gurney (Orthoptera) George W. Ravvson (Lepidoptera) 

Ralph E. Harbach (Diptera) Mary Livingston Ripley (General 
Thomas Henry (Hemiptera) Entomology) 

John B. Heppner (Lepidoptera) Louise M. Russell (Homoptera) 

Jon L. Herring (Hemiptera) Curtis W. Sabrosky (Diptera) 

Ronald W. Hodges (Lepidoptera) Jay C. Shaffer (Microlepidoptera) 

Harry Hoogstraal Sunthorn Sirivanakarn (Mosquitoes) 

(Medical Entomology) Robert L. Smiley (Mites) 

W. L. Jellison (Mites, Ticks) David R. Smith (Hymenoptera) 

James E. Keirans (Ticks) Theodore J. Spilman (Coleoptera) 

John M. Kingsolver (Coleoptera) George C. Steyskal (Diptera) 

Lloyd Knutson (Diptera) Manya B. Stoetzel (Homoptera) 

James P. Kramer (Homoptera) F. Christian Thompson (Diptera) 

Paul M. Marsh (Hymenoptera) Edward L. Todd (Lepidoptera) 

Arnold S. Menke (Hymenoptera) Robert Traub (Siphonaptera) 

Douglass R. Miller (Homoptera) Hayo H. W. Velthuis 
Scott E. Miller (Microlepidoptera) (Hymenoptera) 

Carl F. W. Muesebeck Ronald A. Ward (Medical 

(Hymenoptera) Entomology) 

David F. Nickle (Orthoptera) Richard E. White (Coleoptera) 

Paul A. Opler (Lepidoptera) Donald R. Whitehead (Coleoptera) 

Robert V. Peterson (Diptera) Willis W. Wirth (Diptera) 

Kenelm W. Philip (Lepidoptera) David Wooldridge (Coleoptera) 
Robert W. Poole (Noctuidae) 

Invertebrate Zoology 

Chairman Clyde F. E. Roper 

Senior Zoologist Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. 

Collections Manager Roland H. Brown 

Administrative Assistant Martha J. Vincellette 

CRUSTACEA 

Curators J. Laurens Barnard 

Thomas E. Bowman 
Roger F. Cressey 
Charles W. Hart, Jr. 
Louis S. Kornicker 
Raymond B. Manning 

Associate Curator Brian F. Kensley 



ECHINODERMS 

Curators 



MOLLUSKS 

Curators 



WORMS 

Curators . . 



Frederick M. Bayer 
David L. Pawson 
Klaus Ruetzler 



Richard S. Houbrick 
Clyde F. E. Roper 
Joseph Rosewater 

Kristian Fauchald 
Robert P. Higgins 
W. Duane Hope 
Meredith L. Jones 
Mary E. Rice 



532 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



REGISTRY OF TUMORS IN LOWER ANIMALS 

Director John Harshbarger 

Microbiologist Sing Chen Chang 

Histotechnologic Specialist Linda Cullen 

Museum Specialist Phyllis Spero 

Biological Research Assistants Michael Calabrese 

(Resigned 5/83) 
Christine Louton 
Research Assistant Marilyn Slatick 



RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS 



S. Stillman Berry 

J. Bruce Bredin 

Stephen D. Cairns 

Fenner A. Chace, Jr. 

Steven Chambers 

Stephen L. Gardiner 

Lipke B. Holthuis 

Roman Kenk 

J. Ralph Lichtenfels 

Patsy McLaughlin 

Charles G. Messing 

Katherine Muzik 

Isabel Perez-Farfante (Canet) 



Richard E. Petit 
Marian Pettibone 

(Emeritus Zoologist, Retired) 
Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr. 
Harald A. Rehder 

(Emeritus Zoologist, Retired) 
L G. Sohn 
Ronald B. Toll 
Geerart J. Vermeij 
Gilbert L. Voss 
Austin B. Williams 
David K. Young 



Mineral Sciences 

Chairman Robert F. Fudali 

Administrative Assistant Elizabeth E. Greene 

METEORITES 

Curators Roy S. Clarke, Jr. 

Brian H. Mason 
Geochemist Kurt Fredriksson 

MINERALOGY 

Associate Curator John Sampson White 

Crystallographer Daniel E. Appleman 

PETROLOGY AND VOLCANOLOGY 

Curators Richard S. Fiske 

William G. Melson 
Tom Simkin 

PHYSICAL SCIENCES LABORATORY 

Chemists Eugene Jarosewich 

Joseph A. Nelen 
Electronics Technician James E. Collins 

SCIENTIFIC EVENT ALERT NETWORK 

Museum Specialist Lindsay R. McClelland 

Museum Technician Janet Crampton 



Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 533 



RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS 

Vagn F. Buchwald (Meteorites) Martin Flower (Petrology and 
William C. Buell IV (Volcanology) Volcanology) 

Cathy Busby-Spera (Petrology) Edward Henderson (Meteorites) 

Gary R. Byerly (Petrology) Peter Leavens (Mineralogy) 

Felix Chayes (Petrology and Paul B. Moore (Mineralogy) 

Volcanology) Debra S. Stakes (Petrology and 
Suzanne P. DeAtley (Petrology and Volcanology) 

Volcanology) Geoffrey Thompson (Petrology and 
Robert T. Dodd (Meteorites) Volcanology) 

Donald Elthon (Petrology) Othmar T. Tobisch (Petrology and 
John Filson (Petrology and Volcanology) Volcanology) 

Michael Fleischer (Mineralogy) 

Paleobiology 

Chairman Ian G. Macintyre 

Curators Emeritus G. Arthur Cooper 

C. Lewis Gazin 

Collections Manager Frederick J. Collier 

Deputy Collections Manager Jann W. M. Thompson 

ADP Paleobiology Inventory, 

Supervisor Timothy M. Collins 

Paleobiological Information (Resigned 9/13/83) 

Specialist Raymond T. Rye II 

Scientific Illustrator Lawrence B. Isham 

Vertebrate Paleontology Preparation 

Laboratory, Supervisor Arnold D. Lewis 

Senior Scientists Richard E. Grant 

Porter M. Kier 

Senior Scientist and Geological 

Oceanographer Daniel J. Stanley 

Geologists Ian G. Macintyre 

Kenneth M. Towe 

Curators Walter H. Adey 

Richard H. Benson 
Richard S. Boardman 
Martin A. Buzas 
Alan H. Cheetham 
Richard Cifelli 
Robert J. Emry 
Nicholas Hotton III 
Francis M. Hueber 
Jack W. Pierce 
Clayton E. Ray 
Thomas R. Waller 

Associate Curator Anna K. Behrensmeyer 

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS 

Patricia Adey Daryl P. Domning 

Arthur J. Boucot Raymond C. Douglass 

Sankar Chatterjee J. Thomas Dutro, Jr. 

Anthony G. Coates Ralph E. Eshelman 

Josephine W. Cooper Jerzy A. Federowski 

Steven J. Culver Robert M. Finks 



534 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Frank A. Garcia 
Mackenzie Gordon, Jr. 
David Govoni 
Richard Graus 
Peter J. Harmatuk 
Jessica A. Harrison 
Bruce N. Haugh 
Joseph E. Hazel 
Leo J. Hickey 
S. Taseer Hussain 
Ralph W. Imlay 
Jeremy B. C. Jackson 
Zofia Kielan-Jaworowskia 
Gilbert Kelling 
Carl F. Koch 
N. Gary Lane 
Kenneth E. Lohman 
Venka V. Macintyre 
Andres Maldonado 
Sergius H. Mamay 
Robert B. Neuman 
William A. Oliver, Jr. 
Thomas F. Phelen 



John Pojeta, Jr. 
Roy H. Reinhart 
Charles A. Repenning 
Bruce Runnegar 
William J. Sando 
Judith Schneider 
Vincent P. Schneider 
Frederick R. Siegel 
Elwyn L. Simons 
Judith Skog 

Roberta K. Smith-Evernden 
Norman F. Sohl 
L Gregory Sohn 
Donald Spoon 
George D. Stanley, Jr. 
Steven M. Stanley 
Robert 5. Steneck 
Margaret Ruth Todd 
Ronald R. West 
Frank C. Whitmore, Jr. 
Druid Wilson 
Ellis P. Yochelson 



Vertebrate Zoology 

Chairman George R. Zug 

Collections Manager J. Phillip Angle 

Administrative Assistant Anna L. Datcher 

FISHES 

Curators Robert H. Gibbs, Jr. 

Victor G. Springer 
Stanley H. Weitzman 

Associate Curator Richard P. Vari 

AMPHIBIANS AND REPTILES 

Curators W. Ronald Heyer 

George R. Zug 

BIRDS 

Curators Storrs L. Olson 

George E. Watson 
Richard L. Zusi 

MAMMALS 

Curators Charles O. Handley, Jr. 

James G. Mead 

Richard W. Thorington, Jr. 

Associate Curator Michael D. Carleton 

secretary's research laboratory 

Administrative Specialist Adele Y. Issa 

Museum Specialist Bruce M. Beehler 



Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 535 



RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS 



John W. Aldrich (Birds) 

John S. Ash (Birds) 

Richard C. Banks (Birds) 

John C. Barber (Birds) 

William Belton (Birds) 

Michael A. Bogan (Mammals) 

Heraldo Britski (Fishes) 

Robert L. Brownell (Mammals) 

Daniel M. Cohen (Fishes) 

Bruce B. Collette (Fishes) 

Louise H. Emmons (Mammals) 

Robert K. Enders (Mammals) 

Carl H. Ernst (Reptiles and 
Amphibians) 

Alan Feduccia (Birds) 

Sara V. Fink (Fishes) 

William L. Fink (Fishes) 

Herbert Friedmann (Birds) 

Thomas H. Fritts (Amphibians and 
Reptiles) 

Jeffery Froehlich (Mammals) 
Alfred L. Gardner (Mammals) 
Michael Goulding (Fishes) 
Martha B. Hays (Birds) 
Richard Highton (Amphibians and 

Reptiles) 
George J. Jacobs (Amphibians and 

Reptiles) 
Frances C. James (Birds) 
Clyde J. Jones (Mammals) 
Warren B. King (Birds) 
Gordon L. Kirkland (Mammals) 
Irving L. Kornfield (Fishes) 
William H. Krueger (Fishes) 
Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds) 
Francisco Mago-Leccia (Fishes) 
Joe T. Marshall (Birds) 
Linda R. Maxson (Amphibians and 
Reptiles) 



Roy W. McDiarmid (Amphibians 

and Reptiles) 
Naercio Menezes (Fishes) 
Joseph C. Mitchell (Amphibians and 

Reptiles) 
Kenneth L Miyata (Amphibians 

and Reptiles) 
Ralph S. Palmer (Birds) 
Lynne R. Parenti (Fishes) 
William F. Perrin (Mammals) 
Allan R. Phillips (Birds) 
Ronald H. Pine (Mammals) 
Gregory K. Pregill (Amphibians 

and Reptiles) 
John E. Randall (Fishes) 
G. Carleton Ray (Mammals) 
Randall R. Reeves (Mammals) 
S. Dillon Ripley (Birds) 
C. Brian Robbins (Mammals) 
Alan H. Savitzky (Amphibians 

and Reptiles) 
Norman J. Scott, Jr. (Amphibians 

and Reptiles) 
William F. Smith- Vaniz (Fishes) 
David W. Steadman (Birds) 
Stephen G. Tilley (Amphibians 

and Reptiles) 
James C. Tyler (Fishes) 
Richard J. Wassersug (Amphibi- 
ans and Reptiles) 
Marilyn Weitzman (Fishes) 
John S. Weske (Birds) 
Ralph M. Wetzel (Mammals) 
Claudia F. Wilds (Birds) 
E. O. Wiley (Fishes) 
James D. Williams (Fishes) 
Don E. Wilson (Mammals) 
David B. Wingate (Birds) 



Handbook of North American Indians 

General Editor William C. Sturtevant 

Managing Editor Colin I. Busby 

Production Manager Diane Delia-Loggia 

Management Services Assistant Melvina Jackson 

Anthropologist Joanna C. Scherer 

Linguist R. H. Goddard III 

Librarian Lorraine H. Jacoby 

Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center 

Director Leslie W. Knapp 

Administrative Assistant Patricia Buckley 



536 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Marine Biologists Frank D. Ferrari 

Gordon Hendler 
Betty Landrum 
Ernani Menez 

Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port 

Administrative Officer June J. Jones 

Scientist in Charge Mary E. Rice 

Research Assistants William D. Lee 

Sherry Anne Petry 
Julianne Piraino 
Hugh F. Reichardt 

MUSEUM SUPPORT CENTER 

Director U. Vincent Wilcox 

Administrative Assistant Patti B. Young 

Collections Coordinator Wendy C. Jessup 

Data Manager Joan B. Andrews 

Shipping Officer Mary L. Sheridan 

Facility Manager Charles E. Dunn 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

Acting Director Christen M. Wemmer 

(Appointed 4/3/83) 

Special Assistant to the Director Robert J. Hoage 

Chief, Office of Management Services . . Vincent J. Doyle 

Chief, Office of Education Judith White 

Senior Advisor for Animal Programs . . Theodore H. Reed 

(Appointed 4/3/83) 
Acting Assistant Director for Animal 

Programs Devra G. Kleiman 

Executive Assistant, Animal Programs Jaren G. Horsley 
Registrar, Animal Programs Judith Block 

Department of Herpetology 
Curator Dale L. Marcellini 

Department of Mammalogy 

Curator Edwin Gould 

Research Primatologist Benjamin Beck 

Department of Ornithology 

Curator Eugene S. Morton 

Department of Zoological Research 

Acting Scientist-in-Charge Katherine S. Ralls 

(Appointed 4/3/83) 

Scientific Staff Eugene S. Morton 

John C. Seidensticker 

research associates and affiliated scientists 

(zoological research) : 

Associate in Ecology . S. Dillon Ripley 

Collaborators Kenhelm W. Stott 

Adelmar Coinbra-Filho John F. Eisenberg 

Wolfgang Dittus Richard Estes 



Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 537 



Richard Faust Jeffrey A. McNeely 

John Frazier Nancy Muckenhirn 

Kenneth M. Green John Robinson 

James G. Hallett Rasanayagam Rudran 

Susan Lumpkin Melvin Sunquist 

Charles McDougal Susan Wilson 

Department of Animal Health 

Veterinarian-in-Charge R. Mitchell Bush 

Associate Veterinarian Lyndsay Phillips, Jr. 

Animal Physiologist David Wildt 

Research Associates Michael D. Abramowitz 

Max J. Appel Seth A. Koch 

Kenneth C. Bovee Douglas W. McKay 

James W. Carpenter Stephen J. O'Brien 

M. Kathryn Hammock U. S. Seal 
A. Everette James, Jr. 
John Knight 

Department of Pathology 

Pathologist-in-Charge .• Richard J. Montali 

Research Associates Richard Alsaker 

Max J. G. Appel Bruce Smith 

Chris Gardiner John Strandberg 

Ted L. Hatfield Bernard Zook 

Department of Conservation, Front Royal, Virginia 

Curator-in-Charge Christen M. Wemmer 

Research Associates Jon Rood 

Charles McDougal 
Joel Berger 

Facility Manager John N. Williams 

Assistant Director for Support Services Gaetano G. Calise, Jr. 
Office of Construction Management 

Chief Donald Muddiman 

Office of Graphics and Exhibits Chief . . Robert L. Mulcahy 

Office of Facilities Management Chief . . Emanuel Petrella 

Office of Police, Safety, & Health Chief Samuel L. Middleton, Jr. 
Friends of the National Zoo 

Executive Director Sabin Robbins 

OFFICE OF BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION 

Director Edward S. Ayensu 

Coordinator Robert A. DeFilipps 

Program Administrator Marsha Cox 

OFFICE OF FELLOWSHIPS AND GRANTS 

Director Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth 

Assistant Director , . Roberta W. Rubinoff 

Administrative Officer Catherine F. Harris 

Grants Program Manager Francine C. Berkowitz 

Grants Program Assistant Jacki L. Precourt 

Academic Programs Specialist Edith McRee Whiteman 

Academic Programs Assistant Mary Estelle Kennelly 

Records Manager Grace Murphy 



538 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

Director (1982) George B. Field 

(1983) Irwin I. Shapiro 

Deputy Director John G. Gregory 

Yoram Avni Daniel E. Harris Mark Reid 

Eugene H. Avrett Lee W. Hartmann T. N. Rengarajan 

Robert VV. Babcock John P. Huchra Christopher Rogers 

Sallie Baliunas Luigi G. Jacchia Micheline C. Roufosse 

David R. Bates Christine Jones-Forman George B. Rybicki 

William Blair Wolfgang Kalkofen Rudolph E. Schild 

Gregory Bothun Elisabeth Kallne Matthew Schneps 

Nathaniel P. Carleton Jan Kallne Ethan J. Schreier 

Frederic Chaffee Kate Kirby Daniel A. Schwartz 

Kelly Chance David Koch Joseph Schwarz 

John F. Chandler John L. Kohl Frederick D. Seward 

John H. Chappell Robert L. Kurucz Jack W. Slowey 

Giuseppe Colombo Gregory Lafyatis David Soderblom 

Allan F. Cook Don Lamb Graeme Smith 

David L. Cooper David W. Latham Robert Stachnik 

Alexander Dalgarno Myron Lecar John Stauffer 

Robert J. Davis Alan P. Lightman Robert Stefanik 

Andrea K. Dupree Tommaso Maccacaro Steven Stabler 

Martin S. Elvis Richard E. McCrosky Eugene Symbalisty 

Giuseppina Fabbiano Brian G. Marsden Harvey D. Tananbaum 

Daniel G. Fabricant Ursula B. Marvin Wesley A. Traub 

Giovanni G. Fazio Edward M. Mattison Ginervra Trinchieri 

Edward L. Fireman Charles W. Maxson Wallace H. Tucker 

William R. Forman Gary Melnick Giuseppe S. Vaiana 

Jane L. Fox Peter Meszaros Leon P. van Speybroeck 

Fred A. Franklin James M. Moran Robert F. C. Vessot 

Larry Gardner Stephen S. Murray George A. Victor 

John C. Geary Philip Myers Yuli Vladimirsky 

Owen Gingerich Robert W. Noyes Trevor C. Weekes 

Isabella Gioia Keith Olive Rainer Wehrse 

Zachary Goldberg Stanley Owocki Steven Weinberg 

Leon Golub Costas Papaliolios Fred L. Whipple 

Paul Gorenstein William H. Parkinson Charles A. Whitney 

Richard E. Griffiths Joseph O. Patterson Steven Willner 

Mario Grossi Michael R. Pearlman Allan Wirth 

Edward Guinan Harrison E. Radford George L. Withbroe 

Shadia Habbal John C. Raymond John A. Wood 

F. R. Harnden, Jr. Robert Reasenberg Martin V. Zombeck 

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER 

Director William H. Klein 

Assistant Directors David L. Correll 

Walter Shropshire, Jr. 

Executive Officer Carolyn M. Walker 

Administrative Officers Joseph C. Fisher 

Donald L. Wilhelm 

Facilities Manager Robert N. Davis 

Program Assistant for Public 

Information Jamie L. Harms 

Agricultural Engineer John Sager 



Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 539 



Anthropologist Robert Stuckenrath 

Biochemist Maurice Marguhes 

Biologist Elisabeth Gantt 

Geneticist Roy W. Harding, Jr. 

Microbiologist Maria A. Faust 

Physicist Bernard Goldberg 

Plant Ecologist Dennis F. Whigham 

Plant Physiologists Charles F. Cleland 

Gerald Deitzer 

Bert G. Drake 

William O. Smith 

Terrestrial Ecologist John H. Falk 

Psychologist John D. Balling 

Zoologists Anson H. Hines 

James F. Lynch 

Affiliated Scientists 

Biochemists Jenny Clement-Metral 

Nicholas M. Shaw 

Ecologists Thomas E. Jordan 

Educational Specialists Gary Heath 

Barbara Steinberg 

Microbial Ecologist Parke Rublee 

Mycologist Elizabeth Moore-Landecker 

Plant Physiologists M. G. Holmes 

Rita Khanna 
Thomas Redlinger 
Kyotoshi Takeno-Wada 
Hugo Vogel 

Zoologists Ann Sorenson 

Paul Spitzer 
David Stevens 

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 

Director Ira Rubinoff 

Deputy Director Michael H. Robinson 

Special Assistant to Director Adela Gomez 

Deputy Special Assistant to Director . . Elena Lombardo 

Senior Scientists Martin Moynihan 

A. Stanley Rand 

Executive Officer Frank Morris 

Superintendent, Barro Colorado 

Nature Monument Gilberto Ocana 

Facilities Manager Ramon Ely 

Educational Coordinator Georgina de Alba 

Budget Assistant Carmen Sucre 

Scientific Staff 

John H. Christy Egbert G. Leigh, Jr. Alan P. Smith 

Richard G. Cooke Harilaos A. Lessios Neal G. Smith 

John Cubit Olga F. Linares Nicholas Smythe 

Robert L. Dressier G. Gene Montgomery Mary Jane West-Eberhard 

William G. Eberhard D. Ross Robertson Donald M. Windsor 

Peter W. Glynn Arcadio F. Rodaniche Hindrik Wolda 

Stephen P. Hubbell David W. Roubik S. Joseph Wright 



540 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



RESEARCH ASSOCIATES 

Annette Aiello 
Robin Andrews 
Charles Bennett, Jr. 
Nicholas Brokaw 
Gordon M. Burghardt 
Terry E. Christensen 
Mireya Correa 
Luis D'Croz 
Kerry Ann Dressier 
Robin Foster 
Nathan Gale 



Pedro Galindo 
Judy Gradwohl 
Jeffrey B. Graham 
Leslie Johnson 
James R. Karr 
Ross Kiester 
Jane Lubchenco 
Yael Lubin 
Ernst Mayr 
Bruce Menge 
Katharine Milton 



Anthony Ranere 
Tyson Roberts 
Barbara Robinson 
Gordon B. Small 
W. John Smith 
Henry Stockwell 
Alastair M. Stuart 
Katherine E. Trover 
Paulo E. Vanzolini 
Fritz Vollrath 



HISTORY AND ART 

Assistant Secretary John E. Reinhardt 

Special Assistant Dean Anderson 

Administrative Officer Patricia DuVall 

Program Management Officer Beverly Lang 

ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM 

Director John R. Kinard 

Administrative Officer Audrey M. Archer 

Historian Louise Daniel Hutchinson 

Exhibits Program Manager Victor M. Govier 

Education Specialist Zora Martin-Felton 

Supervisory Visual Information 

Specialist Sharon A. Reinckens 

Supervisory Exhibits Specialist James E. Mayo 

Photographer Christopher Capilongo 

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART 

New York (Administrative Center) 

Director Richard N. Murray (current) 

William E, Woolfenden (retired) 

Deputy Director Susan A. Hamilton 

Washington (Processing Center) 

Senior Curator Garnett McCoy 

Administrative Officer Sherrill Berger 

Curator of Manuscripts Arthur Breton 

Associate Curator of Manuscripts Judy E. Throm 

Area Collector Buck Pennington 

New York Area Center 

Area Director William McNaught 

Boston Area Center 

Area Director Robert Brown 

Detroit Area Center 

Area Director . Dennis Barrie 

San Francisco Area Center 

Area Director Paul Karlstrom 



Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 541 



COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM 

Director Lisa Taylor 

Assistant Director Harold Francis Pfister 

Administrator Linda Dunne 

Special Assistant to the Director Peter Scherer 

Business Office Manager Elizabeth McKirdie 

Curator of Drawings and Prints Elaine Evans Dee 

Curator of Decorative Arts David Revere McFadden 

Curator of Textiles Milton Sonday 

Textile Assistant Gillian Moss 

Librarian Kathy Martinez 

Conservator, Textiles Lucy Commoner 

Conservator, Paper Konstanze Bachmann 

Registrar Cordelia Rose 

Editor Nancy Akre 

Exhibition Coordinator Dorothy Globus 

Exhibition Designer Robin Parkinson 

Exhibition Researcher Lucy Fellowes 

Public Information Manager Isabelle Silverman 

Development Manager Eileen White 

Special Events Coordinator Chauncie McKeever 

Program Coordinators Jennifer Parkinson 

Susan Yelavich 

Education Specialist Andrew Svedlow 

Chief of Security Luis Palau 

Building Manager Jim Ledford 

Building Foreman Benard Feudi 



FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Director Thomas Lawton 

Assistant Director for Administration . . Richard Louie 

Administrative Officer Sarah Newmeyer-Hill 

Curator, Chinese Art Shen C. Y. Fu 

Curator, Japanese Art Yoshiaki Shimizu 

Assistant Curator, American Art David Park Curry 

Assistant Curator, Japanese Art Ann Yonemura 

Museum Specialist, Japanese Ceramics . Louise A. Cort 

Museum Specialist, Chinese Art Julia K. Murray 

Head Conservator, Technical Laboratory W. Thomas Chase III 

Conservator John Winter 

Conservator Paul Jett 

Coordinator of Special Programs, 

Center for Asian Art Esin Atil 

Research Assistant Josephine) |H- Knapp 

Librarian Ellen A. Nollman 

Assistant Librarian Lydia Hsieh 

Registrar Eleanor Radcliffe 

Registrarial Specialist Harriet McWilliams 

Docent Coordinator Gayle Southworth 

Building Manager Robert W. Evans 

Honorary Associates Richard Edwards 

Calvin French 



542 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 

Director Abram Lemer 

Deputy Director Stephen E. Weil 

Executive Officer Nancy F. Kirkpatrick 

Chief Curator Charles W. Millard 

Curator of Exhibitions Cynthia J. McCabe 

Associate Curators Howard N. Fox 

Frank B. Gettings 
Phyllis Rosenzweig 
Judith Zilczer 

Assistant Curators Valerie Fletcher 

Miranda McClintic 

Librarian Anna Brooke 

Chief Conservator Felrath Mines 

Conservators Leland Aks 

Clarke Bedford 
Susan Lake 
Antoinette Owen 

Registrar Douglas Robinson 

Chief, Education Edward Lawson 

Chief, Exhibits and Design Joseph Shannon 

Public Information Specialist Sidney Lawrence 

Photographer Lee Stalsworth 

Building Services Coordinator Frank Underwood 

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS 

Editor Nathan Reingold 

Associate Editor Marc Rothenberg 

Assistant Editors Kathleen W. Dorman 

Paul Theerman 
Administrative Officer Beverly Jo Lepley 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART 

Director Sylvia H. Williams 

Associate Director for 

Collections and Research Roy Sieber 

Assistant Director Jean Salan 

Founding Director Emeritus Warren Robbins 

Curator Lydia Puccinelli 

Curator Roslyn Walker 

Public Information Officer Amina Dickerson 

Curator of Education Edward Lifschitz 

Operations Manager Basil Arendse 

Registrar Lee Williams 

Conservator Renee Welfeld 

Archives Assistant Bryna Freyer 

Docent/Intern Coordinator Gretchen Jennings 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART 

Director Charles C. Eldredge 

Deputy Director Harry Lowe 

Assistant Director, Programs Barbara Nosanow 



Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 543 



Assistant Director, Resources Charles J. Robertson 

Administrator Sherwood A. Dowling 

Assistant to the Director Birute Anne Vileisis 

Senior Curatorial Advisor Adelyn Breeskin 

Curator, 20th Century Painting and 

Sculpture Harry Rand 

Associate Curator, 20th Century 

Painting and Sculpture Virginia Mecklenburg 

Assistant Curator, 20th Century 

Painting and Sculpture Merry Foresta 

Assistant Curator, Joseph Cornell 

Study Center Lynda Hartigan 

Curator, 18th and 19th Century 

Painting and Sculpture William H. Truettner 

Associate Curator, 18th and 19th 

Century Painting and Sculpture Robin Bolton-Smith 

Curator, Graphic Arts Janet Flint 

Associate Curator, Graphic Arts Martina Norelli 

Chief, Office of Public Programs Margaret P. Cogswell 

Producer, Art Documentaries, 

Office of Public Museum Programs . . Alison Abelson 
Head of Docents and Volunteer 

Services Nora Panzer 

Director, Renwick Gallery Lloyd E. Herman 

Curator, Renwick Gallery Michael Monroe 

Associate Curator, Renwick Gallery . . . Ellen Myette 

Curator, Barney Studio House Jean Lewton 

Curator of Research Lois M. Fink 

Chief, Office of Intern Programs Patricia H. Chieffo 

Chief, Office of Design and Production David Keeler 
Chief, Design Unit, Office of 

Design and Production Val Lewton 

Senior Conservator Stefano Scafetta 

Editor, Office of Publications Carroll S. Clark 

Registrar W. Robert Johnston 

Assistant Registrar, Permanent 

Collection Thomas W. Bower 

Assistant Registrar, Loans Melissa L. Kroning 

Assistant Registrar, Packing 

and Shipping Michael Smallwood 

Chief, Office of Public Affairs Margery Byers 

Chief, Office of Research Support Eleanor Fink 

Assistant Chief, Office of 

Research Support Rachel Allen 

Chief Photographer Michael Fischer 

Coordinator, Inventory of 

American Paintings Martha Andrews 

Librarian nmaa/npg Cecilia Chin 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY 

Director Roger G. Kennedy 

Deputy Director Douglas E. Evelyn 

Assistant Director for Administration . . Ronald E. Becker 

Special Assistants Lawrence A. Bush 

Eleanor Trowbridge 



544 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Museum Program Coordinator Susan B. Beaudette 

Public Information Officer Mary W. Dyer 

Assistant Administrator Richard Nicastro 

National Philatelic Collections 

Executive Director Herbert R. Collins 

Associate Curator Reidar Norby 

National Numismatics Collections 

Historians Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli 

(Deceased 10/19/82) 
Elvira Clain-Stefanelli 

Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research 

Historians Forrest C. Pogue 

James Hutchins 

Office of Building Management 
Building Manager William Sanford 

Division of Conservation 
Head Conservator ]. Scott Odell 

Department of Exhibits 

Assistant Director for Exhibitions 

and Public Spaces J. Michael Carrigan 

Chief, Exhibits Design Nadya Makovenyi 

Chief, Exhibits Production, Exhibits 

Maintenance Walter N. Lewis 

Office of Public and Academic Programs 

Director Josiah Hatch 

Director, Program in Black 

American Culture Bernice Johnson Reagon 

Director, Performances James Weaver 

Office of the Registrar 

Registrar Virginia Beets 

Assistant Registrar Martha Morris 

Department of Social and Cultural History 

Chairman Gary B. Kulik 

Historian, Life in America Project Path D. Ruffins 

CERAMICS AND GLASS 

Assistant Curator Susan Myers 

Curators Emeriti Paul V. Gardner 

J. Jefferson Miller II 
C. Malcolm Watkins 

Collaborators Joan P. Watkins 

Ivor Noel Hume 

COMMUNITY LIFE 

Curators Richard E. Ahlborn 

Carl H. Scheele 



Appendix 7 . Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 545 



COSTUME 

Curator Claudia B. Kidwell 

Curator Emeritus Anne W. Murray 

DOMESTIC LIFE 

Curators Anne C. Golovin 

Rodris C. Roth 
Associate Curator Barbara Clark Smith 

GRAPHIC ARTS 

Curator Elizabeth M. Harris 

Assistant Curator Helena C. Wright 

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS 

Curators John T. Fesperman 

Cynthia A. Hoover 
Research Associate Sheridan Germann 

PHOTOGRAPHIC HISTORY 

Curator Eugene Ostroff 

POLITICAL HISTORY 

Curators Michael R. Beschloss 

Margaret B. Klapthor 
Keith E. Melder 

Associate Curator Edith P. Mayo 

TEXTILES 

Curator Rita J. Adrosko 

Department of the History of Science and Technology 

Chairman Arthur P. Molella 

Administrator William L. Withuhn 

Research Associates Derek J. De Solla Price 

Bern Dibner 
Rayna Green 

ELECTRICITY AND MODERN PHYSICS 

Curators Bernard Finn 

Paul Forman 

EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES 

Curators Pete Daniel 

John T. Schlebecker 

Associate Curator George T. Sharrer 

Research Associate Philip W. Bishop 

MATHEMATICS 

Curator Uta C. Merzbach 

Research Associates Judy Green 

Jeanne LaDuke 

MECHANISMS 

Curators Otto Mayr 

David F. Noble 
Research Associate Stuart Bennett 



546 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



MEDICAL SCIENCES 

Curators Audrey B. Davis 

Ramunas A. Kondratas 
Curator Emeritus Sami K. Hamameh 

MECHANICAL AND CIVIL ENGINEERING 

Curator Robert M. Vogel 

Research Associates Charles T. G. Looney 

Dian O. Belanger 

MILITARY HISTORY 

Curator Edward C. Ezell 

Associate Curator Donald E. Kloster 

Curator Emeritus Craddock R. Coins, Jr. 

Research Associate Mrs. John Nicholas Brown 

NAVAL HISTORY 

Curators Philip K. Lundeberg 

Harold D. Langley 
Research Associate Lee Houchins 

PHYSICAL SCIENCES 

Curators Deborah J. Warner 

Jon B. Eklund 
Research Associate Arthur Frazier 

TRANSPORTATION 

Curators John H. White 

William L. Withuhn 

Research Associates Peter B. Bell 

Arthur D. Dubin 
George Hilton 
Melvin H. Jackson 
Senior Historian's Office 

Senior Historian Brooke Hindle 

Senior Scientific Scholar Robert P. Multhauf 

Archives Center 

Archivist John Fleckner 

Historian Spencer Crew 

Technology & Culture 
Editor Robert C. Post 

Afro-American Communities Project 
Director James Horton 

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 

Director Alan Fern 

Assistant Director for History and 

Public Programs Marc Pachter 

(Appointed 2/6/83) 
Executive Officer Barbara A. Hart 

(Appointed 3/6/83) 



Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 547 



Curator of Painting and Sculpture .... Robert G. Stewart 

Curator of Exhibitions Beverly J. Cox 

Associate Curators of Painting and 

Sculpture Monroe Fabian 

Ellen Miles 

Curator of Prints Wendy Wick Reaves 

Curator of Photographs William F. Stapp 

Curator of Education Kenneth Yellis 

Editor of Publications Frances S. Wein 

Chief, Design and Production Nello Marconi 

Keeper, Catalog of American Portraits Mona Dearborn 
National Survey Coordinator, Catalog of 

American Portraits Richard K. Doud 

Editor of the Charles Willson Peale 

Papers and Historian of American 

Culture Lillian B. Miller 

Librarian Cecilia Chin 

Senior Conservator Rosamond Westmoreland 

Senior Photographer Eugene Mantie 

Registrar Suzanne Jenkins 

Public Affairs Officer Sandra Westin 



OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES 
Director Wilcomb E. Washburn 



MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

Assistant Secretary Paul N. Perrot 

Executive Assistant William N. Richards 

Special Assistant W. Donald Duckworth 

Program Analyst Thomas J. Peyton 



CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY 

Acting Director Alan W. Postlethwaite 

Administrative Officer Vernetta M. Williams 

Information Specialist Marjorie Cleveland 

CONSERVATION TREATMENT 

Supervisor Eleanor McMillan 

Furniture Conservator Walter Angst 

Objects Conservator Mary L. Garbin 

Paintings Conservator Roland Cunningham 

Paper Conservator Timothy Vitale 

Conservation Technician Thomas Raysor 

CONSERVATION SCIENCE 

Supervisor Timothy Padfield 

Metallurgy and Microscopy Martha Goodway 

Infra-Red Spectrophotometry, etc Walter Hopwood 

Ultraviolet Spectrography Harold Westley 



548 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



X-Ray Diffraction and X-Radiography . . Joan Mishara 

Organic Chemists David Erhardt 

David Von Endt 

ARCHAEOMETRY 

Administrator Jacqueline S. Olin 

Neutron Activation Analysis M. James Blackman 

Neutron Induced Autoradiography .... Yu-tarng Cheng 

Fellows in Material Science Albert Jornet 

Emlen Myers 
Rita Wright 

Librarian (5IL) Karen Preslock 

NATIONAL MUSEUM ACT PROGRAMS 

Coordinator Barbara K. Schneider 

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS CENTRAL 

Chief, OEC 

Director of Design James A. Mahoney, Jr. 

Assistant Chief 

Chief of Production John Widener 

Assistant to the Chief 

Chief, Editor's Office Karen Hummer Fort 

Administrative Officer William M. Clark, Jr. 

Assistant Chief of Production 

Supervisor, Graphic Production James A. Speight, Jr. 

Supervisor, Fabrication Kenneth R. Clevinger 

Supervisor, Models Shop Walter G. Sorrell 

OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE 

Director James R. Buckler 

Assistant Director John W. Monday 

Chief of Education Division Lauranne C. Nash 

Foreman, Grounds Management Division Kenneth Hawkins 

Foreman, Greenhouse-Nursery Division August A. Dietz IV 

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES 

Director Kennedy B. Schmertz 

Deputy Director Richard T. Conroy 

International Liaison Specialist Saundra Tilghman-Thomas 

Coordinator Brian J. LeMay 

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS 

Program Manager Jane R. Glaser 

Assistant Program Manager and Native 

American Museums Program 

Coordinator Nancy J. Fuller 

Kellogg Project Coordinator Philip Speiss II 

Museum Evaluator Dr. Robert L. Wolf 

Training Program Coordinator Mary Lynn Perry 

Intern and Visiting Professionals 

Program Raymond Branham 



Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 549 



Program Assistant Pamela Leupen 

Conservation Information Program 

Coordinator Elena Borowski 

A.V. Production Specialist Rodger Wedgeworth 

Distribution Coordinator Bettie J. Lee 

Administrative Clerk Mary J. Paden 

Museum Reference Center Librarian . . Catherine Scott 

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR 
Registrar Philip Leslie 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES 

Acting Archivist William A. Deiss 

Associate Archivists Alan L. Bain 

Richard V. Szary 

Assistant Archivists William E. Cox 

Susan Westgate Glenn 
William R. Massa, Jr. 
James A. Steed 

Historian Pamela M. Henson 

Supervisory Archives Technician Norwood N. Biggs 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 

Director Robert Maloy 

Special Assistant Silvio Bedini 

Asst. for Resource Development Mary A. Rosenfeld 

Manager, Systems, Planning and 

Administration Stephen Toney 

Administrative Officer Jean Middleton 

Associate Director and Manager 

Bibliographic Systems Division Vija L. Karklins 

Chief, Acquisition Services Mildred D. Raitt 

Supervisor, Monographs Purchasing 

and Gifts/Exchanges William B. Neff 

Supervisor, Serials Purchasing Lucien R. Rossignol 

Supervisor, Binding Purchasing James E. Lawson 

Chief, Automated Bibliographic Control Victoria Avera 

Acting Chief, Catalogue Records Brooke Henley 

Chief, Original Indexing Services Mary Jane H. Linn 

Cataloguers Margaret A. Sealor 

Helen Nordberg 

Trade Literature Indexer Mildred Scharf 

Assistant Director and Manager, 

Research Services Division Margaret Child 

Chief Librarian, Central Reference and 

Loan Services Mary C. Gray 

Reference Librarians Gloria Atkinson 

Bertha S. Sohn 
Susan VanHaften-Mackler 
Barbara Veloz 
Library of Congress Liaison 

Librarian Janette K. Saquet 



550 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Chief Librarian, Museum Reference 

Center Catherine D. Scott 

Chief Librarian, Special Collections . . . Ellen B. Wells 

Branch Research Libraries 

Chief, SIL Branch, SERC Angel Haggins 

Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, C-HM Katharine Martinez 

Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NASM .... Frank Pietropaoli 

Reference Librarians Philip Edwards 

Amy Levin 

Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NMAf A . . Janet L. Stanley 
Chief Librarian, Museum Support 

Center Karen Preslock 

Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NMAH Rhoda Ratner 

Reference Librarian Charles Berger 

Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NMNH . . . Sylvia J. Churgin 

Assistant Librarians Ruth Schallert 

Angeline Smith 

Senior Science Reference Librarian . . Jack Marquardt 

Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NZP Kay Kenyon 

Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, STRI Carol Jopling 

Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, SAO Joyce M. Rey 

Assistant Director and Manager 

Collection Management Division .... Jack S. Goodwin 
Book Conservation Laboratory 

Chief Conservator Johannes H. Hyltoft 

Conservator Maria Nugent 

Research Associate Jean C. Smith 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE 

Director Peggy A. Loar 

Public Affairs Officer Eileen Harakal 

Assistant Director for Administration 

and Program Analysis Antonio Diez 

Publications Officer Andrea Stevens 

Head Registrar Mary Jane Clark 

Registrar for Shipping Mary Sheridan 

(Resigned 9/19/83) 

Registrar for Scheduling Vera Hyatt 

Assistant Director for International 

Programs Eileen Rose 

Exhibitions Coordinator Donald McClelland 

Project Director, "The Precious Legacy" Anna R. Cohn 

(Under contract) 
Assistant Director for Program 

Administration Deborah Dawson 

Exhibition Coordinators Martha Cappelletti 

Judith Cox 
Elizabeth Driscoll 
Susan Schreiber 
Betty Teller 

Educational Specialist Marjorie Share 

Education Coordinators Deborah Lerme Goodman 

Julia Shepherd 
Assistant Director for Exhibition 

Development Anne R. Gossett 



Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 551 



PUBLIC SERVICE 

Assistant Secretary Peter Seitel 

Administrative Officer Andrew W. McCoy 

OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION 

Education Program Coordinator Ann Bay 

Museum Education Specialist Alan Cartenhaus 

Thomas Lowderbaugh 
Special Education Coordinator Janice Majewski 

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS 

Director Peter Seitel 

Senior Ethnomusicologist Thomas Vennum 

Administrative Officer Betty Beuck 

Senior Folklife Program Officer Jeffrey LaRiche 

Associate Festival Director Diana Parker 

Folklorists Marjorie Hunt 

Jack Santino 

Ethnomusicologist Kazadi wa Mukuna 

Designer Daphne Shuttleworth 

Technical Specialist Richard Derbyshire 

Archive Assistant Cal Southworth 

Assistant Film Editor Steve Secor 

Administrative Assistant Sarah Lewis 

Fiscal Technician Barbara Strickland 

Staff Assistant Arlene Liebenau 

Festival Services Manager Jackie Dulaney 

Renwick "Celebration" Exhibition 

Project Manager Kristie Miller 

Program Specialist Beth Hantzes 

Production Assistant Magdalena Gilinsky 

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS 

Director Wilton S. Dillon 

Associate Directors Dorothy Richardson 

Carla M. Borden 

OFFICE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

Director Nazaret Cherkezian 

Assistant Director Paul B. Johnson 

Director of Special Projects Karen Loveland 

Telecommunications Specialists Ann M. Carroll 

Jean B. Quinnette 

Production Coordinator Lawrence E. Kline 

TV Production Specialist Peter R. C. Erikson 

Motion Picture Production Specialist . . . John W. Hiller 
Radio Production Specialists Jesse E. Boggs 

John P. Meehan 
Radio Production/Marketing Specialist . Denise E. Freeland 
Administrative Officer Kate M. Hartley 



552 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 

Director Felix C. Lowe 

Deputy Director Glen B. Ruh 

Financial Manager John R. Ouellette 

Marketing Consultant William Kelty 

Administrative Officer Georgiana Hahn 

University Press Division 

Assistant Director and Managing Editor Maureen R. Jacoby 

Senior Science Editor Edward F. Rivinus 

Editor, Special Projects Martin Williams 

Production Manager Lawrence J. Long 

Series Publications Supervisor Barbara J. Spann 

Distribution Section Supervisor Rosa E. Maness 

Senior Designer Stephen J. Kraft 

Direct Mail Book Division 

Director Glen B. Ruh 

Senior Editor Alexis Doster III 

Recordings Division 

Director Felix C. Lowe 

Executive Producer Vacant 

Associate Producer James R. Taylor 

SMITHSONIAN MAGAZINE 

Editor Don Moser 

Publisher Joseph J. Bonsignore 

Executive Editor Ralph Backlund 

Members, Board of Editors: 

Caroline Despard Nancy Seaman 

Jim Doherty Paul Trachtman 

Timothy Foote John P. Wiley, Jr. 
Bennett Schiff 

Associate Publisher, Advertising Thomas H. Black 

Associate Publisher, Circulation Anne Keating 

General Manager Carey O. Randall 

Production Manager Ruth Ravenel 

Printing and Distribution E. Cherry Doyle 

Consultant to the Secretary Edward K. Thompson 

VISITOR INFORMATION AND ASSOCIATES' 
RECEPTION CENTER 

Director Mary Grace Potter 

Deputy Director Carolyn Clampitt 

Program Editor Maria Heasly 

Manager, Staff/Volunteer Service Unit . Sally Covel 

Manager, Public Inquiry Mail Unit .... Vacant 
Manager, Telephone Information 

Program Katherine Neill 

Coordinator, Group Information Services Julia Daniel 
Coordinator, Information Ontreach 

Program Molly Sawyer 

Office Manager Bee Gee Livsey 



Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 553 



ADMINISTRATION 

Assistant Secretary John F. Jameson 

Planning Officer Robert L. Farrell 

Contracting Officer, Contracts Office . . . Elbridge O. Hurlbut 

Director, Management Analysis Office . John G. Motheral 

Director, Office of Equal Opportunity . . Will Douglas, Jr. 

Director, Office of Facilities Services . . . Tom L. Peyton, Jr. 

Director, Office of Design and 

Construction Phillip K. Reiss 

Director, Office of Plant Services .... Kenneth E. Shaw 

Director, Office of Protection Services Robert B. Burke, Jr. 
Director, Office of Information Resource 

Management Richard H. Lytle 

Director, Office of Personnel 

Administration Howard Toy 

Director, Office of Printing and 

Photographic Services James H. Wallace, Jr. 

Director, Office of Programming and 

Budget Jon E. Yellin 

Acting Director, Office of Programming 

and Budget John R. Clarke 

Director, Office of Supply Services . . . Robert P. Perkins 

Director, Travel Services Office Ann H. Krafthofer 

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES 

Treasurer Christian C. Hohenlohe 

Assistant to the Treasurer John R. Clarke 

Financial Analyst Frances C. Rooney 

Assistant Treasurer, Office of 

Accounting and Financial Services . . . Allen S. Goff 
Assistant Director, Office of Accounting 

and Financial Services Shireen L. Dodson 

Chief Systems Accountant John P. Howser 

Cash and Investment Analyst Adele R. Bock 

Chief, Procedures and Review Edward J. Ballotta 

Director, Office of Grants and Risk 

Management Phillip H. Babcock 

Assistant Director, Grants Management Rick R. Johnson 

Assistant Director, Risk Management . . Judith A. Ferraiolo 

Director, Business Management Office . James J. Chmelik 
Product Licensing Specialist, Business 

Management Office Ann I. McClellan 

Director, Smithsonian Museum Shops . . Samuel J. Greenberg 

Director, Mail Order Division Donald E. Press 

Director (Acting), Department of 

Food Services Ohlen J. Boyd 

Manager, Parking Office Charles K. Ruffin 

Director, Belmont Conference Center . . Mary B. Force 
(Center sold 9/9/83) 

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL 

General Counsel Peter G, Powers 

Associate General Counsel Alan D. Ullberg 



554 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Assistant General Counsels: 

Robert A. Dierker George S. Robinson Sharon A. White 

Marie C. Malaro Marsha S. Shaines Janies I. Wilson 

Suzanne Dupre Murphy 



MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT 

Director James McK. Symington 

OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT 

Deputy Director E. Jeffrey Stann 

Associate Development Officers Arthur W. Gardner 

Salvatore G. Cilella, Jr. 
Research Coordinator Susan J. Kalcik 

NATIONAL ASSOCIATE PROGRAM 

Director Jacqueline Austin 

Program Analyst Abby Whitenack 

Program Coordinator for 

the Women's Committee Marta Doggett 

Regional Events 

Program Manager Charlene James-Duguid 

Program Assistants Amy Kotkin and MaryBeth Mullen 

Contributing Membership 

Program Manager Janet Fesler 

Program Assistant Robert Smulian 

Selected Studies 

Program Manager Nancy Starr 

Program Assistant Nancy Mitchell 

Associates Travel 

Program Manager, Domestic 

Study Tours Prudence Clendenning 

Program Manager, Foreign 

Study Tours Barbara Tuceling 

RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM 

Director Janet W. Solinger 

Associate Director Michael C. Alin 

Associate Director Eugene S. Szopa 

Program Coordinators Roslyn Beitler 

Paul J. Edelson 
Moya B. King 
Carol L. Malmi 
Marcus L. Overton 

Associate Program Coordinators Karen M. Gray 

Elizabeth H. McClung 
Marsha Semmel 
Alice Dana Spencer 
Susan Swarthout Taub 



Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 555 



Art Director Margaret V. Lee 

Public Information Specialist Joanne Dann 

Associate Editor Bruce E. Tapper 

Publicist Catherine J. Cole 

Membership Coordinator Jeanne B. George 

Assistant Membership Coordinator .... Claudette E. Moore 

Registration Manager Marjorie Lee Walker 

Assistant Registration Manager Xenia Sorokin Arnelle 

Volunteer Coordinator Elinor K. Emlet 



OFFICE OF COORDINATOR OF PUBLIC INFORMATION 

Coordinator Lawrence Taylor 

Executive Officer Eileen Hall 

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS 

Director Alvin Rosenfeld 

Assistant Director Madeleine Jacobs 

Public Affairs Specialists: 

Susan Bliss Kathryn Lineman Linda St. Thomas 

Mary Combs David Maxfield William C. Schuiz 

Johnnie Douthis Ingrid Mendelsohn Lilas Wiltshire 

Richard Friedman 

OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL LIAISON 

Special Assistant to the Secretary Margaret Hird 

Congressional Liaison Assistant Carey Wilkins 

OFFICE OF SPECIAL EVENTS 

Director Barbara Spraggins 

Assistant Director Anne Blattberg 



READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC. 

Chairman of the Board Mrs. Elliot Richardson 

President Ruth Graves 

Executive Assistant Nancy Lewis 

Director of Development Wade St. Clair 

Director of Supplier and 

Organizational Relations Barbara Atkinson 

Director of Financial Operations 

and Special Projects Christina D. Mead 

Director of Publications and 

Research Kristine Wilcox 

Program Services Officer Jessie L. Lacy 

Regional Program Coordinator Mary Chor 

Subcontract and Data Retrieval Officer . Don Perron 

Resource Coordination Specialist Deborah K. Stoeckle 

Finance Manager Donna M. Wagley 

Materials/Supplies Manager Calvin L. McFadden 

Writer/Editor/Researcher Gail Oerke 

Manager, Parent Services James Wendorf 



556 I Smithsonian Year 1983 



WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER 
FOR SCHOLARS 

Director James H. Billington 

Deputy Director Prosser Gifford 

Editor Peter Braestrup 

Librarian Zdenek V. David 

Publications Program Manager Elizabeth Dixon 

Assistant Director for Administration . . William M. Dunn 

Secretary, Kennan Institute Herbert J. Ellison 

Secretary, American Society and Politics 

Program Michael J. Lacey 

Secretary, Latin American Program .... Abraham F. Lowenthal 

Secretary, East Asia Program Ronald A. Morse 

Assistant Director for Development .... George Liston Seay 
Assistant Director for Fellowships and 

Coordinator of History, Culture, and 

Society Ann Sheffield 

Executive Assistant to the Director .... Mernie Wright Weathers 
Secretary, International Security Studies 

Program Samuel F. Wells, Jr. 



JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 

Artistic Director Marta Istomin 

Director of Operations Thomas R. Kendrick 

Deputy Director of Operations Geraldine M. Otremba 

General Manager of Theaters Judith O'Dea Morr 

Associate Manager of Theaters Richard H. Owens 

Controller Clifton B. Jeter 

Director of Development Jillian H. Poole 

Director of Building Services Edward G. Schessler 

Budget Officer Verda V. Welch 

Administrative Assistant for 

Programming Wayne Richardson 

Director of Education Jack W. Kukuk 

Marketing Manager John H. McAuliffe 

Director of Communications Laura Longley 

Manager of Sales Carl A. Matte 

Television Consultant Chloe Aaron 

Theater Productions Consultant Ralph G. Allen 

Multi-Cultural Affairs Adviser Archie L. Buffkins 



NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

President John R. Stevenson 

Vice-President Carlisle H. Humelsine 

Director J. Carter Brown 

Deputy Director John H. Wilmerding 

Dean, Center for Advanced Study in 

the Visual Arts Henry A. Millon 

Treasurer Robert C. Goetz 

Administrator Joseph G. English 



Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries I 357 



Secretary-General Counsel Carroll J. Cavanagh 

Chief Curator Sydney J. Freedberg 

Construction Manager Hurley F. Offenbacher 

Assistant to the Director, Music Richard Bales 

Assistant to the Director, Public 

Information Katherine Warwick 

Assistant to the Director, Special Events Cenevra Higginson 

Planning Consultant David W. Scott 

Chief Librarian J. M. Edelstein 

Chief, Education Department Margaret I. Bouton 

Head, Extension Program Department . Ruth R. Perlin 

Head, Art Information Service Elise V. H. Ferber 

Editor Frances Smyth 

Chief, Photographic Laboratory William J. Sumits 

Curator of Photographic Archives Ruth Rowe Philbrick 

Head, Photographic Services Ira A. Bartfield 

Chief of Conservation Ross M. Merrill 

Chief of Exhibitions Program D. Dodge Thompson 

Head, Department of Design and 

Installation Gaillard F. Ravenel 

Registrar Peter Davidock, Jr. 

Curator of Graphic Arts Andrew C. Robison, Jr. 

Curator of Early Italian and Tuscan 

Painting David A. Brown 

Curator of Northern and Later Italian 

Painting Sheldon Grossman 

Acting Curator of American Art Linda Ayres 

Curator of Italian Drawings Diane DeGrazia 

Curator of French Prints H. Diane Russell 

Curator of Sculpture Douglas Lewis, Jr. 

Curator of Twentieth-Century Art E. A. Carmean, Jr. 

Curator of Northern European Painting John O. Hand 

Curator of Dutch Painting Arthur K. Wheelock 

Curator, Department of Graphic Arts . . Ruth Fine 
Assistant Dean, Center for Advanced 

Study in the Visual Arts Schreve Simpson 

Assistant Administrator George W. Riggs 

Associate Secretary-General Counsel . . Elizabeth A. Croog 

Assistant Secretary Kathryn K. Bartfield 

Personnel Officer Michael B. Bloom 



558 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



APPENDIX 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in 
Fiscal Year 1983 



The Board of Regents and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution join 
with the entire staff in thanking all of the Institution's friends for their gen- 
erous financial support and for their gifts to the collections. If perchance the 
name of any donor has been omitted from the following list, it is an inad- 
vertence and in no way diminishes the Institution's gratitude. Many gifts were 
received from donors who prefer to remain anonymous; the Smithsonian 
wishes to thank them for their generosity. 

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY 

SPECIAL PROJECTS 

Donors to the Furnishings Collection 

Peter Mack Brown: 1 circular parlor table. 

Daniel M. Child: 6 caned side chairs. 

James M. Goode: 1 Chinese folding screen. 

Kier Helberg: 1 Empire sofa, 1 Gothic Revival canterbury. 

Dr. and Mrs. Walter Hepner: 2 Renaissance Revival print cabinets, set of 6 

Renaissance Revival chairs, set of 1 arm chair, 2 side chairs, and 1 sofa, 

all Renaissance Revival. 
Ray Herbert: 2 panorama photographs of the Mall and U.S. Capitol. 
Jeffrey La Riche: 1 antelope skin. 

Miss Christine Mattier: 1 Rocco Revival six-light chandelier. 
Mrs. M. M. Patrick: 1 Renaissance Revival side chair. 
Ralph Rinzler: 1 Eastlake four-light chandelier. 
Mrs. Milton Turner: 17 etchings of Washington, D.C., by Gustav Trois. 

SCIENCE 

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM 
Donors of Financial Support 

Air Line Pilots Association, General Electric 

International Grumman Corporation 

Ms. Helen Rogers Binney Itek Optical Systems 

Ms. Florence M. Boring Jay M. Jaffe 

British Aerospace Incorporated Japan Aeronautical Engineers' 
Delta Vee, Inc. Association 

Mr. Clyde B. Finley Mr. Archie J. Lenzi 

Friends and Co-Workers of Lockheed Missiles and Space 
Westinghouse Electric Company Company, Inc. 

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 559 



Mr. William T. McCormick Mr. Blair D. Shwedo 

Mrs. Helen J. McCray Mr. Donald R. Speck 

National Space Club Mr. D. S. Stephanadis 

The Perkins-Elmer Corporation Time-Life Books, Inc. 

Mr. H. R. Perot TRW, Defense and Systems Group 

Prime Computer, Inc. TRW, Space and Technology Group 

Rockwell International, Space U.S. Air 

Operations United Technologies 

Donors to the Collections 

Mr. John W. Abiuso: 2 parachutes. 

Mrs. Alfred Africano: 2 films, 2 records, and 1 cassette describing American 
Rocket Society rocket tests. 

Alaska State Chamber of Commerce: model of RCA SATCOM (ALASCOM) 
communications satellite. 

Mr. John C. Andrews: U.S. Army Air Forces World War II enlisted man's 
flight jacket. 

Amateur Radio Club, Maryland Chapter: U.S. Army Signal Corps airplane 
radio receiving set. 

Amelia Earhart American Legion Auxiliary, Post #678 (through Mrs. Estelle 
Manbeck) : scissors. 

Contessa Maria Fede Caproni Armani: model of Savoia-Marchetti S55X sea- 
plane. 

Mr. Norbert Aubuchon: flying goggles. 

Mr. John Baker: Weedhopper ultralight aircraft. 

Butler Aviation International: collection of 36 photographs by Mr. Budd 
Davisson. 

Mrs. Louise Swift Chambers: painting, SST Two, by Lorraine Chambers 
McCarty. 

Mr. John Charlton: collection of World War I Royal Flying Corps uniforms 
and memorabilia, 29 objects. 

Mr. Mance Clayton: collection of 33 space flight mission patches. 

Cleveland Pneumatic Co.: Louis W. Greve trophy. 

Commercial Plastic and Supply Corp.: 2 B-25 turret enclosures. 

Cornell University, Center for Radio Physics and Space Research: infrared 
rocket payload. 

Mr. Emre E. Dluhos: bombsight, aircraft, type Mark lA, U.S. Army Air 
Service. 

Mr. Alan D. Dunphy: J. W. Hadfield skyrocket, patent model, ca. 1865, 
2 J. W. Hadfield skyrockets, patent model, ca. 1867, and a P. Licht sky- 
rocket, patent model, ca. 1872. 

Mr. Paul Edward Garber: Korean kite reel and Chinese kite reel. 

General Dynamics, Convair Division: model of Atlas Centaur. 

Mr. E. J. Gothard: Antonov AN-2 Colt aircraft. 

Mr. William F. Goza: model of Fokker D VII, World War I. 

Mr. Stephen W. Henninger: model of USS Enterprise aircraft carrier. 

High Altitude Observatory, Boulder, Colo, and National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration: coronagraph for Apollo telescope mount. 

Mr. Kenneth W. Hyde: Farman Sport aircraft. 

Individual Protection Laboratory, U.S. Army Natick Research and Develop- 
ment Laboratories: flying helmet, and armor flyer's vest. 

Mr. Paul Jokelson: Montgolfier paperweight. 

Mr. Johan Kala: Mooney M-18 Mite aircraft. 

Mrs. Benjamin S. Kelsey: flying helmet, type T-30-H microphone, souvenir 
propeller, and U.S. Navy parachute. 



560 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Mr. Robert Koch : model of Lockheed D-21 drone. 

Mr. Richard Kolter: U.S. Army Air Forces World War II flight jacket, flight 
helmet, cap, trousers, anti-G garment, radio headset, throat microphone, 
and Royal Air Force flying helmet. 

Mr. Robert Chad Le Beau: 2 U.S. Army Air Corps oxygen masks. 

Lewis University (through Brother David Delahanty, FSC) : Frankfort TG-lA 
sailplane aircraft. 

Mr. Henry A. Liese: two-blade wood propeller. 

Lockheed Missiles and Space Co.: space telescope (support systems module). 

Martin Marietta Aerospace, Denver Division: model of space shuttle astro- 
naut with manned maneuvering unit. 

Capt. Russell Maugans: pilot's directional indicator from Martin B-26 
Marauder. 

Mr. Russell J. Morrison: Sperry A-1 turret. 

Col. William B. Mozey, Jr.: U.S. Army Signal Corps guidon, airline mega- 
phone, shaving kit, and venturi tube. 

National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Goddard Space Flight Cen- 
ter, Laboratory for Astronomy and Physics: OSO-V X-ray Spectrometer. 

National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Headquarters, Washington, 
D.C.: Viking Lander biology instrument. 

National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Jet Propulsion Laboratory: 
deep space network antenna model. 

National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Johnson Space Center: Gemi- 
ni spacesuit, U.S. flag and STS-1 patch mounted on a certificate, Apollo 
spacesuit with helmet, ALSEP charged particle lunar environment experi- 
ment, and laser ranging reflector. 

National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Marshall Space Flight Cen- 
ter: Apollo telescope mount. 

National Aeronautics and Space Administration and Dr. Sally Ride: STS-7 
flight suit. 

Mr. Eric Nyman: 9 radio transmitters, radio modular unit, radio switch unit, 
microphone, altitude transmitter, 2 fuel quantity instruments, artificial hori- 
zon, 2 gyroscopes, and an oxygen cylinder. 

Mrs. Jan Palmer-Humphrey: German Air Force World War II officer's service 
cap, dress belt, and aiguillette. 

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson: flying goggles. 

Perkin-Elmer Corporation: space telescope (optical telescope assembly). 

Mr. Russell Pierce: World War II German artificial horizon. 

Mr. Karl Schneide: U.S. Army Air Corps officer's breeches. 

Science Digest: 3 paintings Binary Sunset, Earth's Crust Forming, and New 
Moon Risiiig by April Lawton. 

Sig Manufacturing Co.: model of North American P-51D aircraft. 

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Center on Astrophysics: gamma ray 
experiment from OSO-1. 

Mrs. Mildred Stambach: smoke balloon with accessories, and 2 parachutes. 

Mr. Stan Stokes: painting, P-40 B, by Stan Stokes. 

U.S. Air Force, Headquarters, Pentagon: Lockheed U-2C aircraft, and a Pratt 
& Whitney turbojet engine. 

U.S. Air Force, Sheppard Air Force Base: Cessna 0-2A Skymaster aircraft. 

U.S. Navy (through Honorable John F. Lehman, Secretary of the Navy) : 
Kawanishi N1K2-J George aircraft. 

U.S. Navy, Naval Air Systems Command: Grumman US-2A Tracker aircraft, 
and a Grumman TS-2A Tracker aircraft. 

Mr. Virgil W. Vaughan: U.S. -Army Air Corps garrison cap, service coat, ser- 
vice breeches, belt, riding boots with spurs, officer's cap and summer shirt. 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 561 



Donors to the Records Management Division 

Mr. Chris Beilstein: 323 photographs of World War II and post- World War II 

U.S. and international aircraft. 
Mr. Wayne Bengston: 34 photographs of significant aviation events and 

aviators. 
Mrs. Victor Bonnano: 231 World War II photographs on P. I. "Pappy Gunn." 
Mr. Gary Brounstein : over 221 miscellaneous aircraft photographs. 
Mrs. Eloise and Mr. John Charlton: the Wes Archer Collection of Cockburn- 

Lange World War I documents and photographs (1 cubic foot). 
Mrs. Helen Dolan: Lindbergh photos and 1928 flight record. 
Mr. Fred Hoover: personal mementos. 
Mr. W. Klinefelter: 13 volumes Wright Martin publications, September 1916- 

February 1919. 
Mr. D. Merritt: 1842 letter on aeronautics. 
Mr. Herbert Nash: 941 photographs and slides, log, and clippings related to 

the Boeing C-97 aircraft. 
Mr. Walter Pentecost: 9 cassette tapes, 81 photographs of the Flying Tigers. 
Embry Riddle Aeronautical University: 150 cubic feet of technical manuals 

and photographs of U.S. civilian and military aircraft. 
Mr. Malcolm Rosholt: pictorial magazine of Flying Tigers and 9 photographs 

of American volunteer group. 
Mr. Charles A. Sanford: aviation insurance documents, complementing ma- 
terials donated last year. 
Mrs. Pat Thaden Webb and Mr. William V. Thaden: Louis Thaden Collection 

of photographs (1 cubic foot). 
Mr. Alfred Verville: over 15 cubic feet of documents, photographs, drawings 

and personal memorabilia. 
Mr. Bernard Vierling: 11 cubic feet of SST/FAA materials. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY/ 
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF MAN 



Donors of Financial Support 

J. Lawrence Angel 

American Gloxinia and Gesneriad 

Society 
Anonymous 
Mrs. E. L. Bethel 
The Bio-Energy Council 
Dr. and Mrs. J. F. Gates Clarke 
Diamond Shamrock Corporation 
Earthwatch 

Summer Gerard Foundation 
Mrs. Bea Gold 

Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth S. Hagen 
Edward P. Henderson 
Mrs. Gwendolyn A. Higgins 
Mr. Howard W. Hruschka 
Mrs. Marguerite H. Kellogg 
Estate of Mrs. Kei Kikuchi 
Mr. and Mrs. Wendell Lund 



Ms. Christine L. Mahoney 

Edgar J. Maiz 

R. B. Manning 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Miller 

Alexander J. Morin 

National Geographic Society 

C. L. Newcombe 

Dr. Paul V. Ponitz 

Mr. Lloyd E. Raport 

Mrs. Mary L. Ripley 

Richard W. Schey 

Ms. Virginia Lee Shirley 

The Sidney Fund 

W. Lloyd and Jean M. Southman 

Ms. Catherine Tarabulski 

Friends of Thailand, Inc. 

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Walsh 

Mr. and Mrs. John H. Young 



562 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Donors to the National Collections 



INSTITUTIONS 



Academia Sinica, China: 2 meteorites (351255, exchange); 29 fossils (351442, 
352301); 4 casts of human fossils (354830); 2 bird skins (353330, exchange). 

Academy of Sciences, USSR: 236 plants (354932, 355013, exchange); 20 crus- 
taceans (350575); 34 bird skeltons (349914, exchange); 41 fossils (354911, 
exchange). 

Adelaide, University of, Australia: 86 plants (355013, exchange). 

Agriculture, U.S. Department of: 391 plants (348648, 352213, 352605, 354376); 
5,742 insects (353081, 354269, 355227); 2 volcanic ash samples (353152). 

Alabama Cooperative Extension Service: 4 bamboos (351516). 

Alabama, University of: 41 ferns (353418); 34 crustaceans and 20 crustacean 
slides (352813; 355667); 11 fishes (353888). 

Alberta, University of, Canada: 60 plants (352211, 354035, exchanges). 

American Museum of Natural History: 57 plants (352906). 

Arabian American Oil Company, Saudi Arabia: 17 worms (353876). 

Arizona, University of: 26 plants (347537, 355009); 55 plants (351874, ex- 
change); 3 beetles (354259). 

Arizona State University: 12 plants (352592, exchange); 232 cicadas (354848). 

Arkansas, University of: 2 plants (355292). 

Australian Museum, Australia: 1 meteorite (352152, exchange); 25 crustaceans 
(354227). 

Baltimore Zoo: 4 mammals (353601). 

Bernice P. Bishop Museum: 468 plants (347202, 351182, 354984, exchanges); 
7 corals (353206); 3 mosquitoes (353064); 28 fishes (307556, 350167, 350176, 
350185, 353906, exchanges). 

Biosystematics Research Institute, Canada: 105 bamboos (352581, 354989); 
11 insects (353051, 353057, 353073, 354253); 5 small moths (355659, ex- 
change). 

Boston University: 10 crustaceans (353523); 7 worms (347608). 

Botanische Staatssammlung, Germany: 38 plants (347608); 175 plants (354089, 
exchange). 

Botanischer Garten and Botanische Museum, Germany: 21 plants (354092, 
exchange). 

Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Germany: 110 plants (350770, 352855, 
exchanges). 

Brigham Young University: 14 bird skins (353311, exchange); 2 plants 
(353469). 

British Columbia Provincial Museum, Canada: 2 mollusks (351030). 

British Museum (Natural History), England: 1 crustacean (349504); 45 plants 
(351201, exchange); 607 fossils (349504); 11 pumice samples (353164, ex- 
change); 2 insects (354261, exchange). 

Bryn Mawr College: 16 crustaceans, 1 echinoderm (354775). 

California Academy of Sciences: 1 mollusk (351377); 2 fruitflies (351819, ex- 
change); 31 plants (352232, 354918); 3 crustaceans (352283). 

California Department of Agriculture: 2 small moths (354267). 

California, University of: 151 plants (347230, 350736, 351223, 354349); 25 
crustaceans (347327); 4 insects (355663); 18 fossils (354733); 525 worm 
slides (311314); Scripps Institution of Oceanography: 309 crustaceans 
(352285, 352331, 352811, 355240); 38 sponges (329211). 

California State University: 3 crustaceans (353199). 

Cambridge, University of, England: 3 volcanic rocks (353153, exchange). 

Canada Pacific Biological Station, Canada: 3 crustaceans (351668, 354464). 

Canfield Fund: 1 mineral (352721). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 563 



Cape Town, University of. South Africa: 14 crustaceans (255217). 

Carnegie Museum: a cast of a fossil bear's jaw (351428). 

Centre National de Tri d'Oceanographie Biologique, France: 10 worms 

(353879). 
Centre Orstom de Cayenne, France: 147 plants (350752, 352838). 
Centro de Pesquisas do Cacau, Brazil: 8 plants (341429, 350273, exchanges); 

11 plants (355014). 
Centro Internacional de la Papa, Peru: 27 plants (346530). 
Chadron State College: 5 plants (351917). 
Chamberlain Fund: 2 faceted gems (352489). 
Chile, University of, Chile: 50 fruitflies (351686, exchange). 
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong: 30 plants (352586, exchange). 
Clemson University: 4 dry sponges (353190). 
Colegio de Postgraduados, Mexico: 1 plant (354983). 
College of Great Falls: 6 plants (354330). 
Commerce, U.S. Department of: 13 volcanic ash and glass samples (353129, 

353159); 4 dolphins and 34 assorted marine mammals (350058, 350071). 
Commonwealth Associates Inc.: 1 echinoderm (346021). 
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Australia: 

2 minerals (351572, 354583); 1 insect (354139, exchange). 
Copenhagen, University of, Denmark: 11 worms (352928). 
Cornell University: 6 insects (353056); 20 corals (354500, 355184); 56 plants 

(352640, 355279, exchanges). 
Cureton Mineral Company: 13 minerals (354549, exchange). 
Dames and Moore: 2 fishes (355025). 
Defense, U.S. Department of. Department of the Army: 2 insects (355234); 

369 worms (351656); Department of the Navy: 3 manganese crust samples 

(353166); 40 worms (353495). 
Delaware, University of: 200 echinoderms, 43 fishes, 5,000 worms (351648). 
Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, New Zealand: 2 moths 

(353702, exchange). 
Dickinson College: 1 plant (354980). 
Drake Fund: 9,156 true bugs (354250, 354840). 
Duke Medical Center: 8 minerals (354291, exchange). 

Duke University Herbarium: 523 plants (350767, 353475, 354997, exchanges). 
Escuda Nacional de Agricultura, Mexico: 39 plants and 3 bamboos (352604); 

10 plants (352604, exchange). 
Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biologicas, Mexico: 110 plants (351236, ex- 
change). 
Fairchild Tropical Garden: 2 plants (352839, 353391); 71 plants (352876, 

exchange). 
Fairfield Osborn Preserve: 90 crustaceans (352718). 
Fairleigh-Dickinson University: 2 minerals (352319). 
Field Museum of Natural History: 108 plants (348659, 351521, 351878, 354085, 

354094, 355304); 70 plants (355304, exchange); 61 crustaceans (354554); 18 

fishes (351120, 353894, exchanges); 3 tadpoles (351720, exchange). 
Fiji Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Fiji: 8 crustaceans, 10 fishes 

(351121). 
Florida Department of Natural Resources: 1 crustacean (350899). 
Florida International University: 13 crustaceans (354570). 

Florida, University of: 1 plant (351191, exchange); 1 plant (355012); 16 crus- 
taceans (278402); Florida State Museum: 47 crustaceans (350866, 352286, 

353200, 355599); 10 fishes (350163). 
Florida State University: 44 plants (352237, exchange); 356 crustaceans 

(338820, 351402, 353198, 353483, 354696, 354742). 



564 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Forschungsinstitut Senekenberg, Germany: 1 plaster cast of 9 brachiopods 
(353854). 

Fundacao Insituto Brasileiro de geografia e Estatistica, Brazil: 116 plants 
(346542). 

Fundacion Jardin Botanico, Colombia: 1 plant (353452). 

Fundacion Miquel Lillo, Argentina: 25 mayflies (355665). 

Gemological Institute of America: 3 minerals (352732, exchange). 

Geological Survey of Canada, Canada: 4 minerals (352726, exchange). 

Geophysical Laboratory: 1 mineral (351298). 

Georgia Department of Natural Resources: 28 crustaceans (352713). 

Georgia Museum of Arts and Sciences: 86 fossils (352120). 

Georgia, University of: 16 plants (349132). 

Goteborg, University of, Sweden: Botanical Museum: 143 plants (348192, 
348637, 351841, 355275, 355310); 211 plants (351458, 352606, exchanges); 
5 worms (351299). 

Graz, University of Australia: 1 plant (350766). 

Grice Marine Biological Laboratory: 2 fishes (351125). 

Gulf Coast Research Laboratory: 5 crustaceans (354903); Museum: 12 crusta- 
ceans (352312). 

Harbor Branch Foundation, Inc.: 1 coral (354720). 

Harvard University: Botanical Museum: 17 plants (346606); 5 echinoderms 
(350584); Gray Herbarium: 12 plants (351832, 354946); 877 plants (351833, 
352613, 352635, 353455, exchanges); Museum of Comparative Zoology: 9 
echinoderms (353375); 1 fish (353895); a tail and a hind limb of a fossil 
Eryops (355522, exchange). 

Hawaii, University of: 116 plants (349150, 350737, 352918, 353376); 17 echino- 
derms (348685); 2 fishes (335128). 

Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel: 1 fish (352410); 44 plants (354106). 

Helsingfors Universitets Zoologiska Institution, Finland: 2 seals (350075). 

Herbario Alberto Castellanos, Brazil: 176 plants (346598, 348604, 351894, 
355313). 

Herbario Centro de Pesquisas do Cacau (CEPEC), Brazil: 53 plants (355268). 

Herbario Nacional de Bolivia, Bolivia: 131 plants (347582); 95 plants (347582, 
exchange). 

Herbario Nacional Colombiano, Colombia: 2 plants (354329). 

Herbario Nacional de Mexico, Mexico: 204 plants (352205, exchange). 

Herbario Unicamp-U.E.C, Brazil: 74 plants (352834, exchange). 

Herbarium Australiense, Australia: 165 plants (351863, 354418, exchanges). 

Herbarium Vadense, The Netherlands: 1 plant (352578). 

Herbier du Centre Orstom de Cayenne, France: 720 plants (351188, 354088, 
354955, 355288, 355289). 

Herbier National de Cameroun, Cameroun: 1 plant (352903). 

Hillman Foundation Grant: 1 mineral (353172). 

Houston, University of: 8 crustaceans (352815). 

Hubbs — Sea World Research Institute: a pair of whale earbones (350077). 

Illinois, University of: 239 plants (354334, 355297, exchanges); 2 plants 
(353382). 

Indian River Coastal Zone Museum: 28 echinoderms (351257, 352306, 352719). 

Institut de Recherches Entomologiques de la Caraibe, French Antilles: 2 
beetles (353364, exchange). 

Institut fiir Mineralogie und Kristallographie der Universitat Wien, Austria: 
1 mineral (354527). 

Institut fiir Zoologie der Universitat Wien Abteilung fiir Meeresbiologie, 
Austria: 6 worms (352796). 

Institute for Botanical Exploration: 379 plants (352648). 

Institute of Jamaica, Jamaica: 14 plants (349121, exchange). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 565 



Institute of Marine Affairs, Trinidad and Tobago: 11 crustaceans (355555). 

Institute of Ocean Sciences, British Columbia: 78 worms and 8 worm slides 
(353560). 

Institute for Systematic Botany, The Netherlands: 240 plants (346239, 351473, 
351866, 352840, 355313, exchanges); 42 plants (346239, 347228, 355315). 

Institute Argentine de Oceanografia, Argentina: 4 crustaceans (354240). 

Institute Botanico, Venezuela: 71 plants (355278, exchange); 503 plants 
(346200, 347567, 347587, 355277, 355298, 355299). 

Institute Botanico A.J. Cavanilles, Spain: 36 plants (352984, exchange). 

Institute Brasileiro de Geografia E Estatistica, Brazil: 678 plants (347229, 
348164, 349097, 354368, 355016). 

Institute de Botanica Darwinion, Argentina: 224 plants (352572, 354921, 
exchanges). 

Institute di Mineralogia dell Universita, Italy: 1 mineral (354705). 

Institute Nacienal de Investigaciones Sobre Recursos Bieticos, Mexico: 33 
bamboos (351895). 

Institute Nacienal de Parques, Venezuela: 19 plants (351195, exchange); 628 
plants (350676, 350759, 351178, 351222, 351235, 351240, 352268, 352570, 
355259). 

Institute Nacienal de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Brazil: 158 plants (352203, 
352204, 352907, 354020); 2 insects (354252). 

Institute Universitario de Tecnolegia, Venezuela: 15 plants (347244). 

Instituut veer Taxenomische Zoelegie, The Netherlands: 14 echinoderms 
(352072, exchange); 8 corals (352700). 

Interior, U.S. Department of: Bureau of Land Management: 50,000 echino- 
derms (345592); U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service: 1,996 birds (349874, 351992, 
351993, 351994, 352032, 353325, 353340); 675 mammals (353619, 353639); 
24 reptiles or amphibians (346032, 349739, 350375, 351726); U.S. Geological 
Survey: 1 bird (352045); 102 crustaceans (351426, 352787); 76 minerals 
(350582, 352555, 352701, 353853, 354577, 354702); 310 petrology and vol- 
canology samples (353127, 353128, 353144, 353146, 353147, 353156, 353158, 
353160, 353161, 353162); 300 mellusks (333066); 125,838 fossils (351439, 
351589, 351672, 352302, 352506, 352753, 352827, 352954, 353497, 353557, 
353848, 354528, 355136, 355137, 355138, 355139, 355210, 355523, 355548, 
355549, 355550, 355551, 355694, 355696); National Park Service: 1 fossil 
(352823); 16 geologic samples (353135). 

Invemar, South America: 15 echinoderms (352549, 354773). 

International Crane Foundation: 2 cranes (352041). 

International Potato Center, Peru: 178 plants (347610, 348614, 349688, 353454, 
354937). 

Iowa State University: 13 bamboos (353381, exchange); 29 plants (346160, 
351179). 

Japan Whaling Association, Japan: 1 seal (353628). 

Jardin Botanico Nacienal, Santo Domingo: 10 plants (355264, exchange); 1 
plant (355337). 

Jardin Botanico de Maracaibe, Venezuela: 396 plants (348151, 354037). 

Jardin Botanico de Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 107 plants (354991, exchange). 

Jardin Betanique National de Belgique, Belgium: 8 plants (346603); 45 plants 
(346603, 352615, exchanges). 

Kansas, University of: 11 crustaceans (354512). 

Katholieke Universitt, The Netherlands: 41 mites (353080). 

Kentucky, University of. See also North Carolina State Museum of National 
History (287783). 

Kidd Creek Mines Ltd., Canada: 4 minerals (354284). 

Kuwait University, Kuwait: 147 plants (354361); 4 crustaceans (354514). 



566 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Kyushu University, Japan: 1 mineral (349558, exchange). 

Lae, Papua and New Guinea, Government of. Department of Primary Indus- 
try: 48 plants (351241, exchange). 

Lockheed Ocean Science Laboratory: 2 echinoderms (351929). 

Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History: 5 worms (351268); 8 mol- 
lusks (352969); 17 ants (353069). 

Los Angeles Zoo: 41 monkeys (350016). 

Maine, University of: 4 plants (352836). 

Malaya, University of, Malaysia: 32 plants (354971, exchange). 

Manitoba, University of, Canada: 2 plants (353429). 

Manomet Bird Observatory: 2 bird skins and skeletons (352014, 353282). 

Marie Selby Botanical Gardens: 146 plants (348140, 352207, 355389); 46 plants 
(352207, exchange). 

Maryland, University of: 2 crustaceans (350900); 70 plants (355002, exchange). 

McNeese State University: 1,425 worms (351649). 

Memorial University of New Foundland, Canada: 7 marine mammals (353622). 

Memphis State University: 4 plants (351887). 

Mexico, Government of: 75 dance masks (353025). 

Miami, University of: Rosentiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science: 
1 crustacean and 5 crustacean slides (295887). 

Michigan, University of. Herbarium: 251 plants (352874, 354332, 355015, ex- 
changes); 1 plant (354360); 221 crustaceans (351296); 11 fishes (352402, 
exchange); a cast of a fossil sirenian (347657, exchange). 

Milwaukee, Public Museum: 62 ground beetles (324152, exchange). 

Mineral Fund: 51 minerals (352288, 352496, 352553, 352691, 352692, 352703, 
354586, 353014). 

Missouri Botanical Garden: 670 plants (351197, 352258, 352607, 352884, 
353417, 354941, exchanges); 2,220 plants (346196, 347219, 347232, 347246, 
347533, 347581, 348126, 348588, 348591, 348628, 349690, 351142, 351491, 
351849, 351916, 352247, 352249, 352255, 352270, 352608, 352886, 353406, 
353459, 353464, 354078, 354099, 354379, 354387, 354939, 354944, 354951, 
355302, 355321, 355361). 

Moclips Cetological Society: 1 beaked whale (353627). 

Montana State University: 6 crustaceans (354902). 

Musee Royal de L'Afrique Centrale, Belgium: 1 mineral (352961). 

Museo Biologico Nacional, Paraquay: 219 plants (351164). 

Museo Botanico Municipal, Brazil: 130 plants (351526, 354084). 

Museo Nacional de Costa Rica, Costa Rica: 1 plant (351872). 

Museo Nacional de Historia Natural, Chile: 20 plants (350722). 

Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, Brazil: 3 plants (351144). 

Museum National d'Historie Naturalle, France: 351 plants (352611, 354990, 
355330, exchanges). 

Muzeum v Bojniciach, Czechoslovakia: 81 crustaceans (354565, exchange). 

Mystic Marinelife Aquarium: 8 white beaked whales and 1 true beaked whale 
(353598). 

National Aeronautics and Space Administration: 2 tektites (354274). 

National Committee of Soviet Biologists, USSR: 14 water beetles (353370, 
exchange). 

National Institute of Health: 6 chimpanzee skeletons (354829). 

National Museum of Natural Sciences, Canada: 216 plants (352210, exchange); 
145 crustaceans (353995). 

National Museum of Korea, Korea: 3 porcelain pieces and 3 silk cushions 
(353027). 

National Museum of New Zealand, New Zealand: 2 echinoderms (349573); 
1 fish (351106); 9 crustaceans (352482); 1 bird skeleton (353332). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 567 



National Museum of Wales, Wales: 1 mineral (354703). 

National Science Foundation: 186 birds, 47 bats (351970). 

National Science Museum, Japan: 2 minerals (352952). 

National Sun Yat-Sen University, China: 15 fishes (353892). 

Naturhistoriska Rikmuseet, Sweden: 10 fishes (350175). 

New England Aquarium: 10 marine mammals (350013). 

New Jersey Zinc Company, Incorporated: 5 minerals (351552, 354526). 

New Mexico, University of: 1 plant (354016). 

New Mexico State University: 14 plants (352246, 354927). 

New York Botanical Garden: 2,738 plants (351145, 352599, 354090, exchanges); 

1,000 plants (346604, 347565, 349683, 352266, 352624, 352881, 353425, 

354024, 354928, 354993, 355316). 
New Zealand Geological Survey, New Zealand: 1 mineral (354701). 
North Carolina, University of: 28 crustaceans (352960); 76 plants (354359). 
North Carolina State Museum of Natural History: 4 fishes (287783); 4 echino- 

derm slides (352343). 
North Carolina State University: 6 plants (354963). 
Northeastern University: 1 dolphin skull (349495, exchange). 
Northeast Louisiana University: 1 plant (352577); 187 plants (353411, ex- 
change). 
Northern Illinois University: 2 fishes (350183). 
Northern Territory Museum of Arts and Sciences, Australia: 3 crustaceans 

(352812, 354752). 
Ohio State University: 10 birds (351995); 1 plant (352226); 5 crustaceans 

(354776). 
Oklahoma, University of: 2 corals (355197). 

Otago, University of. New Zealand: 8 petrology samples (353130). 
Oxford, University of, England: 25 plants (351483, 354093). 
Papua New Guinea, University of. New Guinea: 1 plant (353377). 
Pennsylvania State University: 27 tiger beetles (353544, exchange). 
Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences: 2 fishes (352395, 353913). 
Philippines, University of: 14 plants (351870). 
Pittsburgh Aviary: 15 birds (353347). 

Plumbago Mining Corporation: 1 neuel gem pit (335396, exchange). 
Princeton University: 1,500 fossils (353513). 
Puerto Rico, University of: 413 crustaceans (349767, 351699, 352303, 352958): 

21 echinoderms (343578); 34 worms (351444, 352335). 
Purdue University: 1 mayfly (354268). 

Queensland Herbarium, Australia: 146 plants (354922, exchange). 
Queensland National Parks and Wildlife Service, Australia: 11 echinoderms 

(352333). 
Queensland, University of, Australia: 9 crustaceans (353873). 
Raymond Technical Facilities Incorporated: 3 crustaceans, 4 echinoderms, 8 

fossils (353207). 
Reserva Ecologica do Instituto Brasilerica de Geografia e Estatistica, Brazil: 

1,684 plants (348113, 348115, 348117, 348642, 350197, 350200, 350229, 

351229, 351455, 351532, 352924, 354331). 
Rhodes University: J.L.B. Smith Institute of Ichthyology, South Africa: 32 

fishes (351124, 355030). 
Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, The Netherlands: 6 crustaceans 

(348759, exchange); 22 echinoderms (352071, exchange). 
Rochester, University of: 69 crustaceans (351548). 
Roebling Fund: 65 minerals (351706, 351707, 352486, 352487, 352702, 353512, 

353996, 354629). 
Roland W. Brown Fund: 2 pieces of petrified wood and 13 polished ambers 

(354778, 355616). 



568 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Royal Botanic Gardens, Australia: 63 plants (354415, exchange). 

Royal Botanic Gardens, England: 547 plants (350739, 350746, 352208, 352598, 

352657, 353380, exchanges); 21 plants (350739, 352587, 355306). 
Saint Joseph's College, India: 24 plants (348204, 351510). 
Salisbury Zoological Park: 1 black-backed gull (352055). 
San Diego Natural History Museum: 75 echinoderms (285361); 1 bird skeleton 

(349885, exchange); 18 caddisflies (354290); 5 lacewings (354290, exchange); 

59 plants (355001, exchange). 
Santo Domingo Museum of Natural History, Dominican Republic: 2 crusta- 
ceans (330893). 
Saudi Arabian Tetra Tech, Ltd.: Saudi Arabia: 1,000 worms (353878). 
Servicio Forestal Nacional, Paraguay: 179 fishes (350193). 
Shell Oil Company: 25 crustaceans (353551). 
Sonoma State University: 5 marine algaes (353393). 
South Alabama, University of: 27 crustaceans (351705, 355587); 2 fishes 

(353881). 
South Australia State Herbarium, Australia: 46 plants (352663, exchange). 
South Dakota School of Mines: 30 minerals (350893, 352505). 
South Florida, University of: 2 plants (351219, 351238). 

Southern California, University of: 21 plants (351883); Allan Hancock Foun- 
dation: 33 worms (290995); 3 crustaceans (354753). 
Southern Illinois University: 110 crustaceans (353010). 
Southeastern Oklahoma State University: 99 plants (352661, exchange). 
Southwestern Louisiana, University of: 26 crustaceans (351250, 351703, 

354901, 355020). 
Soviet Antarctic Company. See also Japan Whaling Association (353628). 
Springer Fund: 857 fossils (352145). 
Staatliches Forschungsinstitut fiir Angewandte Mineralogie, Germany: 1 

mineral (351323). 
Staatliches Naturhistorisches Museum, Germany: 1 fish (350174). 
Stafford Senior High School: 1 fossil brittlestar (354202). 
Stillwater PGM Resources: 1 platinum and palladium sample (353149). 
T.F.H. Publications Incorporated: 18 fishes (350168, 353890). 
Technische Universitat, Germany: 5 minerals (351549, 351550). 
Tel-Aviv, University of, Israel: 10 crustaceans (351547); 609 flower flies 

(353540, 354847, exchanges). 
Tennessee, University of: 559 crustaceans, 25 mollusks (352341). 
Tennessee Valley Authority: 27 mollusks (349026); 1 mineral (354601). 
Termeszettudomanyi Museum Allatarra, Hungary: 14 flies (349519, exchange). 
Texas A&M University: 35 crustaceans (274523, 349831, 352789, 353353, 

355195); 8 plants (349106); 320 plants (349118, 351190, exchanges). 
Texasgulf Incorporated: 1 zinc ore sample (353150). 
Texas Memorial Museum: 3 crustaceans (353213). 
Texas Tech University: 3 ants (353039); 10 crustaceans (355691). 
Texas, University of: 25 crustaceans, 1 frog (351606, exchange); 7 worms 

(353360). 
Tokyo, University of, Japan: 19 dolphin skulls (350032). 
Tokyo University of Fisheries, Japan: 13 crustaceans (353482, 354718). 
Treasury, U.S. Department of: 2 crustaceans (351251). 
Tsukuba, University of, Japan: 1 mineral (354588). 
Tulane University: 8 plants (349145, 354427). 
Universidad Catolica de Valparaiso, Chile: 6 fishes (355026). 
Universidad Central de Venezuela, Venezuela: 402 fishes (316831, 350162); 

32 plants (348108, 353420); 11 plants (354988, exchange); 8 crustaceans 

(351546). 
Universidad de Antioquia, Colombia: 68 plants (347233, 350768, 352253). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 569 



Universidad de Buenos Aires, Argentina: 1 plant (354102). 

Universidad de Concepcion, Chile: 1 fish (345855). 

Universidad de Costa Rica, Costa Rica: 45 fishes (350181, 352399). 

Universidad de El Salvador, El Salvador: 18 crustaceans (279754). 

Universidad de Los Andes, Venezuela: 241 plants (346170, 347165, 347214, 

348122, 350774, 351855, 352923, 354933). 
Universidad Mayor de San Andes, Bolivia: 30 plants (347557). 
Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, Mexico: 25 crustaceans (351927). 
Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Colombia: 266 plants (353451, 354091, 

exchanges); 193 plants (347555, 354091). 
Universidad Nacional del Nordeste, Argentina: 527 plants (347173, 349113, 

351447, 352664); 71 plants (352664, exchange). 
Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos de Lima, Lima: 225 plants 

(248194, 352922); 106 plants (352922, exchange). 
Universidad de Sao Paulo, Brazil: 13 plants (351446); 58 fishes (351109, ex- 
change). 
Universidade de Brasilia, Brazil: 1,013 plants (354076, 355267); 12 rodents 

(353625). 
Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Brazil: 7 fishes (351108, exchange). 
Universidade Estadual Paulista, Brazil: 29 plants (354054). 
Universita di Roma, Italy: 1 mineral (354244, exchange). 
Universitat Heidelberg, Germany: 4 plants (351488, exchange); 1 plant 

(352231). 
Universitat Stuttgart, Germany: 3 minerals (350881, 53555); 1 mineral (352723, 

exchange). 
Universite de Liege, Belgium: 1 mineral (351580, exchange). 
Universite Laval, Canada: 1 plant (354992). 
University for Agriculture: Herbarium Vadense, The Netherlands: 117 plants 

(350205). 
University College, Ireland: 20 algaes (352919, exchange). 
University of the South: 102 crustaceans (354777). 
Uppsala, University of, Sweden: 25 plants (354017, exchange). 
Utah, University of: 104 plants (351856). 

Vanderbilt University Herbarium: 22 plants (354336, exchange). 
Victoria, University of, Canada: 3 crustaceans (355469). 
Virginia Commonwealth University: 1 plant (355285). 
Virginia Highlands Community College: 1 plant (355284). 
Virginia Institute of Marine Sciences: 3 fishes (351112); 1,005 worms (333399, 

341920). 
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 1 mineral (352495). 
Vrije Universitet, The Netherlands: 9 olivine gabbros and iron ore samples 

(353134). 
Walcott Fund: 20,000 fossils (351591); a fossil porpoise skull (355519); a 

fossil whale skull (355520). 
Washington State Game Department: 2 beaked whales (353640). 
Washington, University of: Thomas Burke Washington State Museum: 10 

bird skeletons (353309, exchange). 
Washington State University: 310 plants (353473, exchange). 
Wellcome Parasitology Unit, Brazil: 207 mammals (350061). 
Western Australian Museum, Australia: 23 fishes (350112, 353912, 355028). 
Western Kentucky University: 10 crustaceans (352791). 
Wisconsin, University of: 216 plants (351860, 351899, 352221, exchanges); 55 

plants (347241, 351208, 351234, 351513, 351826, 352230, 354104, 354931). 
Worcester Polytechnic Institute: 1 mineral (352521, exchange). 
Wuhan College of Geology, China: 15 gastropods (354868). 



570 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Yale University: 6 crustaceans (353204); Peabody Museum: 220 leaf beetles 

(353121); 10 cast of fossil marine mammals (355505, exchange). 
Zoologisches Institut der Universitat Miinchen, Germany: 1 sponge (350903). 



INDIVIDUALS 



Aalbu, Rolf L.: 30 insects (354206). 

Aaronheim, Robert E.: 175 butterflies (353087, 355658). 

Adams, Billy T.: a partial fossil upper molar of a mastodon (355255). 

Adelberg, Mrs. Barbara: 6,690 butterflies (353055). 

Alcazar, Sally N.: 8 mollusks (349480). 

Amor, Dr. Analia: 1 worm (355621). 

Anderson, Joseph: 16 moss beetles (353034). 

Anselmo, Ronald P.: 461 gems (329811). 

Ash, Dr. Sidney R.: 10 fossil plants and 1 fossil plant slide (355565). 

Ashley, Burton E.: 31 minerals (352821). 

Astleford, Betty L. See also Robert L. Astleford (348037). 

Astleford, Robert L. : 1 eight panel Chinese jade screen (348037). 

Baggett, Dave: 43 insects (353043). 

Bailey-Brock, Dr. Julia: 43 worms (343526). 

Baker, Aura L. : a fossil femur and a tibia end of a seal (355510). 

Baker, H. Randy (Deceased): 19 worms (352722, 355168). 

Barata, Jose: a fossil seal metacarpal (352694). 

Barnes, Dr. Christopher R.: 47 conodonts microslides (354559). 

Barbour, Henry: 3 minerals (352124). 

Barnby, Mark A.: 110 insects (354264). 

Bauer, Dr. Ray: 40 mollusks (351374). 

Baugh, James: half of a mastodon tooth (352822). 

Bay, Ernest C: 72 fishes (352408). 

Beetle, Dr. A. A.: 21 plants (347248). 

Begley, Robert: 1 mineral (351659). 

Bell, Dr. Robert E.: 2 human skeletons (355225). 

Bellamy, Dr. Charles: 106 seed and leaf beetles (353048); 21 metallic wood- 
boring beetles (353835). 

Belshser, Dennis O.: 7 minerals (352962). 

Bernabe, Ezio: 13 minerals (353568, exchange). 

Bernard, Dr. Frank: 2 mollusks (351930). 

Bertach, Dr. Hans: 2 echinoderms (353724). 

Biernbaum, Dr. Charles K. : 2 crustaceans (353831). 

Bivin, Captain Kenneth L.: 3,200 beetles (353092). 

Blake, Dr. Daniel: cast of a starfish (353230). 

Blake, Dr. James A.: 88 worms (354287). 

Blake, Dr. Nancy Maciolek: 13 worms (354462). 

Blanchard, Andre: 11 small moths (355655, 355880); (see also Knudson, Dr. 
Edward C, 355882). 

Blasdell, Francis 5.: 18 reptiles and amphibians (351765). 

Bogner, Josef: 95 plants (347607). 

Bongers, Tom: 1,000 worms (352148). 

Boone, Mrs. Hollis Q.: 100 mollusks (353692). 

Boulier, Kenneth: 1 mineral (352968). 

Boursot, John: 19 crustaceans (349642, 354297). 

Boyd, Jerry Richard: 1 fossil (354175). 

Bradley, Mrs. Evelyn F. : a fossil horse femur and a whale earbone (354170). 

Brandon, Marielle: 5 marine mollusks (354461). 
Bratcher, Twila: 1 coral (351592). 

Brewer, George N.: 10 minerals (352966). 

Brinkhurst, Dr. Ralph O.: 1,069 worms (354755, 355211). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 571 



Brokaw, Clifford V., Ill: 1 topaz (353208). 

Brou, Vernon Antoine: 102 small moths (355230). 

Brown, Dr. F. Martin: 112 moths (353047). 

Browning, Jack A.: 1 quartz (354600). 

Bruce, Dr. Robin W.: 26 fishes (355037). 

Bruckner, Helmut: 1 mineral (354699). 

Brumbach, William C: 17 plants (351196). 

Buckingham, Nelsa M.: 1 plant (355349). 

Burdick, Dennis W.: 28 fossil slabs (334546). 

Burgess, Mrs. Ruth Ann: 1 fossil braincase with a partial horn core (354172). 

Burns, Dr. J. M.: 1 insect (354844). 

Burns, Reverend Paul C: 4 fishes (351111). 

Burreson, Dr. Eugene M.: 4 worms (352795). 

Busack, Gail A.: a salamander and a turtle skeleton (351780). 

Bussard, Pierre: a crocodile skull (353730). 

Byer, Stephen B.: 750 letters and manuscripts of Dr. George F. Kunz (348065). 

Campbell, Thomas: 2 minerals (350931). 

Cand, Jean-Pierre: 1 mineral (351138, exchange). 

Carlson, Dr. Sandy: 1 fossil (354866). 

Carney, Dr. Robert S.: 50 echinoderms, 59 worms (352305). 

Casagrande, Luigi g Renzo: 5 minerals (352990, exchange). 

Catlin, John Wm.: 1 bamboo (351873). 

Cernohorsky, Dr. Walter O.: 8 mollusks (350482). 

Chalumeau, Dr. F.: 26 beetles (353072, 354265). 

Chandler, Dr. Donald S.: 6 beetles (355660). 

Chaney, Dan 5.: a collection of 482 fossils (352825). 

Chang-Po, Cheng: 100 worms (351557). 

Ching, Dr. Carlos A.: 23 shrimps (352570). 

Christie, Dr. David: 23 dredged samples (353138). 

Cianciulli, John: 1 mineral (354466). 

Clapp, Roger, III: 1 snake skeleton (351783). 

Clark, Dr. Arthur H.: 1 mollusk (355471). 

Clark, Dr. J. F. Gates: 1,081 miscellaneous insects (353035, 353061). 

Coe, Mr. & Mrs. Peter: 2 human skeletal fragments (355224). 

Comin-Chiaramonti, Dr. Piero: 4 analcime-bearing rocks (353148). 

Conner, Kathy: 1 piece of a whale tooth (332518). 

Cooper, Dan I.: 1 fossil slab (352300). 

Corbett, Herbert: 2 minerals (352967). 

Corder, Mrs. Michell: 2 crustaceans (351404). 

Costa, Dr. Cleide: 1 ground beetle (353067). 

Couturier, Dr. G.: 5 lace bugs (355229). 

Covell, Dr. Charles V., Jr.: 332 moths and butterflies (353098). 

Cox, Philip: a fossil auk humerus (352559). 

Coyle, Kenneth O.: 10 crustaceans (351654). 

Croft, Richard: 132 crustaceans (347387). 

Cross, Dr. Jarrett L.: 11,702 miscellaneous insects (354257). 

Crumly, Charles R.: 3 frog skeletons (351782). 

Daggy, Dr. Tom: 20 weevils (353041). 

Danielsson, Roy: 26 aphid slides (353076). 

Davis, Dr. Don R.: 1,234 miscellaneous insects (353070). 

Dayvault, Richard: a fossil squalodon tooth (354169). 

Decker, Colin J.: 58 miscellaneous insects (354843). 

Deonier, Dr. Richard: 25,367 shoreflies (352930). 

de Wailly, Dr.: 3,041 ground beetles (353066, exchange). 

Dexter, Dr. Deborah: 1 crustacean, 463 worms (351935). 

Dietz, Augustus: 10 cut gems (347677, exchange). 



572 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Dockery, Dr. David T., Ill: 42 fossils (352494). 

Douglas, Raymond: a collection of fossil bird and mammal remains (351427). 
Downer, Mrs. Audrey C: 1 potoo skeleton (352017). 
Duncan, Thomas O.: 2 fishes (353896). 
DuPont, James M.: 2 meteorites (350491, exchange). 
Duque, C. : 2 echinoderms (350871). 
Dye, George: 1 fish (353898). 

Eadington, Dr. P. J.: 3 quartz-topaz rocks (353131). 
Eckhart, Mr. & Mrs. Carl: 3 ash glass items (351132). 
Ehrenberg, Dr. Stephen: 225 garnet Iherzolites (353136). 
Emerson, Dr. K. C: 100 lice (353045). 
Emerson, Dr. William K.: 6 mollusks (347707). 
England, Dr. Brian: 6 gypsums (354587). 
Epstein, Marc: 71 ground beetles (355657). 
Eriksson, Roland: 45 minerals (352316, 354467). 
Ernst, Carl H.: 8 frogs (353750). 
Erseus, Christer: 5 worms (352080). 
Escayg, Gerry: 1 worm (353022). 
Etnier, Dr. D. A.: 997 caddisflies (354255). 

Everette, John D.: the distal of a left femur of a pelican (355506). 
Featherstone, Wray W. : 1 glass faceted gem (350879). 
Feinglos, Dr. Mark: 10 minerals (354803, exchange). 
Felker, Allan: 3 minerals (353562). 

Ferguson, Dr. Douglas C. : 2,865 moths and butterflies (353099). 
Ferraiolo, James: 1 mineral (354584). 
Ferreira, Dr. Antonio J.: 191 mollusks (351373, 352491). 
Fincher, Dr. Truman: 1 beetle (352948). 
Finger, Dr. Kenneth L. : 20 ostracodes (351432). 

Flint, Dr. & Mrs. Oliver S., Jr.: 1,344 miscellaneous insects (353085). 
Flower, Dr. Rousseau H. : 50 brachiopods (354286). 
Folsom, James P.: 48 plants (343510). 

Fonger, George C: a collection of fossil fish and reptile remains (355692). 
Fowler, James: 4 minerals (353554). 
Fox, Dr. Richard S.: 1 worm (353728). 
Foye, Harry: 5 minerals (353553, 354628). 
Francis, Mr. & Mrs. Bob: 1 mineral (354507). 

Frazier, Dr. John G.: 50 mollusks (330168); 870 worms (349033); 8 bird skele- 
tons, 25 mollusks, 3 fossil echinoids (350354); 5 birds (352042). 
Friis, Dr. Elso-Marie: 17 fossils (350526, exchange). 

Froeschner, Dr. Richard C. : 361 miscellaneous insects (353042, 354256). 
Frye, Richard L.: a fossil ulna of a felis (354174). 
Garrison, Dr. Rosser W. : 1 dragonfly (353713). 
Gaspare, Maletto: 2 minerals (352731, exchange). 
Gaspari, Giovanni: 3 minerals (352998, exchange). 
Gardner, James E. : 1 crustacean (352716). 
Gerberich, Andrew: 63 crustaceans (352504, 352956). 
Gerk, Arthur: 5,872 gastropods (355557). 
Germon, Raye N.: 1 marine mollusk (354687). 
Gibson, Dr. Ray: 80 worms (354774). 
Gilbert, Douglas K.: 10 mollusks (351653). 
Gillespie, Dr. William: 8 fossils (354442). 
Glenn, Leroy, Jr.: plastic cast of two skull caps (332438). 
Gooday, Dr. A. J.: 200 fossils (352503). 
Gordh, Dr. Gordon: 11 insects (353077). 
Gottschald, Dr. John 5.: 17 beetles (354262). 
Grau, Professor J.: 3 fruits (352281). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 573 



Grady, Frederick V.: a collection of fossils (352103). 

Greening, Holly: 4 crustaceans (353723). 

Griggs, Zoe A., Estate of : 11 minerals (349780). 

Gunther, Lloyd F.: 17 fossils (352752). 

Hadley, F. E.: 1 brachiopod cast (354242). 

Hall, George K. & Virginia C.: a collection of 945 polished opals (346119). 

Hall, Jack: 1 insect (354433). 

Handley, Dr. Charles O., Jr.: 64 assorted small mammals (350081). 

Harkless, Mr. & Mrs. Ray: cast of a bison tooth and a fragment of a smilo- 

don jaw (353984). 
Harman, Dr. Walter J.: 3 worms (354808). 
Harmatuk, Peter J.: a collection of 2,347 fossil fish, reptile, bird and mammal 

remains (351429, 352567). 
Harrington, Francis A.: 1 lizard (350063). 

Harry, Dr. Harold W.: 3 crustaceans (351135); 9 mollusks (352076). 
Hartstein, Eugene F.: 2 fossil seal bones (352696). 
Harwood, Dr. David: 3 diatom holotype slides (352142). 
Hatton, Dr. C. J.: 198 petrology samples (353168). 
Hayes, Fred: 2 fossil seal bones (354108). 
Hecker, Barbara: 11 deep water corals (353188). 
Henderson, William A.: 3 minerals (350932). 
Hendricks, Dr. Michael E.: 7 echinoderms (351320). 
Henning, Mr. & Mrs. Philip: 9 quartzes (350895). 
Heslinga, Jerry: 500 marine mollusks (354754). 
Hespenheide, Dr. Henry A.: 54 beetles (353059). 
Hevel, Gary F.: 13,967 miscellaneous insects (354273, 354831). 
Hernandez, Aguilera, Dr. Jorge Luis: 1 crustacean (353511). 
Hilchie, Dr. Gerald J.: 6 wasps (354270). 

Hoffman, Dr. R. L.: 22 crustaceans (352075); 1 beetle (353044). 
Holt, Dr. Perry C.: 8 worms (353358, 355219). 
Hope, Dr. W. Duane: 1 fish (355032). 
Hopson, Dr. Clifford A.: 18 petrology samples (353163). 
Horn, Edith: a fossil shark's tooth (352751). 
Horodski, Dr. Robert: 8 fossils (352144). 
Howden, Dr. Henry: 756 beetles (355233). 
Hubbard, Dr. Fred: 17 charnockitic rocks (353139). 
Hueber, Dr. Francis M.: 1 r.mber (345515). 
Hulings, Dr. Neil C. : 200 marine mollusks (351574). 
Hutchings, Dr. Pat: 17 worms (351554). 
Hyatt, Dr. John A.: 215 butterflies (355881). 
Hyne, Mr. & Mrs. Frank: a collection of 7 sharks (352568). 
Ingelson, Allan: 4 minerals (354504). 
Inoue, Dr. Hiroshi: 98 small moths (354258). 
Jefferies, Dr. William B.: 128 crustaceans (351134). 
Jensen, Gregory C. : 7 caridean shrimps (351360). 
Jimenez, Adolfo M. : 12 plants (347518). 
Jimenez A., Dr. Jose de Js.: 9 plants (349110, 351451). 
Johnson, Dr. J. G.: 132 brachiopods (351440, 353229). 
Johnson, John W. : 10 moths (353036). 

Johnson, Scott: 94 marine mollusks (352112, 352502, 354503). 
Jones, Howard R. : 8 worms (332097). 
Jones, Dr. Robert H.: 840 biting midges (353030). 
Juliano, Dr. Steve: 72 ground beetles (353038). 
Jump, Danny: 806 insects (354845). 
Kadolsky, Dietrich: 850 marine mollusks (347717). 
Kahn, Walter: 1 mineral (351598, exchange). 



574 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Kaicher, Mrs. Sally D. : 1 marine mollusk (354579). 

Kalman, Mrs. Marie Dickey: 2 skulls (355223). 

Kaufmann, James: 4 minerals (350609). 

Kaulbars, M.: 6 tiger beetles (355656). 

Kawakatsu, Dr. Masamaru: 1 worm (350896). 

Kennedy, Dr. Victor 5.: 20 freshwater mollusks (351671). 

Kensley, Dr. Brian: 22 fishes (352411); 13 worms (355526). 

Kienle, Richard and Molly: 2 volcanology samples (353155). 

Kirchner, R. F. : 4 stoneflies and 4 caddisflies (354846). 

Kistler, Alfred: 4,313 beetles (355883). 

Kistner, Dr. David H.: 790 rove beetles (353091). 

Knight, Dr. Harry M. (Deceased): 91,208 insects (340204). 

Knight, Kenneth R.: 1,631 butterflies (353060). 

Knisley, Dr. C. Barry: 2 insects (353065). 

Knudsen, Dr. Jens W. : 12 ground beetles (354251). 

Knudson, Dr. Edward C: 12 small moths (355882). 

Kohn, Dr. Alan J.: 14 marine mollusks (353999). 

Kolic, John: 3 minerals (352315). 

Kondratieff, Dr. Boris C: 2 stoneflies and 3 dragonflies (353068, 353075). 

Krafft, Dr. Maurice: 1 volcanic sample (353126). 

Kretzler, Dr. Jon E.: 11 crustaceans (354697). 

Krishnaswami, Dr. S.: 9 samples of pumice and dome rocks (353157). 

Kristensen, Dr. Reinhardt: 19 worms (352136, 352139). 

Kristoffersson, Torgny: 5 minerals (352318, 352497). 

Krutak, Dr. Paul R.: 30 ostracodes (353191). 

Kudenov, Dr. Jerry D.: 2 worms (351266). 

Kues, Dr. Barry S.: 1 dinosaur skull fragment (351821). 

Kuntz, Pierre: a collection of fossil reptiles and bird egg (355590). 

Kyte, Michael A.: 2 echinoderms (351258). 

Lake, Robert: 14 miscellaneous butterflies (354263). 

Lamar, William W.: 1 snake (350405). 

La Marca, Enrique: 32 frogs (351799). 

Land, Mr. & Mrs. L. K.: 1 mineral (354439). 

Lanoie, Dr. Leo O. : 1 squirrel and 1 grass mouse (350027). 

Lawson, Dale: 1 worm (353211). 

Levin, Mr. & Mrs. George C: 2 opals (354241). 

Lindberg, Dr. David R.: 5 mollusks (351443). 

Little, Dr. Elbert L., Jr.: 875 tree species (353387). 

Locy, Steve: 5 worms (355141). 

Loeblich, Dr. & Mrs. (A. R. Loeblich and H. Tappan) : 48 fossils (355547). 

Long, Charlene: 1 worm (354560). 

Louton, Dr. & Mrs. J. A.: 865 miscellaneous insects (353090). 

Lovesy, Richard 5.: 3 fossil whale and turtle bones (354111). 

Lurvey, Edith: 1 plant (346222). 

Macintosh, Mrs. Ann: cast of skulls and skull parts and a cast of an occiput 

(353028). 
Maciolek, Nancy J.: 11 worms (351359). 
Mackie, Dr. A. 5. Y.: 14 worms (355487). 
MacQuitty, Miranda: 10 worms (352138). 
Maggetti, Dr. M. : 47 orbicular gabbro samples (353137). 
Maier, Bruce: 1 mineral (352963). 
Maier, Dr. Kenneth J.: 1 pearl pendant necklace with diamonds, 1 pair of 

pearl and diamond earrings (350894, 352499). 
Maldonado Capriles, Dr. J.: 3 plant bugs (355661). 
Manhoff, Milton: 1 mineral (352334). 
Manzitti, Robert: 50 fossiliferous rocks (355022). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 575 



Marshall, Sylvan M.: 1 mineral (351553). 
Mather, Bryant: 5 lacewings (354833). 

Mathiessen, Edward A. See also Mrs. Marie Dickey Kalman (355223). 
Mattlin, Dr. Rob: 5 mollusks (351965). 
McArdle, Dr. John: 5 assorted primates (350069). 
McDanal, Emory: 8 minerals (354726). 
McDowall, Marion: 8 enchinoderms (347800). 
Mclnnis, Mrs. Debora. See also Michael Mclnnis (355226). 
Mclnnis, Michael: 1 butterfly (355226). 
Mcintosh, Dr. George: 22 fossils (352826). 
McKinney, Dr. F. K.: 6 bryozoans (352562). 
McPherson, Dr. J. E.: 1 stink bug (355654). 
Melrose, John C. : 20 minerals (354591). 
Mercando, Dr. Neil A.: 4 worms (351263). 
Merlino, Dr. Stefano: 2 minerals (351669). 
Meruane, Z. Jaime: 1 crustacean (352786). 
Metzler, Eric H. : 282 moths (353084, 354838). 
Middlekauff, Dr. Woodrow W. : 710 sawfly larvae (353097). 
Miller, Dr. Scott: 638 miscellaneous insects (353093, 353096). 
Miller, Dr. Walter B.: 3 land mollusks (353998). 
Minette, Jim: 3 minerals (354691). 
Mitchell, Dr. Myron: 6 alcoholic worms (352146). 
Morejohn, Dr. G. Victor: a fossil cast (352695). 
Moron, Dr. Karen M.: 53 cretaceous slides (351701). 
Morse, Dr. John C: 352 caddisflies (353046). 
Morton, Professor Brian: 25 mollusks (352793). 
Murphy, Dr. Don G.: 27 worms (354853). 
Murphy, Honora: 340 plants (352669). 

Myrick, Albert C., Jr.: a collection of 1,600 fossil plant, vertebrate, and in- 
vertebrate remains (355589). 
Navarro, Loida T. : 8 crustaceans (352790). 
Neboiss, Dr. A.: 8 burrowing bugs (354897). 
Neill, Dr. G. B.: 4 adult and larvae insects (355662). 
Nelson, Dr. Gayle H. : 1 metallic wood boring beetle (355232). 
Nichols, Dr. J. A.: 24 worm slides (351590). 
Norden, Arnold: 6 mollusks (337163). 
Norrocky, Jim: 2 crayfishes (352135). 
Nosek, Eng. J.: 50 insect slides (354849). 
Oliver, Dr. D. R.: 1 midge slide (353049). 
Olson, Sheryn: 8 assorted small mammals (350057). 
Onderdonk, Dr. John A., Jr.: a fossil seal metatarsal (354107). 
O'Neal, William: a piece of fossil walrus tusk and a toe bone (354171). 
Orlandi, Dr. Paolo. See also Dr. Stefano Merlino: (351669). 
Ortt, Marilyn: 6 ferns (354079). 
Ossian, Dr. Clair R. : 83 fossil slides (353532). 
Owens, Dr. Charles H.: 1 least weasel (353617). 
Park, Mrs. Janet: 1 volcanic ash sample (353132). 
Peisley, Vincent: 12 minerals (354585). 
Pendergrast, Jim: a fossil dugong sternum (355509). 
Penny, Dr. Norman D.: 1 lacewing (353052). 
Perkins, Dr. Philip D. : 1,217 aquatic insects (354835). 
Perkins, Thomas: 61 worm slides (354581). 
Perrault, Dr. Guy: 1 mineral (352317). 
Persons, W. R.: 1 sapphire (351321). 

Pessagno, Dr. Emile A., Jr.: 36 mesozoic fossils (351611). 
Petit, Richard E.: 2 mollusks (351375). 



576 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Petuch, Dr. Edward J.: 6,000 mollusks (340672); 22 gastropods (351441, 

354201). 
Phelps, William H., Jr.: 1 bird skin (353305, exchange). 
Philip, Dr. Kenelm W.: 3 alpine butterflies (354834). 
Pieters, 5.: 11 minerals (350878, 351297, 353171). 
Piggott, Audrey: 3 ferns (352904). 
Pilcher, Keith R.: 2 minerals (354589). 

Pinch, William W.: 52 minerals (351597, 354599, exchanges). 
Platonova, Dr. T.: 2 worm slides (352291). 
Pletsch, Dr. Donald J.: 35 fishes (315976). 
Pohwat, Paul: 1 mineral (354582). 
Poland, Phil: 4,836 small mollusks (351376). 
Pope, Dr. R. D.: 2 beetles (352939). 

Potter, Mr. and Mrs. George A.: 5 fossil mammal bones (354109). 
Powell, Charles L., Ill: 200 mollusks (354569). 
Powell, Dr. Jerry A.: 47 moths (354316). 
Prado, Manoel de Almeida: 1 mineral (350468). 
Pregill, Gregory K. : 10 juvenile toads (351743, exchange). 
Radovsky, Dr. F. J.: 1 burrowing bug (354841). 
Rahn, Russell A.: 1,886 miscellaneous insects (353032, 353053, 354230, 354249, 

354254, 354842). 
Rainer, Sebastian F. : 1 worm (354468). 
Rasch, Arthur A.: 1 mineral (350442). 
Ravdin, Nino G.: 107 moths (353079). 
Raynsford, Anthony: 2 plants (351200, 351854). 
Redford, Kent: 10 mollusks (352501). 
Remaudiere, Dr. G.: 11 aphid slides (353054). 
Reynolds, Dr. C. Lentz, Jr.: 1 mineral (350882). 
Richardson, Dr. Joyce: 900 brachiopods (355254). 
Regby, Dr. J. Keith: 7 fossil sponges (352704). 
Rilling, Gerald: 1 snake (353755). 
Robertson, D. S.: 14 sponges (353189). 
Robinson, Dr. Paul: 63 glass-bearing rocks (353167). 
Rae, Dr. Pamela: 6 worms (355552). 
Rohr, Dr. David M.: 86 gastropods (350444). 
Rolfe, Dr. W. D. Ian: 32 fossil crustaceans (354524). 
Rolan, E.: 48 marine mollusks (352490). 
Rolston, Holmes, III: 1 plant (351205). 
Rolston, Dr. L. H.: 33 true bugs (355228). 
Ross, Charles A.: 1,468 reptiles and amphibians (342367); 1 turtle skeleton 

(351750). 
Ruckdeschel, Carol: 5 crustaceans (353832). 
Ruff, R. Eugene: 16 worms (354813). 
Sabrosky, Dr. Curtis W. : 267 flies (353062). 

Sage, Dr. Richard D.: 761 land and freshwater mollusks (347003). 
Sala, Frank P.: 1,189 moths and butterflies (353031). 
Salvat, Dr. B.: 2 mollusks (354328, exchange). 
Sanders, Dr. Ian: 2 petrology and volcanology samples (353143). 
Saunders, Jan: 11 plants (346173). 
Sato, Professor Mosataka: 10 insects (353058). 
Savitsky, Alan H. : 4 reptiles and amphibians (351749). 
Sawyer, Dr. Thomas K. : 236 worms (349546). 
Sayar, Dr. C: 50 fossil and rock samples (354285). 
Scarboro, Mrs. Gloria: 75 mollusks (351600). 
Scarbrough, Don R.: 1 mineral (354506). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 577 



Schaefermeyer, Fred: 3 minerals (352498). 

Schaffner, Dr. Joseph C: 17 plant bugs (353063). 

Schaller, Dr. G.: 16 bamboos (350282). 

Schiefer, Lt. Col. Bernard A.: 2,862 miscellaneous insects (354272). 

Schmetzer, Dr. Karl: 1 mineral (352550). 

Schneider, Vincent P.: a collection of 612 fossil fish, turtle, bird, whale, seal, 

mammal and reptile remains (351430, 352561, 352824). 
Schneider, Mrs. Vincent P. See also Vincent P. Schneider (352824). 
Schultz, Dr. George A.: 56 crustaceans (353017, 354743). 
Schuster, R. O.: 1 beetle (354548). 
Scott, Dr. David B.: 20 fossils (355135). 
Scott, Dr. R. M.: 1 fossil coral (355512). 
Scott, Randy: a collection of 18 fossil crab fingers, fish, turtle, bird, whale, 

seal, and marine-mammal remains (352560, 355503). 
Seapey, Dr. Roger: 12 mollusks (352079). 
Sefoyianes, Emanoel: 1 fish (353886). 
Segeler, Curt: 2 minerals (350880). 

Shadish, Dr. and Mrs. William R., family of: 2 pieces of fossil wood (355695). 
Shipp, Mrs. Eve: 200 shells (354568). 
Shrader, Ron: a fossil dugong vertebra (355507). 
Siddons, Derek C. : a fossil skull and associated vertebrae (354176). 
Sigle, Mr. and Mrs. Roy: 2 amethyst (349783). 
Simons, Dr. Mark: 13 butterflies (353082, exchange). 
Sladen, William J. L. : 2 bird bones (352043). 
Smith, Allan: 1 fossile coral (352493). 
Smith, Dr. Judy Terry: 1,100 marine mollusks (351966). 
Sonier, Leonard: 8 faceted gems (351588). 
Stagnaro, Sig. Angelo: 1 mineral (352705). 
Starnes, Dr. Wayne C: 1 fish (350192). 

Steadman, Dr. David W.: 14 reptiles and amphibians (351781). 
Steiner, Warren E.: 12 crustaceans (352957); 6,014 miscellaneous insects and 

arthropods (353083, 353094, 354271). 
Stephan, Karl: 3 wrinkled bark beetles (355235). 
Stewart, Robert H., and Mrs. Jay: 27 minerals (353563). 
Stinchcomb, B. L.: 4 fossils (355617). 

Stoddard, Dr. Edward: 2 rock samples with Zn-bearing spinel (353142). 
Stone, Francine L. : 20 butterflies (353050). 
Stratton, Vernon: 56 minerals (352488, 352500, 354578). 
Swindell, Clyde: 6 fossil seal and walrus remains (354173). 
Tallman, Dr. Dan: 1 bird skin (351976). 
Tanke, Darren: 1 badger (350065). 

Tankington, Horace: 2 fossil peccary femoras (351431). 
Tarp, Thomas Gloerfelt: 18 fishes (352392). 
Taylor, Calvin: 2 fossils (354110). 
Taylor, Dr. John L. : 50 worms (351378). 

Taylor, Dr. Paul: 2,141 marine, land and freshwater mollusks (355564). 
Templeton, Robert D. See also Robert L. Astleford (348037). 
Tepper, Dr. David: 1 oval-cut quartz (352965). 
Thomas, James: 2 fossil sponge fragments (352817). 
Thomas, Ralph: 2 minerals (350819). 
Thompson, Dr. Geoff: 1 palagonite sample (353125). 
Tommasi, Professor Luiz R.: 17 brachiopods (354867, exchange). 
Topor, Mike: 269 crinoids (352953). 
Troubridge, James T. : 1 butterfly (353089). 
Tumturk, Ismet: 48 marine mollusks (354580). 



578 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Turner, Mrs. Milton: 1 quartz carved bowl and 1 jade carved bowl (351551). 

Turner, Dr. Ruth D.: 50 worms (353559). 

Uehlinger, Professor E. A.: 2 human skeletons (353029). 

Upchurch, Dr. Garland R., Jr.: 600 fossil plants (355134). 

Van den Hoven, W.: 16 bird skeletons (349935, exchange). 

Van der Vecht, Dr. J.: 2 wasps (353074). 

Van Deventer, Corrie: 2 minerals (354602). 

Van Laer, Christian: 4 zircon with quartz (351322). 

Van Scriver, Brad: 6 minerals (348744). 

Velde, Dr. Danielle: 1 volcanc sample (351952, exchange). 

Vink, D. L. N.: 1 mollusk (354502). 

Vokes, Drs. Harold and Emily: 13 fossil sponges and 1 sponge slide (352143). 

Voris, Dr. Harold K. See also Dr. William B. Jefferies (351134). 

VVaisman, Dave: 1 quartz (352523, exchange). 

Waldbauer, Dr. Gilbert P.: 349 flower flies (353514, 354850). 

Walker, Dr. Francis S.: 13 minerals (351608). 

Walker, William A.: 3 porpoises and 1 whale dolphin (350070). 

Wallace, Dr. J. Bruce: 17 caddisflies (355664). 

Ward, Don: a fossil dugong vertebra (355508). 

Ward, Larry B.: a fossil cetacean tooth (354168). 

Warner, Dr. William B.: 5 ground beetles (352736). 

Watters, John L., Jr.: a fossil seal jaw with 2 postcanine teeth (352566). 

Weber, Mrs. Charles H.: 7 minerals (350933, 354700). 

Weible, Lt. Gen. and Mrs. Walter L.: a complete suit of Japanese samurai 

armor with storage box and exhibit stand (353026). 
Weinberg, Rolf: 1 mineral (352964). 
Weiss, Gerald: 17 reptiles and amphibians (347060). 
WeUington, Dr. Gerald M.: 15 marine mollusks (352078). 
West, Forest L., Jr.: 22 marine mollusks (354235). 
Westcott, Dr. Richard L.: 1 metallic wood-boring beetle (354836). 
Whitaker, J. David: 1 mollusk (351967). 
Wilke, Dr. Hans-Jurgen: 1 mineral (353021). 
Wilson, Jonathan H.: 1 fox squirrel (350083). 
Win, U Kyi: 6 worms (351934). 
Winters, Mrs. Charles Ernest: 3 quartzes (354704). 

Wittlake, Dr. Eugene B.: 48 fossil mosses and a gymnosperm (355021). 
Wood, Dr. D. A.: 11 lava samples (353141). 
Woodard, Bryan: 1 crustacean (353552). 
Woodruff, Dr. Robert E. : 57 beetles (353573). 
Wright, Eugenia I.: 1,071 mollusks (348868). 
Wygodzinsky, Dr. Pedro: 50 black flies (354832). 
Yamada, Dr. Sylvia B.: 50 mollusks (352111). 
Yamane, Dr. Seiki: 6 insects (354837). 
Young, Dr. Allen M.: 1 squash bug (355231). 
Young, Dr. Frank N.: 549 beetles (353037, 353088). 
Yount, Victor: 3 minerals (351607). 
Zarra, Larry: 4 fossils (352693). 
Zarucchi, Dr. James L.: 109 plants (354372). 
Zea, S., Sven: 5 echinoderm specs (351408). 
Zeller, Dr. Edward J.: 2 faceted gems (351571). 
Zibrowius, Dr. Helmut: 200 worms, 24 echinoderms (352069); 20 corals 

(352548). 
Zuhl, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert A.: 5 pieces of polished petrified wood (354779). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 579 



NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 



Donors of Financial Support 

Mr. Phillip A. DuSault 
Mrs. Elizabeth P. Guest 

Grants 

American Association of Zoo 
Veterinarians 

Frankfurt Zoological Society 

Friends of the National Zoo (Funds 
earned by FONZ according to pro- 
visions of public service under 
contract to Smithsonian) 

National Geographic Society 



Mrs. Mary Scott Guest 



National Science Foundation 

New York Zoological Society 

The Harkness Fellowships 

World WildHfe Fund 

World Wildlife Fund — International 
Union for the Conservation of 
Nature and Natural Resources 



SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 
Mr. Seth G. Atwood: Tektronix Model 2236 oscilloscope. 



SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 
Donors of Financial Support 

ALTERNATIVES TO DESTRUCTION PROGRAM 



W. Alton Jones Foundation 
International Foundation 



Print, the Giant Panda, from 
Endangered Species 
portfolio by Andy Warhol 



fellowship/assistantship program 

Exxon Corporation 
Citibank N.A. (Panama) 



Panama Kodak Companies 
Petroterminal de Panama, S.A. 



THE ROBERT E. SILBERGLIED MEMORIAL FUND 



Mary Batten 

Martin D. and Ronni F. Begleiter 

Frances S. Chew 



Diane W. Davidson 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Kimerling 

Jason Weintraub 



HISTORY AND ART 

ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM 

Howard Felder: Master's diploma of former slave and educator Anna Julia 
Haywood Cooper (1858?-1964), awarded by Oberlin College in 1885. 

Cecilia Rothman: porcelain figure of the former slave, abolitionist, suffragette 
Sojourner Truth (1797?-1883), commissioned by Helen B. Lanze and created 
by San Francisco doll artist Cecilia Rothman. 

Daniel Traub: Presidential appointment papers of Robert Herberton Terrell 
(1859-1925), the first black municipal judge in the District of Columbia. 
The papers are signed by Theodore Roosevelt, January 1, 1906; William 
Howard Taft, January 11, 1910; and Woodrow Wilson, April 24, 1918. 



580 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART 



Donors of Financial Support 

$10,000 AND ABOVE 

The Brown Foundation 

Mrs. W. Rodman Fay 

Robert Wood Johnson, Jr. Charitable 

Trust 
The Henry Luce Foundation 

$5,000 AND ABOVE 

Anonymous 

Miss Caroline R. Alexander 

Atlantic Richfield Foundation 

Viola E. Bray Charitable Trust 

Mr. and Mrs. Eli Broad 

Mr. and Mrs. George R. Brown 

Mr. Robert J. Cruikshank 

Mr. and Mrs. Harold Farb 

Mrs. Walter B. Ford II 

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Glassell 

Mrs. Emma Swan Hall 

Honorable and Mrs. Roy H. Hofheinz 

Mrs. Henry Clyde Johnson 

Mr. Jack Josey 

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall 

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney 

Mr. and Mrs. Irvin A. Levy 

$1,000 AND ABOVE 

Mrs. Josephine Abercrombie 

The Ahmanson Foundation 

Mr. Arthur G. Altschul 

Mr. Don Baker 

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin A. Bergman 

Mrs. Carol Bohannon 

Mr. Slade Brown 

Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Coneway 

Denton A. Cooley Foundation 

Mr. James C. Cooper 

Mr. Warren Coville 

Dr. and Mrs. E. L. Grain, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Davis 

Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan Day 

Mrs. John de Menil 

Mrs. Peggy de Salle 

Mr. Pat Diclements 

Mr. Les Eckert 

Mr. and Mrs. Joel S. Ehrenkranz 

Mr. Billy Francis 

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Goldberg 

Mr. Robert H. Gries 

Mr. Gary Hardison 

Mr. Gerald D. Hines 



Michigan Council for the Arts 
Mrs. Nancy B. Negley 
Mr. A. Alfred Taubman 
Warner Communications 
Weyerhaeuser Foundation 



Mr. and Mrs. Howard W. Lipman 

Mr. and Mrs. Meredith Long 

Mary E. McCarthy 

Mrs. Elizabeth H. Maddux 

Mr. and Mrs. Harris Masterson 

Mrs. William L. Mitchell 

Mrs. Anne W. Phillips 

Mr. Nat Rogers 

The Mark Rothko Foundation 

Mr. and Mrs. Fayez Sarofim 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro 

The John Sloan Memorial Foundation 

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Towning 

Mrs. Esteban Vicente 

Mr. Herbert C. Wells 

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson 

Harry Winston 



Mr. and Mrs. Don D. Jordan 

Mr. Richard Keating 

Mr. Kep Keplinger 

Dr. and Mrs. Charles Kessler 

Mr. and Mrs. Rollin King 

Mrs. Marilyn Lubetkin 

Mr. and Mrs. Sanford E. McCormick 

Mrs. Maria Z. McRae 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manney 

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Marks 

Mr. James Maroney 

Mr. and Mrs. Tom F. Marsh 

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas B. Marshall, 

Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Maynard, Jr. 
Mr. Alexander R. Mehran 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Merriam 
Michigan Foundation for the Arts 
Mr. and Mrs. Earl D. Mitchell 
Mr. George Murray 
Mrs. Muriel Kallis Newman 
Mrs. Laurie O'Connell 
Mr. and Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer 
Mrs. George Peterkin 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 581 



Ms. Elyse Robbins 

Mr. and Mrs. Corbin J. Robertson 

Mrs. John Rosekrans, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Rubin 

Ms. Arlene Schnitzer 

Seattle Art Museum 



Mr. and Mrs. George C. Seybolt 

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth 

Mrs. Maury L. Spanier 

Dr. and Mrs. Anthony W. Viola 

Nina A. Werblow Charitable Trust 

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Westheimer 



$500 AND ABOVE 

Dr. Lourdes V. Andaya 

Mrs. Lucille B. Askin 

Mrs. Norma Baumgold 

Mrs. Alvin L. Blume 

Dr. and Mrs. Irving F. Burton 

Mrs. Robert Johns Clark 

Mr. and Mrs. S. Z. Cohen 

Mrs. J. Rorick Cravens 

Mrs. Janice P. Daniel 

Mrs. Lucille Daum 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Doerer 

Mr. and Mrs. Alex J. Etkin 

Mrs. Evelyn H. Fellows 

Mrs. George R. Fink 

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence A. 

Fleischman 
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Ford 
Mrs. Helena Fraser 
Miss Elizabeth Fuller 
Mr. and Mrs. Aron S. Gordon 
Mrs. Mason L. Gordon 
Dr. Armand Hammer 
Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison, Jr. 
Mrs. Tola S. Haverstick 
Mr. John L. Jones 
Mrs. Robert L. Kemper 
Mr. Tibor Kerekes, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod 
Mr. Raymond J. Learsy 
Mr. Alan D. Levy 
Mrs. Janet Cook Loeb 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward McGrath 
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander McLanahan 



Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. McNeil, Jr. 

Mrs. Maria P. McPhail 

Mr. Richard H. Manoogian 

Mr. and Mrs. William A. Marsteller 

Mrs. Hope Ridings Miller 

Mrs. Janice Miller 

Mobil Foundation 

Mr. and Mrs. Irving Nusbaum 

Mr. and Mrs. Peter O'Donnell 

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Oroshnik 

Mrs. Cornelia Watts Perry 

Mrs. Shirley Polykoff 

Mrs. Dorothy Rautbord 

Mr. David Rockefeller, Jr. 

Mrs. John D. Rockefeller III 

Mrs. Ednah Root 

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey R. Roth 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Russell, Jr. 

Mrs. Joan W. Saltzstein 

Michael E. Schultz 

Mr. and Mrs. Dudley C. Sharp 

Dr. and Mrs. Robert Silver 

Mrs. J. Scott Smart 

Mr. Joel Spira 

Mr. J. T. Trotter 

Mr. and Mrs. William Warner 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Weinstein 

Mrs. Marcia Simon Weisman 

Mr. and Mrs. Victor W. Wertz 

Mr. Henry Wade White 

Mr. Marion J. Wise, Jr. 

Mr. David S. Wolff 

Mr. and Mrs. Warren R. Woodward 



$250 AND ABOVE 

Mr. and Mrs. Stanford Alexander 
Mrs. Edward H. Andrews 
Mr. and Mrs. Louis C. Baker 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry de Forest 

Baldwin 
Mr. W. N. Banks 
Mrs. Daniel N. Belin 
Mr. and Mrs. Philip I. Berman 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Biggs 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Bortz, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jay Bowman 



Mr. and Mrs. Edwin R. Brown 

Mr. and Mrs. Howard B. Camden 

Carter Hawley Hale Stores 

Chapellier Galleries 

Mrs. Lammot duPont Copeland 

Dr. Milton Covensky 

Mr. Craig F. Cullinan, Jr. 

Mr. J. S. Cullinan II 

Mrs. Susan L. Cullman 

Mrs. Elizabeth de Cuevas 

John Deere Foundation 



582 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Mrs. J. P. Delmas 

Mr. C. Douglas Dillon 

Mr. and Mrs. Neil T. Haslett 

Mr. and Mrs. Frank M. Hicks 

Mrs. Augusta Hoiles 

Mr. William J. Hokin 

Mr. and Mrs. James Humphrey III 

IBM Corporation 

Dr. and Mrs. David Jacknow 

Mrs. Carter Johnson 

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Winslow Jones 

Mr. and Mrs. Saul Kalt 

Mr. Maxwell E. Katzen 

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Katzman 

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Kaufman 

Ms. Karen A. Kelsey 

Mr. and Mrs. Denny Kempner 

Kennedy Galleries 

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Klein 

Mr. and Mrs. Nat Korash 

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Lauder 

Dr. and Mrs. I. H. Leopold 

Mr. and Mrs. Barney A. Ebsworth 

Mr. Sanford B. Ehrenkranz 

Mrs. George M. Endicott 

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Eyberg 

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Feder 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter W. Fisher 

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Fraad 

Mrs. Irma L. Fraad 

Mrs. Eleanor K. Freed 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter J. Fried 

Mr. and Mrs. Ben H. Fuller 

Mr. and Mrs. Julian Ganz, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Yale Ginsberg 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Goldstein 

Mr. William T. Gossett 

Mrs. P. Thomas Green 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Greenbaum 

Mr. and Mrs. William Greenwalt 

Ms. Elyse Grinstein 

Mrs. F. V. Grunbaum 

Mr. and Mrs. Melville W. Hall 

Dr. Susan E. Harold 

Mrs. Janice H. Levine 

Mr. and Mrs. Harold O. Love 

Mrs. E. A. McCullough 

Mrs. Eugene McDermott 

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy 

Mr. C. Richard McGrath 

Mr. and Mrs. John D. Mack 

Mrs. Patricia B. McMahon 

Mrs. Robert Magowan 

Mr. and Mrs. Whitfield H. Marshall 

Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Maveety 



Maxwell Galleries 

Dr. and Mrs. Matthew S. Mickiewicz 

Mr. and Dr. Napoleonas Miskinis 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert N. Murray 

Charles Namm 

Mrs. Annalee G. Newman 

Mr. and Mrs. Roy O'Connor 

Mrs. Henry O'Neil 

Mrs. Harris K. Oppenheimer 

Mrs. Mary T. Osborn 

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Pearlman 

Ms. Cynthia H. Polsky 

Mr. and Mrs. John Rakolta, Jr. 

Ms. Donna K. Rautbord 

Mrs. Dana Raymond 

Mrs. Elizabeth Beach Rea 

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin Reder 

Mrs. Sylvia Robins 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob 

Elly Rosenthal 

Mr. Lewis J. Sappington 

Dr. Ivan Schatten 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Scheuer 

Mr. and Mrs. Abbott K. Schlain 

Mark Schlesinger 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Schoenith 

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas A. Schubot 

Mr. and Mrs. Steven A. Seiden 

Mrs. Carl L. Seiden 

Ethlyne J. Seligman 

Mr. Stephen Sloan 

Mrs. R. E. Smith 

Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Spiegel 

State Street Bank and Trust Company 

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Stein 

Mr. and Mrs. Mark C. Stevens 

Mr. and Mrs. Emanuel M. Sulkes 

Mr. and Mrs. David J. Supino 

Mr. and Mrs. Albert Susman 

Mr. and Mrs. Harold Tanner 

Mr. Charles Tapley 

Mrs. William C. Tost 

Mrs. Harold Uris 

Mrs. Joseph A. Vance, Jr. 

Mrs. Hudson D. Walker 

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Wallstein 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. M. Warburg 

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Wasserman 

Mr. John West 

Mrs. Dave Williams 

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony M. Wilson 

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Wojtalik 

Mr. and Mrs. Leroy H. Wulfmeier III 

Mr. and Mrs. Roy Zurkowski 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 583 



$100 AND ABOVE 

Mrs. Richard F. Alden 

Mrs. Frederick Alger 

Mr. and Mrs. Hale R. Allen 

Mrs. John E. Anderson 

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher C. Angell 

Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Applewhite 

Mrs. Patsy Arcidiacono 

Mr. and Mrs. George Arden 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Armstrong 

Mrs. Anna Bing Arnold 

Mr. and Mrs. Leslie H. Arps 

Dr. James E. Austin 

Mrs. R. Stanton Avery 

Mrs. Waldo Avery 

Mrs. Samuel Ayres III 

Ms. Linda Bade 

Mr. and Mrs. Eliot Bailen 

Mr. T. R. Baird 

Mr. Richard Brown Baker 

Dr. and Mrs. James Bannon 

Mr. Morton Barak 

Mrs. Norman Barker, Jr. 

Ms. Joyce Barnes 

Mr. and Mrs. J. Addison Bartush 

Franklin L. Bass 

Miss Harriet Bath 

Mr. and Mrs. Bogdan Baynert 

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Beal 

Mr. Gifford R. Beal 

Ms. Toni Beauchamp 

Mr. and Mrs. Bernhard G. Bechhoefer 

Walter H. Beebe 

Mrs. Lionel Bell 

Mr. and Mrs. Mack Beltaire 

Dr. and Mrs. James Benedict 

Bry Benjamin 

Mr. and Mrs. W. Victor Benjamin 

Mrs. James A. Beresford 

Mrs. Marion W. Berger 

Mr. John Berggruen 

Mr. Sidney L. Bergin 

Mrs. Edna S. Beron 

Mr. and Mrs. Max N. Berry 

Mr. and Mrs. Livingston L. Biddle, Jr. 

Mrs. Sidney Biddle 

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Bigar 

Mrs. Peter S. Bing 

Mrs. Emil Bisttram 

Mr. and Mrs. H. Glenn Bixby 

Mrs. Polly Blakeley 

Richard F. Blanchard 

Mr. and Mrs. Chet Blanton 

Mrs. Walter Blenk 

Miss Florence M. Blume 



Mr. and Mrs. John M. Booth 

Mr. Steven J. Borick 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Borman 

Mr. E. C. Bovey 

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Bradley 

Liane Beebe Brent 

Dr. Philip L. Brewer 

Dr. and Mrs. William J. Briggs 

Mr. and Mrs. David R. C. Brown 

Mr. Peter A. Brown 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Bruckman 

Dr. and Mrs. Michael Bucciero 

Mrs. Elizabeth Buckley 

Mrs. Lawrence Buell, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. John Lee Bunce 

Mrs. Gene Burton 

Mrs. Helen R. Busch 

Mr. and Mrs. Jack E. Butler 

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Cahners 

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Caldwell 

Mr. Alan L. Cameros 

Mrs. Edward L. Carter 

Dr. and Mrs. Sidney F. Chapin 

Mr. David Chapman 

Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan H. Churchill 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Clark 

Mrs. James H. Clements 

Amy S. Cohen 

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph L. Cohen 

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph F. Colin 

Mrs. Theodore G. Congdon 

Mr. and Mrs. Ransom Cook 

Mrs. Robert Coryell 

Mrs. Jean C. Cott 

Barbara T. Cowan 

Mr. Gardner Cowles 

Mrs. Earle E. Crandall 

Mr. and Mrs. Bert Cremers 

Dr. and Mrs. Burrill B. Crohn 

Dr. and Mrs. Cosme Cruz 

Mr. Michael Cullinan 

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Dabney 

Mr. and Mrs. William D. Dahling 

Mrs. Chester Dale 

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis B. Daniels 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Danziger 

Miss Bernice W. Davidson 

Mrs. Mary M. Davis 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Day 

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley R. Day 

Antal P. de Bekessy 

Dr. and Mrs. Francis de Marneffe 

Mrs. Corwin D. Denney 

Mr. and Mrs. Martin Diamond 



584 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Mr. and Mrs. Paul Dietz 

Mr. Rene di Rosa 

Dr. M. Jan Dray 

Mrs. Lincoln Dryden 

Mrs. Louisa C. Duemling 

Mr. Lawrence F. Du Mouchelle 

Mr. and Mrs. Saul H. Dunitz 

Mr. and Mrs. Larry Dunlap 

Dr. John H. Dvyer 

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Earle 

Sir James and Lady Easton 

Mrs. Beatrice Elkin 

Mrs. Robert F. Erburu 

Mr. and Mrs. Jimmy Ernst 

Mrs. Richard Evans II 

Mrs. Irving X. Fabrikant 

Mr. Peter M. Fairbanks 

Mrs. Gary Familian 

Mrs. Hortense F. Feldblum 

Mrs. John H. Ferguson 

Mrs. Alvin M. Ferst, Jr. 

Fischbach Gallery 

Mrs. E. G. Fischer 

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred J. Fisher III 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Fisher 

Mr. George Hooper Fitch 

Mrs. Patricia Kane Flach 

Mrs. Mortimer Fleishhacker, Jr. 

Mrs. Joan H. Fleming 

Mrs. Frank W. Ford, Jr. 

Mrs. Marie Denise Fouquet 

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Frank 

Kathy G. Frank 

Mrs. Stanley Frank 

Mr. and Mrs. Ivan Frankel 

Dr. and Mrs. J. B. Freedman 

Mrs. John S. French 

Mr. and Mrs. B. H. Friedman 

Mrs. K. Evan Friedman 

Mrs. F. Daniel Frost 

Frederick J. Fuller, Jr. 

Mr. Sheldon Fuller 

Mr. and Mrs. Alan K. Gage 

Mr. and Mrs. Kennedy Galpin 

David A. Gardner 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Gargiulo 

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Germack, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty 

James Howard Gibbons 

Mrs. Ross Gilbert 

Mr. Howard Gilman 

Mrs. Sylvia Gilman 

Mrs. Bernard F. Gimbel 

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Glen 

Mr. and Mrs. Seth M. Glickenhaus 



Judith Whitney Godwin 

Dr. and Mrs. Donald Golden 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard S. Golden 

Mr. and Mrs. Abner Goldstone 

Mrs. John V. Good 

Mrs. James L. Goodwin 

Mr. Stuart Gorelick 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Goss II 

Mr. Frederic J. Graber 

Mr. Charles M. Grace 

Mr. Bernard S. Green 

Mrs. Arthur Greenberg 

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Greenberg 

Dr. and Mrs. Frank J. Greene 

Lancaster Greene 

Mr. and Mrs. John Griffin 

Mr. Harold E. Grove 

Mrs. Joseph Haddad 

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Y. Halperin 

Mrs. Samuel Hamburger 

Mrs. Robert Hamilton 

Mrs. David Handleman 

Mrs. Roy E. Hanson, Jr. 

Mr. Joseph Hardy 

Mr. David F. Harris 

Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison 

Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Hartmann 

John R. Hearst, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Heaton 

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Heller 

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Hennessey 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Henritzy 

Mr. Frederick D. Hill 

Mrs. Bernard Hirsch 

Dr. and Mrs. Paul Hirsch 

Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn 

Mrs. Oveta Gulp Hobby 

Mr. Lewis Hoffacker 

Mr. Stephen Horn II 

Mr. and Mrs. Gedale Bob Horowitz 

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz 

Mr. Thomas C. Howe 

Mr. and Mrs. William K. Howenstein 

Mr. and Mrs. Felix Hower 

Mrs. J. Stewart Hudson 

Mr. Frederick G. L. Huetwell 

Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Hulings 

Mrs. Anne D. Hull 

Mrs. Margot Hunt 

Mrs. Robert E. Hunter, Jr. 

Mrs. Ira J. Jackson 

Mr. and Mrs. Earl R. Jacobs 

Mr. and Mrs. Selden James 

Jeffrey Alan Gallery 

Ms. Regina B. Jensen 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 585 



Mr. and Mrs. George Frederick 

Jewett, Jr. 
Mrs. William E. Johnston 
Mr. Forrest Lowell Jones 
Mrs. Earle M. Jorgensen 
Maxwell Jospcy 
Mr. and Mrs. Albert Kabak 
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob M. Kaplan 
Joan Kaplan 
Mr. Bernard Karpel 
Mrs. Richard B. Kaufman 
Mrs. William Kaynor 
Mr. and Mrs. Martin A. Kellman 
Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr. 
Mr. William T. Kemper 
Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering 
Mrs. Dorothy R. Kidder 
Mrs. William Kieschnick 
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Kimmelman 
Mrs. Miriam Klein 
Mrs. Philip J. Koen 
Mr. and Mrs. David W. Kornblatt 
Miss Antoinette Kraushaar 
Mr. and Mrs. William Ku 
Mrs. Geraldine Kunstadter 
Mrs. Roger M. Kyes 
Mr. and Mrs. G. V. Lamont 
Mrs. W. Loeber Landau 
Mr. and Mrs. Alvin S. Lane 
Terese L. Lane 
Mrs. Richard E. Lang 
Mr. Carl E. Larson 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Lauve 
Mrs. Rodney M. Layton 
Mr. Rensselaer W. Lee 
Mrs. Harry Lenart 
Mrs. Fernand Leval 
Mr. Theodore R. Levey 
Mrs. Leonard Levine 
Mr. and Mrs. Irvin L. Levy 
Jean F. Levy 
Mr. Orme Lewis 
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis 
Dr. Marjorie Lewisohn 
Mrs. Ann Jones Light 
Mr. and Mrs. Morris Lipnik 
Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Lipson 
Mr. Carl D. Lobell 
Nancy F. Loeb 
Mrs. Renee Logan 
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Longe 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Longyear 
Mr. and Mrs. E. F. Loveland 
Mrs. Madeleine M. Low 
Mr. Henry Luce III 



Mr. and Mrs. George M. Luhn 

Jane B. Lynch 

Mr. and Mrs. Russell Lynes 

Mr. and Mrs. David Hunter McAlpin 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert McCabe 

Mr. Porter McCray 

Mrs. Nancy McDermott 

Mr. and Mrs. Gregg McDuffee 

Mr. James T. McKay 

Mrs. Hiram W. McKee 

Mr. Roderick A. McManigal 

Mrs. Robert F. Maguire III 

Mrs. Bert Burgess Malouf 

Mrs. Thomas Malouf 

Mrs. Fleur Manning 

Mrs. Bernard Marcus 

Mrs. Edward Marcus 

Mrs. James S. Marcus 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Marcus 

Dr. and Mrs. Jerome Mark 

Marlborough Gallery 

Mrs. Samuel Maslon 

William D. Mayer 

Mr. and Mrs. Philip H. Meltzer 

Drs. Paul and Laura Mesaros 

Mrs. Vaughan B. Meyer 

Mrs. Jane B. Meyerhoff 

Mr. Samuel Miller 

Mrs. Barbara B. Millhouse 

Mrs. Virginia S. Milner 

Mr. and Mrs. Irving J. Minett 

Mr. and Mrs. David Mirvish 

Mrs. Ralph Mishkin 

Mr. Edwin Lee Morrell 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Morris 

Mr. Peter Morris 

Dr. and Mrs. Hugh Mullan 

Mrs. David Murdock 

Mrs. Franklin D. Murphy 

Mr. and Mrs. Louis S. Myers 

Raymond D. Nasher Company 

Miss Emily Nathan 

Mrs. Louis Nathanson 

Mr. and Mrs. John U. Nef 

Mrs. William Negley 

Mr. and Mrs. Eldo S. Netto 

Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Neuberger 

Mr. Fred Nevill 

Mrs. James Neville 

Donald E. Newhouse 

Mr. John Nicholls, Jr. 

Mrs. Paul Nine 

Mrs. Dorothy S. Norman 

Mrs. Louise R. Noun 

Mrs. Nancy M. O'Boyle 



586 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Mr. and Mrs. Bertram L. O'Neill 

Mrs. Janice C. Oresman 

Mrs. Jane B. Owen 

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert H. Owens 

The Pace Gallery 

Mrs. Lynda Palevsky 

Dr. and Mrs. David B. Pall 

Mr. Richard C. Palmer 

Dr. and Mrs. Emanuel M. Papper 

Mrs. Nathaniel Paschall 

Mrs. Margaret Patch 

Mrs. Carl Pearl 

Mr. and Mrs. S. Barksdale Penick, Jr. 

Mrs. John Penido 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald A. Petrie 

Mr. Donald L. Petrulis 

Mr. and Mrs. James Phelan 

O. George Philipp 

Mr. and Mrs. Gifford Phillips 

Mr. and Mrs. Laughlin Phillips 

Mr. and Mrs. H. Lynn Pierson 

J. M. Pincus 

Mrs. Natalie R. Pion 

Ms. Rita McNamara Pleet 

Mr. and Mrs. Saul Poliak 

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Poplack 

Mr. William Postar 

Mr. and Mrs. Mayer P. Potamkin 

Mrs. Robert E. Power 

Mr. and Mrs. David Prager 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert O. Preusser 

Dr. and Mrs. A. Michael Prus 

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Pustilnik 

Mrs. John J. Quinn 

Mrs. Judith S. Randal 

Esther Rattner 

Mrs. James A. Rawley 

Dr. and Mrs. Thomas Rees 

Muriel Henle Reis 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Reynaert 

Mr. and Mrs. Edgar P. Richardson 

Mrs. Thomas C. Ridgeway, Jr. 

Dr. and Mrs. Harold Rifkin 

Mr. and Mrs. Chapin Riley 

Mrs Andrew C. Ritchie 

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Rivkin 

Mr. and Mrs. Lester Robbins 

Mr. David Rockefeller 

Mr. Alvin S. Romansky 

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Rose 

Mrs. Shirley S. Rosenberg 

Michelle Rosenfeld 

Felice T. Ross 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph R. Roth 

Mrs. Georgina Rothenberg 



Mrs. Alford P. Rudnick 

Mrs. Madeleine H. Russell 

Mrs. Ann McGovern Scheiner 

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Scheuer 

Mr. Herbert D. Schimmel 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Schoelkopf 

Mr. and Mrs. Harry H. Schnabel, Jr. 

Ed Flynn Schneider 

Mrs. Jo Anne Schneider 

Mr. and Mrs. Morton L. Scholnick 

Mr. Jacob Schulman 

Mr. and Mrs. Alan E. Schwartz 

Mrs. Samuel Schwartz 

Mrs. A. A. Seeligson, Jr. 

Mr. Walter Seid 

Mr. Melvin R. Seiden 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederic A. Sharf 

Marion M. Shaw 

Mr. and Mrs. Max Shaye 

Mrs. Allan Shelden III 

Mr. Peter L. Sheldon 

Mr. Peter N. Sherrill 

Robert J. Silton 

Sharon R. Simons 

Mrs. Miriam Siporin 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Slatkin 

Mr. and Mrs. George M. Slocum 

Mrs. Lawrence M. C. Smith 

Ms. Marilyn Smith 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Smith 

Mr. and Mrs. Howard Smits 

Mrs. Nathan Smooke 

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Solomon 

Richard Solomon 

Mr. Robert Sosnick 

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest P. Spear 

Mr. Jerry L Speyer 

Honorable and Mrs. Peter B. Spivak 

Mr. and Mrs. Dennis Stanfill 

Mr. Robert E. Steinberg 

Robert A. M. Stern 

Mr. and Mrs. William Stone 

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Stoneman 

Mrs. Leonard H. Straus 

Mr. and Mrs. Philip Straus 

Mrs. Robert D. Straus 

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Stroh 

Mrs. Henry W. Suydam, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Swig 

Tatsuno 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Taubman 

Mrs. Willard B. Taylor 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick A. Terry, Jr. 

Mr. Eugene Victor Thaw 

Mr. Paul Thiry 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 587 



Barbara S. Thomas 

Mrs. Barbara B. Toole 

Mr. John E. Toole 

Mr. and Mrs. Lynn A. Townsend 

Mr. and Mrs. Emmet Tracy 

Dr. Patricia Trenton 

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond S. Troubh 

Mrs. Hooper Truettner 

Mr. Elliott Trumbull 

Mr. George T. Trumbull 

Mrs. Helen Tucker 

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Turken 

Mr. and Mrs. W. Anthony Ullman 

Mrs. John K. Van de Camp 

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Victor 

Mrs. T. Vreeland 

Mr. Duane A. Wakeham 

Mrs. Norton Walbridge 

Mr. McClelland Wallace 

Mr. and Mrs. E. Dennis Walsh 

Mrs. Joan Washburn 

Mr. and Mrs. Max Wasserman 

Mr. F. Carrington Weems 



Mrs. Rudolph W. Weitz 

Mrs. Elaine G. Weitzen 

Mrs. Harry Wetzel 

Mrs. Barbara Whipple 

Mrs. Frances J. Whitney 

Mrs. Elaine Wilde 

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Wille 

Mrs. Harold Williams 

Mr. and Mrs. R. Jamison Williams 

Mrs. Robert R. Williams 

Mr. John Wilmerding 

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Wineman 

Mr. James L. Winokur 

Mr. Erving Wolf 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Wolfe 

Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Wollenzin, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Clarence J. Woodard 

Mrs. Margaret C. Wray 

Mrs. Thaw Wright 

Mrs. Theodore O. Yntema 

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Young, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Martin Zankel 

Mrs. Guri Lie Zeckendorf 



COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM 
Donors of Financial Support 

$100,000 OR MORE 

Arthur Ross 

$10,000 OR MORE 

A La Vieille Russie Galleries, Inc. 
Karen Johnson Boyd 
Helen Buckner 
Ford Foundation 
C. E. Heath Public Limited 
Company 

$1,000 OR MORE 

Adweek/ASM Corp. 

American Express Foundation 

American Scandinavian Foundation 

Anonymous 

Laura Ashley, Inc. 

AT&T 

Avon Products 

Baker, Knapp & Tubbs, Inc. 

Mary Barnes 

Bristol-Myers Fund 

Brunschwig & Fils, Inc. 

Burlington Industries 

Coach Leatherware, Inc. 

Con Edison 

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Corroon 



Lester 5. Morse, Jr. 

Helena Rubinstein Foundation 

Simpson, Thacher, Bartlett 

Warner Communications Foundation, 

Inc. 
Ralph J. Weiler Foundation 



Covven & Company 

Byron Donzis 

Faberge, Inc. 

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty 

Howard Gilman Foundation 

Hallmark Cards, Inc. 

Harmonie Club 

E. F. Hauserman Co. 

Johnson & Higgins 

Knapp Communications, Inc. 

Knoll International, Inc. 

Lee/Jofa, Inc. 

Mobil Oil Corp. 

Philip Morris, Inc. 

The Ohrstrom Foundation 



588 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Pace Collection, Inc. 
Petochi & Gorevic 
Salomon Brothers, Inc. 
Saudi International Bank 
Joseph E. Seagram & Sons 
Rosemarie Sena 

$500 OR MORE 

Charles W. Ireland 
Samuel C. Johnson 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Massar 

Donors to the Collection 

Anonymous 

H. Cecilia Bailey 

Bequest of Martin Battersby 

Ruth M. Blaine 

August Boj 

Bradbury & Bradbury Wallpapers 

Estate of Elizabeth Brush 

Boris Bucan 

China Seas, Inc. 

Arthur Cohen 

Lucy Commoner, in memory of 

Babette Deutsch 
Rosemary Corroon 
Entertainment Systems of America 
Anna Ferrarini 
Firma Svenskt Tenn 
Focus Belysning 

Foreningen for Nutida Svenskt Silver 
Fritz Hansen A/S 
Robert Furhoff 
Francis Ceck 
Rose Gottschalk 
Richard Harden 
ICF, Inc. 

Mrs. John Jay Ide 
littala Glassworks 
Mrs. H. Klee 
Kooperativa Forbundet 
Theodore Krieg 
Boris Kroll 
Dr. and Mrs. Jerrold Lieberman 



Celia Siegel 

Stravropoulos, Inc. 

Louis Comfort Tiffany Foundation 

Uris Brothers Foundation 

John Wiley & Sons 



Mitchell J. Nelson 
Barbara J. Strauss 



John H. Liedberg for Royal 
Copenhagen Porcelain Co. 

Judge and Mrs. Walter Mansfield 

David McFadden 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Mertz 

Andreas Mikkelsen 

Orrefors AB 

Daren Pierce 

RFSU Rehab 

Zandra Rhodes 

Eva K. Roberts 

John Sailer 

Astrid Sampe 

Katherine C. Schmidt 

Mrs. Pierrpont Davis Schreiber 

Robert and Sherry Schreiber 

Eric Shrubsole 

Society for the Preservation of 
Long Island Antiquities 

A/S Stelton 

Dr. and Mrs. Robert L. Tannenbaum 

Taunus Textldruk Zimmer 

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Thurman, in 
memory of Alice Baldwin Beer 

Dalmar Tifft 

Mrs. Robert C. Van Ness 

Vivero Oy 

Jordan Volpe Gallery 

Phelps Warren 

Mrs. Edward Willett 



FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Donors of Financial Support 

American Telephone and Telegraph 

Company 
Chinese Brush Painting Society 
Clark Endowment Fund 
Mr. Willard G. Clark 
Peggy and Richard Danziger Fund 



Mr. Peter Drucker 

Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary 

Griggs Burke Foundation 
Mrs. Silvia Horvath 
Phi Delta Epsilon Women's 

Auxiliary 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 589 



Donors to the Freer Collection 
Mrs. Elizabeth Lorentz 

Donors to the Study Collection 

Mrs. Ada G. Appleton 
Colonel Harold B. Chase, Jr. 
Dr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Clark 
Ms. Louise A. Cort 
Mr. John de Bry 

Donors to the Library 

Ms. Louise Alport 

George and Frances Armour 

Foundation in Memory of George 

and Frances Armour 

Donor to the Facility 
Mrs. Annemarie Pope 



Mrs. William S. Weedon 



Robert and Linda Goldman and son 

Francis 
Mrs. Garnet C. Hulings 
Mr. Shigenori Ito 
Miss Mary Jane Pagan 
Mr. N. P. Wong 



Mrs. James E. Bannon 

Mr. John W. Gruber 

Mr. and Mrs. Murray Lebwohl 

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation 



HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 



Donors of Financial Support 

Louise Alport 
Anonymous Gift 
Mrs. Bettina Bancroft 

Donors to the Collection 

Anonymous Gift 

Mrs. Bettina Bancroft 

Murray S. Bring, Esq. 

Arthur Cohen 

Dr. and Mrs. Julian Eisenstein 

Ann and Robert Freeman 

Donors to the Library 

Louise Alport 

Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn 



Mr. Raymond Eyes and Anne 

Coleman Eyes 
Smithson Society 



Mr. and Mrs. Otto Grun 
Francesco Messina 
Scott Nordheimer 
Roy Nydorf 
Estate of Robert Phillip 



Charles Millard 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART 



Donors of Financial Support 

David and Nancy Anderson 
Mr. Martin W. Bell 
Rosemary F. Crockett 
Scot M. Faulkner 
Nancy McElroy Folger 
Joseph Gerofsky 
Mrs. Milton P. Higgins 
The J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc. 
David Lloyd Kreeger 



Beatrice C. Mayer 

Mr. and Mrs. G. William Miller 

Franklin C. Moore 

Stenio Alexandre Schiavo 

Shell Companies Foundation 

Mrs. Irwin Smiley 

Estate of Clare Timberlake 

The Westport Fund 



590 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Donors to the Collection 

Leo Craig 

Gaston deHavenon 

Melvin and H. Alan Frank 

Friends of the National Museum of 

African Art 
Timothy P. Hauser 



Robert and Nancy Nooter 

Warren Robbins 

Mr. and Mrs. Marc S. Sherman 

Joseph Sinclair 

Mrs. Eleanor Lee Templeman 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART 



Donors of Financial Support 

Mary Jo Aagerstoun 
American Security Bank, N.A. 
American Society of Association 

Executives 
The Art Lovers' League 
Boise Cascade Corporation 
Queene Ferry Coonley Foundation, 

Inc. 
Corning Glass Works Foundation 
Janet Sharon Farr 
Mrs. Elizabeth C. Faulker 
Fendrick Gallery 
First American Bank 
Mrs. Johnson Garrett 
The Philip L. Graham Fund 
Marcia C. Growdon 
Thomas C. Howe 
Caroline H. Hume 
Mrs. Walter Johnson, Sr. 
Mr. Richard Kamm 
Edgar Kaufmann, Jr. 
Samuel H. Kress Foundation 
Milton S. Kronheim & Company, Inc. 

Donors to the Collections 

Anonymous Donor 

Katherine Alley 

Ruth B. Benedict 

Flora M. Biddle 

Mortimer Brandt 

Darryl A. Brittain 

Harry Brodsky 

Herbert Brook 

Mrs. Claude Buck 

Mrs. Mildred V. Budny 

William H. Calfee 

Jerome Canter 

Mr. and Mrs. David J. Carlson 

Allyn Cox 

Mary Griffin Crowell 

Patricia Daly 

Frederick Darling 

Mr. and Mrs. Salvatore Del Deo 



Mr. and Mrs. Wendell Lund 

Nan Tucker McEvoy 

The McKee Foundation Inc. 

P. J. & Darle Maveety 

Nazarian Brothers Inc. 

N S & T Bank 

The Parthenon 

David S. Purvis 

Esther W. Putnam 

The Rau Foundation Inc. 

James Renwick Collectors Alliance 

Billy Rose Foundation, Inc. 

Jean M. Seth 

Caroline T. Simmons 

Eloise A. Spaeth 

Standard Brands Incorporated 

Stanley Enterprises, Inc. 

Charles H. Tompkins Company 

Trilogy Design Incorporated 

The Washington Craft Show 

Virginia Bloedel Wright 

The Yale Club of Washington, D.C. 



Werner Drewes 
Helen Williams Drutt 
S. Arlent Edwards 
Katherine G. Eirk 
Dr. Richard Flax 
Estelle E. Friedman 
Minnette L. Frohlich 
Margaret J. Garrett 
Lorrie Goulet 
Arthur and Anne Granick 
Chaim and Renee Gross 
Mr. and Mrs. Otto Grun 
George A. Haas 
Mary Jane Haas 
Walker Hancock 
Harcourts Gallery 
Grace Van Line Hartley 
Miss Charlotte Heilbron 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 591 



Brian A. Higgins 

Jane Edington Higgins 

Barbara Hoerr 

Jem W. Horn 

Phyllis Graham Ingram 

Thomas J. Ingram III 

Elaine Kurtz 

Aaron Kozak 

Herb Kruckman 

S. W. & B. M. Koffler Foundation 

Michael Lantz 

Robert L. Lennon 

David Levine 

Helen Levitt 

The Reverend Alexander Livesay 

Patricia Colleen McCall 

George McNeil 

Juliet Man Ray 

Maryland Committee for the 

Humanities 
Theresa B. Meyerowitz 
David W. Munn 
Enid H. Munroe 
Arnold Newman 
Augusta Newman 



Emily Abbott Nordfeldt 

Roy Nydorf 

O'Hara Picture Trust 

Violet Oakley Memorial Foundation 

Ms. Ruth Pondrom 

Bequest of Henry Ward Ranger 

through the National Academy 

of Design 
James Renwick Collectors Alliance 
Edouard Roditi 
Chuck and Jan Rosenak 
Caroline B. Shephard 
James A. Shephard 
Mrs. Sarah J. Shulman 
Rene E. St. Ives 
Amelia St. Ives 
Richard Stuart Gallery 
David M. Tofsky 
Frank C. Treseder 
Roberta R. Treseder 
Cynthia Corcoran Tuttle 
Robert Tuttle 
Isaac Witkin 
Martin Woldow 
Harry W. Zichterman 



NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY 



Donors of Financial Support 

Catherine Absalom 
AKC Fund 

American Legion Post 88 
American Radio Relay League, Inc. 
American Society of 
Anesthesiologists 
American Watchmakers Institute, Inc. 
Amos Press, Inc. 
Robert M. Armstrong 
Atwood Foundation 
Mrs. J. W. Auchincloss 
Donald B. Avey, Sr. 
Katherine Baker 
Virginia Ballard 
Mrs. Helen H. Barnes 
The Bass Foundation 
Laura F. Beavers 

Mr. and Mrs. William P. Bebbington 
Nicholas Benton 
Helene D. Bodman 
Mrs. Fred C. Bowers 
Mrs. Robert A. Brooks 
Mrs. Percy W. Brown 
Weir M. Brown 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Campbell 
Canadian Pacific 



Anthony Chanaka 

Timothy W. Childs 

CITIBANK, N.A. 

Mrs. Thomas K. Cline 

Joan P. Collings 

Lt. Col. Robert D. Crea 

Dr. Herta G. Dagen 

Mr. and Mrs. Leroy E. Doggett 

Mr. and Mrs. George A. T. Donely 

Mr. and Mrs. William F. Dormire 

Edison Electric Institute 

Efratom, Inc. 

EG&G Technical Products Group 

Ruth T. Entrekin 

Frances J. Fahnestock 

Ruth P. Fenton 

Mr. and Mrs. Craig Fields 

Mr. and Mrs. David Fitzgerald 

The Ford Foundation 

Frequency Electronics 

Joseph F. Gargiulo 

Raymond & Florence Garland 

Mrs. Shirley T. Garrison 

Stephanie Glaser 

Ms. Genevieve H. Goodwin 

Edward Grainger 



592 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Gulf + Western Manufacturing 

Company 
Hallmark Cards, Inc. 
Lola M. Hanson 
Mr. and Mrs. James Hansz 
Robert Harlan, Jr. 
Harmers of New York, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Parker T. Hart 
Mrs. William A. Harty 
Mr. William H. Helfand 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Hinkel 
Mrs. Henry W. Hoagland 
Mr. and Mrs. Eugen Holben 
George B. Holmes 
Alfred Holzer 
Dr. Bruce Howe 
Hughes Aircraft Company Research 

Laboratories 
Adriana Huyer 
Hydro-Quebec 
Mrs. Dorothy Ingersoll 
International Association of 

Amusement Parks 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 
Johns Hopkins University 
Mrs. R. Keith Kane 
Kernco 

Genevieve Koester 
Lawrence Kolp 
Mrs. Walter Kravitz 
Cameron J. Laclair, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. James F. Lawrence 
Phyllis J. Lee 

Litton Guidance & Control Systems 
Mrs. William A. Long 
Magnavox Advanced Products Co. 
H. Allen Mali 
Arnold Manor, M.D. 
Mrs. Donald Marks 
Nancy M. McCabe 
Mildred R. Mclntyre 
Lt. Col. Anna M. McKim 
Margaret McLaughlin 
Mrs. Russell B. McNeill 
Mrs. Louden Mellen 
Mr. J. Jefferson Miller III 
Mrs. Theodore W. Mix 
W. Raymond Mize, Jr., M.D. 
Mary Modell 

Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Moranda 
Jeanne H. Morris 
Mrs. Stephen V. C. Morris 
Mrs. Dwight Morrow, Jr. 
National Railway Historical Society, 

Washington, D.C., Chaptec 



National Railway Publication 

Company 
Mr. Hal Needham 
Lowell Newman 
Gerson Nordlinger, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Notman 
Mr. and Mrs. William H. O'Brien 
Mr. Frank O'Leary 
Mr. and Mrs. George O'Sullivan 
Outdoor Amusement Business, Inc. 
Mrs. Horace Peters 
Lionel I. Pincus Foundation, Inc. 
Peter G. Powers 
PTTI Planning Conference 
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence J. Radice 
The Radiological Society of North 

America, Inc. 
Allen J. Reiter 
Thomas M. Roberts 
Rockwell International 
Ferdinand W. Roebling III 
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Rosenbaum 
Rodris Roth 

Mrs. Evelyn Beveridge Russell 
Estate of Ruth A. Safford 
Irene R. Schriber 
Sears, Roebuck & Co. 
Ms. S. T. Shook 

Mr. and Mrs. Irving E. Silverman 
Mrs. John Farr Simmons 
Mr. and Mrs. Zigmund J. Skupski 
Alan B. Slifka Foundation, Inc. 
Mrs. Francis A. Smith 
Mrs. Henry Smith III 
Mrs. James Russell Smith 
Mrs. Lawrence M. C. Smith 
Rachel M. Smith 
Smithsonian Resident Associates 
The Society for Investigative 

Dermatology, Inc. 
Society of Women Engineers 
Janet W. Solinger 
Davidson Sommers 
Henry Z. Steinway 
Janet Hart Sylvester 
Mrs. Sylvia Symington 
Ruth and Vernon Taylor Foundation 
Dr. Dulany Terrett 
Elaine Thornburgh 
Emily M. Touey 
Tracor, Inc. 
Pauline Bird Treman 
Mrs. Bronson Tweedy 
Twentieth Century-Fox Film 

Corporation 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 593 



Verian Associates Mrs. C. H. West, Jr. 

Peggy D. Winston Miss Sara E. West 

Constanze Crea Wales Anita J. Willens 

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Walthall Mr. and Mrs. Burke Wilkinson 

Mrs. Sylvia K. Ward Mrs. Donald Wood 

James E. Wesner Helen Wooley 

Donors to the National Collections 

Mrs. Bonita Abernathy: 19th-century silk pieced-work quilt with a design of 
stars and trapunto-stitched plants made by Mary Hise Norton of Russell- 
ville, Kentucky (1982.0392). 

Dale Abrams, Anne E. Abramson, Ronald Abramson, Robert Loeffler, M.D., 
and Vera Loeffler: matte-black studio glass vase with orange, blue, and 
white designs made by Joel Philip Myers, Bloomington, Illinois, 1981 
(1981.0388). 

Dale Edward Abrams: glass dipper titled Covenant by Vernon Brejcha and a 
glass vase by John Kuhn, both made in 1981 (1981.0813). 

Dr. Arthur S. Adams: Whieldon ceramic platter with brown and green tor- 
toise-shell glaze (1981.0270). 

Deborah A. Adrian: shaving set consisting of a razor, razor blades, strop, 
and box, 1920-60 (1982.0253). 

Dorothy S. Ahlborn: archery equipment including 11 arrows and 2 arrow 
shafts in a box, a quiver, a bow sight kit, and an arrow repair device all 
used during the 1930s and 1940s (1982.0495). 

Francis J. Alfter: crystal radio set made and used by Glen E. Alfter while in 
a German prisoner-of-war camp during WW II (1982.0721). 

Mrs. Richard L. Allen: deck of 68 contract bridge playing cards in 5 suits 
made by the Russell Playing Card Co., ca. 1938 (1983.0294). 

Amateur Softball Association of America (through William H. Plummet III) : 

2 patches from the "III Women's World Softball Championship, 1974, 
USA, Stratford, Conn." (1982.0746). 

American Association of University Women (through Mary H. Purcell) : 3 
posters, 2 circulars, 2 pamphlets, 2 bumper stickers, and a book concerning 
women's rights (1981.0884); 38 documentary items, buttons, and pins con- 
cerning the American Association of University Women and women's rights 
(1982.0391). 

The American National Red Cross (through Mary D. Doering) : 14 publica- 
tions, a book, sticker, form, and a pin (1983.0270). 

American President Lines, Ltd. (through Timothy J. Rhein) : 4 photographs, 

3 press releases, a pamphlet, and a paperweight concerning the christening 
and launching of the M. V. President Washington container ship on April 
24, 1982 (1982.0683). 

Diane Amussen: 2 ceramic plates with blue transfer-printed designs of the 
"Landing of Gen La Fayette," 1818-34, and "The Pavilion, Fort Ticonder- 
Oga," 1895-1949 (1981.0965). 

Theo Charles Andersen: camera with lens and flange (1983.0060). 

Richard H. Anderson: Seattle Mariners Baseball Club pennant (1983.0101). 

Paul H. Angel III: waist belt plate of a U.S. Militia officer in the Infantry or 
Dragoons, 1814-40 (1983.0109). 

Robt. A. Angsten: model of Al-Vista 180-degree sweep panoramic camera 
invented by Peter N. Angsten, 1890s, in leather case (1983.0103). 

Anonymous: off-white satin wedding dress with long train, off-white cap with 
veil, white seamed stockings, white silk garter and satin pumps both 
trimmed with wax orange blossoms, off-white crepe sleeveless nightgown, 
and an off-white crepe teddy, bill for the wedding dress, wedding and 



594 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



reception invitations, envelopes, at home cards, stationery box, white 

leather bride's book, 7 wedding photographs, 2 pieces of wedding cake in 

original boxes, bride and groom cake decorations, and bouquet fragments, 

1928 (1980.0030). 
Mrs. Joseph Aschheim: 3 brass Girl Guide pins, ca. 1900 (1982.0653); 3 tin 

cigarette boxes labeled "Player's Medium Navy Cut" (1983.0026); George 

McGovern "Worldsavers" candy wrapper (1983.0164). 
Dorothy C. and Ruth Bacon: blue and white striped wool blanket, ca. 1898 

(1982.0296); brown wool striped blanket of the Civil War era used in Cuba 

during the Spanish-American War, 1898 (1982.0602). 
Rolfe M. Baggett: 2 press passes for the 1981 presidential inauguration and 

inaugural ball (1982.0409). 
J. V. Balzer: hand-carved wooden model of a man in a wagon pulled by two 

Percheron horses made by John V. Balzer of Hooker, Oklahoma, 1982 

(1982.0413). 
The Most Honorable Bapsybanoo Marchioness of Winchester and Dasturzada 

Dr. Jal Pavry: 29 medals and coins commemorating great historic occasions 

(1979.1107). 
Susan A. Barber: woman's black silk cape with a wide boat-shaped neckline 

believed to have been worn by Gertrude Margaret Wengler Kinney, 1895- 

1905 (1981.0400). 
Carol S. Barie: 5 pieces of women's clothing from 1950s and 1960s including 

two 2-piece dresses by Anne Fogarty, a sleeveless lightweight navy blue 

dress by Howard Wolf, and a pale-pink dotted swiss robe and pink crepe 

nightgown by Tula (1980.0546). 
Gary Barnhard: Koralla camera (1983.0061). 
Stan Barrett: uniform and goggles worn by Mr. Barrett while driving the 

Budweiser rocket car, the first land vehicle to break the speed of sound in 

an unofficial run at Edwards Air Force Base, California on December 17, 

1979 (1982.0662). 
Joseph E. Baudino: thermonic voltmeter and a spare triode tube (1983.0106). 
Carter Bays: Betsy Ross toy sewing machine (1982.0516). 
Bruce S. Bazelon: 1881 helmet and 84 U.S. military insignia badges, buttons, 

and accessories (1979.1211); 52 insignia badges, buttons, and accessories 

(1981.0938). 
Dita Davis Beard: 2 maroon and white decals "If I were 21 I'd Vote for 

Nixon" (1983.0266). 
The Andrew H. and Walter R. Beardsley Foundation (through Robert B. 

Beardsley) : 3 eyeglass cases and a pair of sunglasses in a case owned by 

Eleanor Roosevelt and a pair of pince-nez eyeglasses owned by President 

Franklin D. Roosevelt (1983.0152). 
Katherine Patricia Becker in memory of Frank Horger Becker: Model 5 

American adding machine (1983.0290). 
Silvio A. Bedini: Christmas card from President and Mrs. Ford, 1976 (1983. 

0112). 
Russell Bernard Belcher, P.C., U.S.N. : U.S. Navy commissioning cover can- 
celled "U.S. Navy, U.S.S. Tisdale (FFG-27), November 13, 1982" with cachet 

(1983.0029). 
Marion S. Bergesen: white linen damask tablecloth (1982.0143). 
Berkey K & L Custom Services, Inc. (through Ken Lieberman and Arthur 

Rothstein) : 10 prints of Farm Security Administration photographs, 1930s 

(1983.0069). 
Samuel Bernstein: Victor adding machine used by Mr. Bernstein while 

secretary-treasurer of the Workmen's Circle (1982.0475). 
Martha Berrien: 6 pochoir brushes (1982.0610). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 595 



Blair Birdsall: 91 groups of photographs and specifications of bridge, tram- 
way, and ski lift construction from the records of John A. Roeblings's Sons 
Company (1982.0720). 

F. E. Bitting in memory of Ralph Lee Bitting: 25 envelopes with lithographed 
patriotic designs from the Spanish-American War period (1980.0258). 

Alice C. and Edward F. Blackman: 2 programs, a silk souvenir program, and 
a photographic postcard from the New York Hippodrome Theater, 1919 
(1982.0738). 

Mrs. William McCormick Blair, Jr.: woman's navy blue Givenchy coat, light- 
grey Christian Dior 4-piece dress, black and brown Balenciaga dress, dark- 
green Dior pantsuit, black Yves St. Laurent pantsuit, black knit quilted bag 
by Chanel, black velvet pumps, grey crepe shoes, green sandals, Yves St. 
Laurent necklace, and a boy's navy blue blazer (1982.0020). 

Dorothy Blanchard: white wool wedding dress worn in 1881 by Alice Vara 
Proctor Cobb (1981.0636). 

Walter P. Blount, M.D. : 2 Milwaukee braces for treatment of spinal curva- 
tures, ca. 1950 and 1970 (308163). 

Thayer M. Boardman on behalf of the University of Kansas: blue felt pen- 
nant from the University of Kansas (1982.0563). 

Ann F. Boyce: photomontage poster of the National Women's Conference, 
International Women's Year, held in Houston, Texas, 1977 (1981.0638). 

Charles H. Bradford on behalf of Allen Putnam: pre-Civil War oil lamp pos- 
sibly from the USS Constitution (1983.0340). 

Jeremiah D. Brady: New York Numismatic Club bronze medal by Karl 
Gruppe inscribed "Jeremiah D. Brady, President, 1980-81," (1982.0713). 

Braille Institute of America, Inc. (through Russell W. Kirbey) : Atkinson 
model portable braille writer designed by J. Robert Atkinson and William 
Goetze, ca. 1931 (1982.0592). 

Mildred Brainard: 2 photographs of Mrs. Brainard taken by Arnold Genthe, 
ca. 1935 (1982.0698). 

Helene Bress: fragment of a coverlet with the woven inscription "Made by 
C. Nicklas/Chambersburgh/Franklin County/1855" (1982.0142). 

W. E. Brockel: Voigtlander Avus folding plate camera with film pack adapter. 
Autographic Kodak folding rollfilm camera with case. Expo subminiature 
rollfilm "watch" camera, Diaphot visual exposure meter by Zeiss Ikon with 
case, and Leudi and Leudi II visual exposure meters with cases (1982.0555). 

The Brooklyn Museum: woman's silk dress bodice with a black ground of 
interlocking gold hoops, ca. 1890, and a woman's 3-piece long pale-purple 
taffeta dress by I. Magnin, ca. 1934 (1981.0229). 

Laura-May Spain Brown: black Quaker bonnet, silver mesh purse, and a 
black taffeta bag (1981.0808). 

Marcia H. Brown: 2-piece off-white satin dress trimmed with black lace and a 
pair of white kid elbow-length gloves worn by Jessie Fremont Smith-Brown, 
1893-95 (1981.0480). 

Michael J. Brown: German Kriegsflagge, WW II (1982.0569). 

Linda Brughelli: seltzer bottle used by Clarabell the Clown on the "Howdy 
Doody" television show (1982.0478). 

Elsa M. Bruton: 2 blue soaps with cameo portraits of George and Martha 
Washington and a clear glass soap plate with an eagle motif issued by 
Avon during the Bicentennial, 1976 (1982.0411). 

Bulbul (through Gen. Pilgrim Guracar) : 3 cartoon booklets and a cartoon con- 
cerning women's rights (1983.0163). 

The Bunker Hill Company (through J. W. Kendrick) : 20-kilowatt Edison bi- 
polar generator, ca. 1890 (1983.0142). 

Katherine G. Byrnes: woman's black straw hat trimmed with a cluster of blue 



596 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



and beige artificial flowers and a black velvet hat trimmed with black 
ostrich feathers, both 1880-1900 (1981.0753). 

Call Carl, Inc. (through Wm. O. Herrmann) : 5-year service pin given to em- 
ployees of Call Carl, Inc., Washington, D.C., ca. 1945 (1982.0664). 

Camp Springs Christian Schools (through Myrtle H. Raines): Perkin-Elmer 
spectrophotometer model 202 with 2 thermospacer sets, a photomultiplier 
attachment, and a cell compartment assembly (1982.0630). 

Leopoldo Cancio: 61 medieval Middle Eastern coins of bronze and silver 
(1981.0772). 

Heloise Canter: 3 conical bronze dies of native workmanship for coins of the 
Indian State of Tonk (1981.1068). 

Carlisle Colonial Minute Men, Inc. (through Robert R. Heath): 2 1981 Esta- 
brook Trail Walk medals (1981.0750). 

Carpenter Body Works, Inc. (through John A. Foddrill and Don J. Hardin): 
restored 1936 Carpenter-Dodge school bus (1982.0600). 

Douglas A. Carr: U.S. Army and Navy song and service book for ship and 
field, 1942 (1982.0372). 

Russell K. Cashdollar: man's formal long-sleeved shirt, a white collar, and 
an original shirt box (1982.0247). 

Russell K. Cashdollar and David M. Novak: reflector for a gas lighting fix- 
ture used in a Methodist church in Jim Thorpe, Pennsylvania, 1870s (1982. 
0301). 

Ruth T. Cathcart: 6 pairs of porcelain cups and saucers with transfer-printed 
decorations honoring the U.S. Centennial of 1876 made by William T. 
Copeland & Sons, Staffordshire, England (1982.0127). 

Jeffrey P. Cave: 4-keyed boxwood flute by Goulding D'Almaine, Potter & 
Company, 12-keyed flute by Wm. G. Schulze, 10-keyed flute marked 
"NACH/H. F. MEYER/HANNOVER," 8-keyed rosewood flute by E. Riley, 
6-keyed piccolo, Bohm flute by Carl Schreiber, and a Bohm flute by Wm. S. 
Haynes (1983.0234). 

The Chase Manhattan Bank, N. A. (through A. Wright Elliott) : collection of 
coins, paper currencies, checks, documents of value, tokens, scrip, primitive 
media of exchange, medals, and related materials (1979.1263). 

Chicago Historical Society (through Olivia Mahoney) : 13-star U.S. ensign 
boat flag from the second USS Maine (1982.0044); (through Teresa Krutz) : 
life jacket from White Star Liner Titanic, sunk April 15, 1912 (1982.0319); 
through Ellsworth H. Brown) : leather boxing gloves worn and autographed 
by Jack Dempsey (1982.0360). 

Owen T. Churchill: 3 pairs of swim fins, a 1939 working model swim fin, key 
ring with miniature swim fin, an advertisement for swim fins, and a yacht- 
ing award plaque "Angelita, 8 Meter Yacht, Winner Olympic Gold Medal, 
1932" (1983.0200). 

Elvira Clain-Stefanelli: 6 Norwegian and 3 Portuguese coins (1979.1251); 4 
French art medals, 1970s, and a medal commemorating the International 
Exposition of Medals held in Paris in October, 1967 (1983.0258); 7 medal 
series issued by the Leonardo da Vinci National Museum of Science 
and Technology in Milan, Italy, 1970, and 2 medals commemorating the 
"Selective Fund Mediolanum," 1973 and 1974 (1983.0259); 2 French art 
medals, 1972 and 1973, and a Greek commemorative medal (1983.0261). 

Elvira Clain-Stefanelli in memory of Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli: 18 dies used 
by modern counterfeiters to strike the obverse and reverse of 9 very rare 
gold coins of Roman en>presses (1982.0761); 4-subject copper plate for 
printing Maryland 1- and 2-dollar notes, 1840 (1982.0762); 2 proof sheets 
of obsolete notes of the Manhattan Company of New York engraved by 
Rawdon, Wright, Hatch & Co., New York (1982.0763); 12 samples of 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 597 



experimental minting alloys from the Franklin Mint contained in an album 
(1982.0764); 64 ancient Greco-Roman coins struck in Viminacium (1982. 
0777); 19 ancient Greek silver drachms of Corinth (1982.0778). 

Elvira and V. Clain-Stefanelli: 6 dies for making counterfeit solidi of Byzan- 
tine Emperor Heraclius, A.D. 610-41 (1980.0963); 4 steel dies used to 
counterfeit gold coins of Byzantine Emperor Heraclius and his son Con- 
stantine, A.D. 613-41 (1980.0964); 6 dies used to counterfeit gold solidi of 
Byzantine Emperor Constantine III, A.D. 641-68 (1980.0965); 6 dies used 
to counterfeit solidi by Byzantine Emperors Constantine III, A.D. 641-68, 
and Tiberius III Apsimarus, A.D. 698-705 (1980.0966); 4 dies used to 
counterfeit gold coins of Byzantine Emperor Constantine V, A.D. 741-75 
(1980.0967); 6 dies used to counterfeit gold solidi of Byzantine Emperor 
Constantine V with his son Leo IV, A.D. 751-75 (1980.0968); 6 dies made 
by master engraver Tardani for counterfeiting gold solidi of Byzantine 
Emperor Leo IV, A.D. 775-80 (1980.0969); 6 dies used to counterfeit gold 
solidi of Byzentine Emperor Leo IV, the Khazar, with Constantine VI, 
A.D. 776-80 (1980.0970); 4 dies used to counterfeit gold solidi of Byzantine 
Emperor Constantine VI wi^h his mother, Irene of Athens, A.D. 780-97 
(1980.0971); 6 steel dies with copper inserts made by master engraver 
Tardani for counterfeiting gold solidi of Byzantine emperors of the 8th 
century A.D. (1980.0972); 4 steel dies with copper inserts used to counter- 
feit gold coins of Byzantine emperors of the 8th and 9th century A.D. 
(1980.0973); 2 dies with lead copies attributed to master engraver Tardani 
used to counterfeit gold solidi of Byzantine Emperor Leo III, the Isaurian, 
A.D. 717-41 (1980.0974); 3 dies with lead copies used to counterfeit gold 
solidi of Byzantine Emperor Artavasdus and Artavasdus with Nicephorus, 
A.D. 742-43 (1980.0975). 

Mrs. Robert W. Clark, Jr. : hand-made off-white crepe graduation dress worn 
by Evelyn Powell Beach (1981.0575). 

Elizabeth Clarke: anti-ERA button and handout (1982.0418). 

Cleveland Board of Education (through Harrison Dillard and Carl A. Long) : 
30 objects from Room 201 of the Dunham School in Cleveland, Ohio com- 
prised of architectural elements, furniture, teaching aids, and decorations 
(1982.0718). 

Carl E. Clever: Vitascope camera (1983.0062). 

Dwight M. Collins: 32 phonorecords (1982.0611). 

Lynn Conlee: pair of cotton painter's pants and a pair of Candle's high- 
heeled shoes, ca. 1979 (1980.0869). 

Avlyn Dodd Conley: woman's black rhinestone-studded cosmetic purse used 
by Mary Margaret Conley, ca. 1925 (1982.0438). 

Edith P. and Philip S. Cook: 3 infant's dresses, child's dress, infant's slip, 
and undershirt worn by Paul Cook, born in 1847 (1980.0136). 

Marjorie A. Cope: Chambre Claire Universelle camera lucida (1982.0430). 

Thelma Craddock: wooden box containing a Tru-Vue film viewer and 12 
boxes of film (1983.0063). 

Helen A. Crane: 1902 postcard of President Theodore Roosevelt with the 

quotation "The need in public and private life is common sense, honesty, 

decency, and courage" (1982.0215). 
Margret Craver: 3 silversmith's raising stakes of cast-iron reproduced from 

17th-century stakes housed in the London School of Art, England (1983. 

0231). 

Margaret Sands Crebbin: 2 woman's white petticoats, 1850-69 (1981.0953). 
Carol S. Cunningham: pochoir print Bell Flowers by Carol Cunningham, 1981 
(1982.0628). 



598 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Estate of Field Curry (through Ruth Curry) : color lithograph Entrance of the 
Railway at Edge Hill, Liverpool, ca. 1833 (1982.0557). 

Mary R. Daily: Red Cross volunteer service pin, 1940 (1982.0695). 

Helen Bickel Dale and Robert B. Dale: walking stick with a small chip of 
the Liberty Bell soldered to the silver cap made, according to family tradi- 
tion, from a beam removed from the Pennsylvania State House during 
renovations in 1872 (1983.0277). 

Ruth K. Davies: brown leather child's shoe found in the wall of the Old 
Tavern at Great Falls, Virginia, 1775-1850 (1979.0907). 

Carterette C. Davis: woman's 2-piece brocade dress made by Carterette C. 
Davis, the dress pattern, an extra piece of brocade, a piece of aqua-colored 
synthetic fabric lining, a pair of elbow-length brown suede gloves from 
I. Magnin, and a plastic bag for the gloves (1980.0871). 

Thomas L. Davis: 5 Royal Crown Cola cans with pictures of baseball players 
Claudell Washington, Richie Hebner, Bert Campaneris, Rod Carew, and 
Chris Chambliss (1982.0471). 

Mrs. Francis M. Day: Centennial printed fabric (1981.0332). 

Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (through John Franzen) : 2 
videotape cassettes concerning Social Security featuring Congressman 
Claude Pepper, dated October 6, 1982 (1983.0158). 

Democratic National Committee (through John Franzen) : 2 videotape cassettes 
of the 1982 television campaign (1983.0131). 

Elizabeth H. Denholm: woman's white cotton petticoat with an embroidered 
eyelet design and a scalloped border, 1840-60, and a woman's nightgown 
of white cotton with floral embroidery on neckline and cuffs, 1860-80 
(1981.0294). 

Albert J. Desrosiers: serigraph titled Circus Bicyclist and a lithograph titled 
Circus Horses by John August Swanson (1983.0036). 

Barbara Dickstein: 3 man's neckties, man's blue Lacoste shirt, boy's striped 
Lacoste shirt, woman's T-shirt with inscription "Dannon Yogurt," girl's 
Speedo bathing suit, green socks, and a Lanz of Salsburg nightgown, all 
from the 1970s (1980.0455); orange knit turtleneck sweater, Conair hair 
dryer, Clairol curling iron, and a set of Clairol hair curlers (1980.0870). 

Matthew Dickstein: light-green T-shirt with "Colorado Sun Day" emblem, 
2 white T-shirts, one with a Grateful Dead emblem and one with a Rolling 
Stones and "Colorado Sun Day 11" emblem (1980.0873). 

Wilton S. Dillon: green and white button "Cranston '84!" (1983.0267). 

The District of Columbia League of Women Voters (through Ruth P. Dixon) : 
10 dolls used in 1929 to promote District of Columbia voting rights and a 
special edition copy of The Evening Star dated February 1-March 12, 1928 
(1982.0420). 

Mrs. Alan J. Dixon: 2 pamphlets, a book, and a manual about the Masons, 
Masonic uniform worn by William Gerard Dixon in the 1930s, and a suit- 
case (1982.0442). 

Mary D. Doering: woman's green madras plaid clutch-style bag by Villager 
(1981.0413). 

Dr. A. W. and Shirley M. Donan: girl scout uniform consisting of a hat, 
belted jacket, and a skirt worn by Ruth Colby Donan, 1915-20 (1982.0770). 

Earl W. Dorfman: violin made by August Gemunder in the late 19th century 
(1983.0205). 

H. Dwight Duce, Jr., in the name of H. Dwight Duce, Sr. and Family: rim 
lock patent model in wooden box with specifications, drawings, and docu- 
ment of patent granted to Joseph Duce, Jr., of Wolverhampton, England, 
May 24, 1842 (1982.0259). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 599 



Josephine H. Duncan and Mrs. Gary Thornbill: woman's gray silk dress over- 
laid with black net, 1908-12 (1981.0917). 

Ray Eames: 2 shirts, 2 ties, 2 handkerchiefs, tan raincoat, tan corduroy suit, 
grey suit, olive green vest, tan cashmere socks, white shorts, and under- 
shirt, all worn by Charles Eames (1981.0891). 

Betty J. Barley: Purple Heart medal with a bar ribbon and a bar ribbon with 
an oak leaf cluster awarded to Pfc. William Allerton, WW I (1982.0657). 

The Edison Institute, Henry Ford Museum & Greenfield Village (through 
Robert E. Springer) : 2 two-passenger railroad car seats made by Hale and 
Kilburn Manufacturing Gompany (1982.0793). 

S. Arlent Edwards, Jr.: 581 mezzotint prints, 44 printmaking tools, 4 albums, 
2 engraved copper plates, and a photograph, all made or used by artist S. 
Arlent Edwards, Sr., late 19th to early 20th century (1983.0217). 

Gayle Kroudvird Eisenstat: T-shirt and racing number "7047" worn in the 
Gapitol Hill Glassic lOK race on April 17, 1983 (1983.0219). 

Garl Ek: clear glass vase with cut and enameled decorations from the early 
19th century and a clear cut glass dish, ca. 1825 (1981.1007). 

William G. Eliot III: 2 exposure meters with instruction pamphlets (1983. 
0064). 

Dr. Garl E. and Norma Emmerich: President and Mrs. Eisenhower's personal 
Ghristmas card for 1960 designed by Norma Sanden Emmerich for Hall- 
mark Gards Incorporated (1983.0272). 

Gloria and Jerome Engel: light-brown short mink jacket lined with beige 
moire, ca. 1958 (1982.0113). 

ERAmerica (through Mariwyn D. Heath) : 10 photographs, 9 flyers, 3 enve- 
lopes, 3 instruction sheets, 2 negatives, a draft, and a tag, all part of the 
effort to pass the Equal Rights Amendment in 1982 (1982.0680). 

Herbert I. and Robert E. Fahnestock: U.S. Army Assault gas mask and jacket 
hood, ca. 1943 (1979.0336). 

Samuel Falk: 7 35mm negative strips and 8 silver prints of rock music singer 
Janis Joplin taken by Mr. Falk in February 1969 (1982.0523). 

Linda Sue Faucett: indigo-blue wool and white cotton jacquard double-woven 
coverlet in "Peacocks Feeding Their Young" pattern with an "Old Boston 
Town" border (1982.0573). 

Stuart P. Feld: painting of the Civil War military service record of Gapt. 
William E. Ware, 27th Missouri Volunteer Infantry (1982.0108). 

Martha B. Feldman: white refined-earthenware bowl decorated with Dutch 
scenes, 1940-55 (1981.0761). 

Edwin Bennett Filbert and Portia Melown Filbert: framed earthenware tile 
panel titled Reading the Returns in 3 sections subtitled Anticipation, Ap- 
preciation, and Realization made by the Edwin Bennett Tile Works, Balti- 
more, Maryland, 1876-90 (1982.0182). 

Bernard S. Finn: flatiron with a detachable hose designed for use with a 
carbide gas system, ca. 1903 (1982.0510). 

Mrs. Brown Focht: woman's coat with sable collar and buttons, 1890s (1980. 
0378). 

Folly F. Fodor: 9 anti-Vietnam War posters (1982.0405). 

Jane Jeffcoat Foote: Wilson "University" model tennis racket with press, ca. 
1938 (1982.0329). 

Shelly J. Foote: pair of ladies boot-style roller skates and a wood and plastic 
case for skates used by Ms. Foote during the 1950s (1982.0737). 

Four D Productions, Inc. (through Danny Arnold) : 3 videocassettes from the 
final 3-part episode of the television show "Barney Miller" titled "Land- 
mark," 1982 (1982.0561). 

William L. Fredrick: helmet worn by Stan Barrett while driving the Bud- 



600 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



weiser rocket car, the first land vehicle to break the speed of sound in an 
unofficial run at Edwards Air Force Base, California on December 17, 1979 
(1982.0661). 

David Freeman: 2 Victor 7Q rpm phonorecords featuring Jimmie Rodgers 
(1982.0655). 

Freestyle Sales Company, Inc. (through Sam Fatman) : box of Ilford Multi- 
grade photographic paper, set of cardboard-mounted acetate Multigrade 
filters, and an example of number 1 and 2 Multigrade single filters (1983. 
0008). 

Robert A. Furhoff: sample of ingrain carpet power-woven to look like Brus- 
sels carpeting, second half 19th century (1982.0369). 

Furst and Mooney, Inc. (through Ron Furst and Janice Mooney) : 4 multi- 
colored clutch-style handbags of reptile leather and a blue flannel protec- 
tive bag with "Furst and Mooney" emblem (1981.0577). 

GAF Corporation (through James T. Sherwin) : GAF historical camera and 
photographic equipment collection (1982.0390). 

Margaret E. Galligan: field hockey stick (1982.0400); field hockey ball (1982. 
0489). 

Anne H. Ganz: lace barbe, knitted lace shawl, knitted washcloth, patterned 
silk fabric strip and ribbon, pair of sleeves and cuff of white-work, pair of 
sleeves and collar of Brussels Point de Gaze lace, damask towel from the 
World's Columbian Exposition of 1892, embroidered muslin christening 
dress made for Mary Perrine Bell of Trenton, New Jersey in 1842, and a 
piece of unfinished embroidery on net made by Mrs. Henry Hotchkiss of 
New Haven, Connecticut in 1822 (1982.0579). 

D. L. Ganz: minting process set commemorating the Civil War Centennial 
Commission consisting of 5 bronze medals showing the various stages of 
production of a medal, 1965 (1981.0995); 4 small-sized dollar pattern pieces 
produced by Gould, Inc., 1977 (1981.0996); 2 California gold quarter- 
dollars, 1865 and 1870, a nickel struck on a dime planchet, and a U.S. Mint 
bronze medal commemorating George Washington, 1862 (1983.0018). 

Eleanor J. Gawne: U.S. Army clothing including a pair of combat overshoes of 
the Vietnam War period, a single combat overshoe, and a woman's knit 
jacket and skirt (1982.0297). 

John B. Geers, Ph.D.: 26 phonorecords (1983.0181). 

Donna-Lyn Geils: 2-piece basketball uniform worn by Ms. Geils while a 
member of the Chicago Hustle team of the Women's Professional Basket- 
ball League (1982.0488). 

Joanna R. Gilbride: toy tin pipe possibly used to blow soap bubbles, late 
19th century (1982.0487). 

Max Gimpel: print in the form of a flag of the "Pledge of Allegiance" and 

"The Star-Spangled Banner" by Max Gimpel (1982.0601). 
Harry F. Gipe and Joseph St. Lawrence: 2 dry-plate lithographic prints and 

2 plates (1982.0688). 
Lillian D. Gish: black wool coat with a black velvet upper collar believed to 

have been worn by James Madison, 1815-40 (1981.0433). 
Richard Ralph Gomez and Anna McNally: original Dixieland Jazz Band 

phonorecord titled Dixie Jazz Band One Step (1983.0296). 
James M. Goode: 9 U.S. WW II ration books issued to the family of George B. 

Goode and a leather ration book billfold (1979.1157); letter to Mr. Goode 

from Senator Sam J. Ervin, Jr., of North Carolina dated May 26, 1977 

(1983.0111). 

Rosalie S. Goodman: woman's mantle of green and red wool lined with 
burgundy silk, 1880-92 (1981.0027). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 601 



Elizabeth B. Goodway: pair of U.S. Army enlisted-rank scale insignia, 1851- 
72 (1982.0603). 

Elizabeth M. Gordon: framed human-hair wreath with glass beads and sea- 
shells possibly made by Margaret Arnett, late 19th century (1983.0080). 

Susan D. Gould: brown and white plastic donkey with pink inner ears, 1960 
(1983.0206). 

Harry Goz: cap, vest, shirt, and pants worn by Zero Mostel and Mr. Goz in 
Fiddler on the Roof (1983.0345). 

Ellen and Jerry Granat: check filled out and signed by U.S. President Jimmy 
Carter while president of Carters Warehouse, 1960 (1981.0319). 

Victor Greenblatt: Remington Rand adding machine (1982.0474). 

Barbara J. Grinberg: 17 pieces of clothing and accessories including 2, white 
batiste infant's caps, long white cotton infant's dress, pair of white wool 
infant's mitts, quilted white cotton bib, infant's pink coat trimmed with 
floral embroidery, pair of woman's white cotton wedding stockings, 3-piece 
white satin wedding dress, 2-piece silk dress in several shades of purple 
with a pale-pink taffeta, insert, sheer white batiste dress, 2-piece white 
satin wedding dress with leg-of-mutton sleeves, parasol with brown and 
black plaid cover, black taffeta shawl, light-pink crepe shawl, gold silk 
fringed shawl, pair of off-white kid woman's gloves, and a piece of white 
satin (1981.0431); 2 pieces of white silk wedding dress fabric, 19th cen- 
tury (1981.0684). 

Jane Frances Grolig: 78 newspapers containing articles on Charles Lind- 
bergh's flight in 1927, Thomas A. Edison's death in 1931, the George Wash- 
ington Bicentennial in 1932, the flood of 1936 in the eastern U.S., the bomb- 
ing of Pearl Harbor in 1941, the Casablanca Meeting of 1943, and V.E. 
and V.J. Days in 1945 (1982.0342). 

Nicholas Grossman: pair of Zeiss binoculars and a Zeiss Ikon Polytest color 
comparator with a set of 9 sample cells and a set of 3 interference filter 
disks (1983.0056). 

Samuel H. Gurvitz: postcard-ticket for the opening day of the Walt Disney 
World Epcot Center on October 1, 1982, a 3-day Walt Disney World 
Worldpassport ticket stamped October 1 and 2, 1982, and a silver-colored 
envelope for the tickets (1983.0174). 

Hahn Shoes (through William Hahn and Stephen Heller) : 3 pairs of woman's 
tennis shoes and 9 pairs of man's shoes including white Keds and blue 
Footgear tennis shoes, Bass Tacks, Clark's Wallabees, light-brown leather 
workboots, Sperry Top-Siders, Italian black leather loafers, Acme cowboy 
boots, and Florsheim black Ramblers (1979.1004). 

Charles C. Hall: treadle loom and warping reel from West Virginia, 19th 
century (1982.0249). 

Hallmark Cards Incorporated (through Donald J. Hall) : 21 Christmas greeting 
cards made for various U.S. Presidents, 4 Christmas cards designed by Mrs. 
Kennedy in 1963, a 1963 Christmas card ordered, but unsent, by President 
and Mrs. Kennedy, a thank-you note sent by President and Mrs. Johnson 
after the 1963 holidays, and an album which contained the series of 1963 
cards (1982.0679). 

H & S Freezer Food Center (through Henry H. and Sylvia Cohen) : St. Louis 
cash register (1982.0735). 

James A. Hanson: leather side-saddle, early 19th century (1983.0326). 

David- Jon Harrigan: 5 military maps of France and a leather dispatch map 
case, WW I (1977.0864). 

Jean D. Harris: 2 Vera blouses in a bold abstract design, 2 pieces of lingerie, 
a sheer chiffon-like floral print blouse, a pink twill skirt, a dark-green 
dress, and a Cole of California bathing suit (1980.0543). 



602 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Karen Jean Harris: 30 items of woman's clothing from the late 1960s and 
early 1970s including a 2-piece floral micromini, 2-piece pink velveteen 
mini, abstract floral Indian border print dress, 2-piece knit dress in a 
symmetrical geometric print, A-line style knit dress in dark-green with 
printed leaf pattern, yellow linen and silk sleeveless dress, halter dress in 
floral pattern, 4 pairs of trousers, 3 leotards, 3 skirts, 3 paper clothing 
patterns, 2 scarves, 2 pairs of sandals, pair of shoes, pink long sleeved 
shirt, yellow pantsuit, light-blue pinwale corduroy suit, pullover sweater, 
and pair of culottes (1980.0755). 

Michael R. Harris: Judaic advertising calendar. New York, 1953 (1982.0477). 

Elizabeth A. Harrison: woman's 3-piece brown taffeta dress trimmed in 
burgundy velvet made for the 18th birthday of lanna Lore, August 27, 
1972, and a woman's hood of black fiber silk with black ribbons and a 
quilted lining used for sleigh riding, 1860-1910 (1981.0232). 

Marion Bower Harrison: hand-embroidered linen dress worn by Agnes Lee 
Fuller Bower, ca. 1905 (1980.0135). 

Louise W. Haskin: boy's white cotton dress with floral embroidered cuffs, a 
girl's pink cotton dress with short puff sieves, and a girl's sheer white 
cotton sleeveless slip (1981.0374). 

William T. Hassett, Jr.: electrostatic generator (1982.0587). 

Oliver 5. Hayward, M.D.: infant's long white cotton empire-style christening 
gown worn by Nathan Rhyno Smith, born 1797 (1981.0629). 

Byrd C. Hazelton: Voigtlander Koilos camera with case, instruction sheet for 
using a Leudi exposure meter, and a wooden printing frame all used by 
photographer Arnold Genthe (1982.0697). 

Charles A. Heavrin: "Kentucky pattern" felling axe head, 1780-1800, "Yankee 
pattern" felling axe head, 1800-20, and a coachmaker's axe (1983.0228). 

Meryem S. and Raymond J. Hebert: 30 mainly Middle Eastern gold, silver, 
and bronze coins, medals, and a die (1982.0758). 

Margaret J. Hedbring: 11 monetary notes issued during the siege of Palma- 
nova in 1848 (1981.1032). 

Eric Heiden (through Arthur C. Kaminsky) : gold-colored speed skater's rac- 
ing suit worn by Eric Heiden during the Winter Olympics at Lake Placid, 
New York, February 12-23, 1980 (1982.0469). 

Helmet and Horn Antiques (through Arnold Merkitch) : fireman's helmet and 
air tank, 1890s (1983.0182). 

Barry C. and Linda L. Hilbert: 6 trousseau items including 2 chemises, a pair 
of drawers trimmed with lace, a dressing sacque, a nightgown trimmed 
with embroidery and lace, and a white cotton wrapper, all ca. 1884 
(1981.0633). 

Capt. Robert A. Hinners: plated half-model of a 3,000-ton 5" gun cruiser 
made by Captain Hinners and Rear Adm. Philip W. Snyder while Master 
of Science students at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1932 
(1982.0383). 

Betty Hirschfield: 15 pieces of uniform items and clothing worn by Mrs. 
Hirschfield's father while a cadet at Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, 
Virginia, 1909-11 (1982.0422). 

Edward P. Hock on behalf of the Hock Family: 2 cacheted philatelic covers, 
one of which was carried by the Hashknife Gang Sheriff's Posse Pony 
Express Riders, cancelled on February 2, 1982 (1983.0139). 

Eunice L. Hoffman: ship's journal kept by Daniel Noble Johnson of the U.S. 
Navy while aboard the U.S. ship Delaware and the U.S. schooner Enter- 
prise, 1841-42 (1983.0335). 

Arona Hoffmann: dark-brown suede shoes, 1943 (1981.0845). 

John P. Hogan: 4 "T" patches signifying "Remember Tehran" worn by Amer- 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 603 



icans and others in Ouagadougou, Upper Volta while U.S. citizens were 
held hostage in Iran (1982.0625). 

Lillian Marino Holman: blue and white double-woven jacquard coverlet in- 
scribed in two corners "Matilda Gray, 1830, Scipio, N.Y." (1982.0459). 

DeWitt Hornor: 93 etchings, engravings, and drypoint prints (1982.0231). 

Amos C. Hostetler: U.S. Lighthouse Establishment brass oil can (1982.0673). 

Gertrude S. (French) Howalt: 5 pieces of U.S. Navy Reserve Forces Yeoman 
(F) uniform clothing, WW I, 3 non-regulation white blouses, and a scrap- 
book (1983.0159). 

Howard County National Organization for Women Chapter: 3 pamphlets, a 
newspaper, brochure, and card (1981.0658). 

Forrest W. Howard, Ph.D.: belt plate and a leaflet with fire cracker titled 
"Remember the Maine" (1982.0730). 

Hudson Tool & Die Co., Inc., in memory of Charles Batka, Sr. (through W. J. 
Herbert) : number 1V2 cam-operated drawing press manufactured by E. W. 
Bliss Co., ca. 1882, and a plunger adjustment wrench (1982.0300). 

David M. Hufstetler: comic section in color from the Atlanta Constitution 
newspaper dated Sunday, July 7, 1918 (1983.0180). 

Edwin M. Hutchins, Jr. and Jean H. Hutchins: 3 military draft documents of 
Mark Aurelius Atuesta, 1917-18, and a kepi-style cap of the Grand Army 
of the Republic and 14 papers documenting the Civil War military career 
and subsequent pension of William James Spendley, 1863-1920 (1979.0675). 

James S. Hutchins: dress uniform jacket, dress shako with plume, bathrobe, 
sweater, and shirt worn by Mr. Hutchins while a cadet at the U.S. Military 
Academy, 1942-46 (1982.0520). 

Illinois Central Gulf Railroad (through William J. Taylor) : original photo- 
graph of a Chicago and Alton Limited train photographed with a mural- 
sized camera by George R. Lawrence in 1901 and framed with 7 smaller 
photographs of interior and exterior scenes (1983.0197). 

Helen Ann Immitti: banjo ukelele labeled "Bruno, New York" (1982.0204). 

The International Barbie Doll Collectors Club (through Ruth R. Cronk) : 
"Beauty Secrets Barbie" doll made by Mattel, Inc., 1980 (1982.0063). 

Dotty Jacobs: framed photograph of Presidents Lincoln and Garfield with the 
caption "Our Martyred Presidents" (1982.0039). 

Grace V. Jakubowski: lighting arrestor (1982.0608). 

The Bank of Japan, Coordination Division, Cash Department (through Y. 
Tanahashi) : 2 500-yen coins of cupro-nickel issued April 1, 1982 (1982. 
0212). 

Jitneymen's Association of Atlantic City (through Domenic F. Cappella and 
Bruce O'Malley) : jitney bus made by International Harvester, 1963 (1982. 
0574). 

Betsy Jochum: uniform dress, bloomers, socks, shoes, a pair of sliding pads, 
baseball glove, autographed baseball, souvenir pen, and a set of 2 rule 
books all used by Ms. Jochum while playing with the South Bend Blue 
Sox team of the Ail-American Girl's Baseball League, 1943-48, and a 1951 
schedule, pass card, and contract (1983.0183). 

Edward J. Johannemann: 12 U.S. Navy officer's uniform items and insignia, 
a metal box marked "C. T. Hull" which contained some of the objects, ca. 
1913, and a U.S. Navy officer's chapeau with feather plume, 1850-66 
(1983.0129). 

Charles E. Johnson: pressed-glass saucer inscribed "Gladstone, For The 
Million" used in a British political campaign, 19th century (1982.0678). 

Mrs. Dorothy T. Johnson: 2 electro-therapeutic machines, a hand-held x-ray 
viewer, "Sinustat" sinusodal machine, neuro-pulse generator, "Burdick" 



604 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



rhythmic constrictor, brain-wave synchronizer, and an "Aloesonic" treat- 
ment machine (1982.0306). 

Louis M. Jones: baggy pants and red suspenders worn by country-western 
entertainer Grandpa Jones (1982.0239). 

The Juilliard School (through Charles C. Lucas, Jr., and Peter Mennin) : piano 
made by A. Babcock of Boston, Massachusetts between 1822 and 1829 
possibly used in the White House during the administration of President 
John Quincy Adams (1982.0434). 

Alvin R. and Marjorie S. Kantor: undivided lO^/o interest of the Benjamin 
Franklin General Post Office Account written entirely in Franklin's own 
hand and including 8 of his signatures, 1770-72 (1982.0786). 

Joan E. Kaufman: poster of the Hagerstown Mollys All-Girl Baseball Club 
of 1954 (1982.0401). 

Nancy H. Keiser: 3 50-cent and a 75-cent unissued Merchant's Scrip, ca. 1837 
(1981.0046). 

Kenneth Kendall: painted plaster life mask of James Dean (1983.0104). 

Frances H. and Roger G. Kennedy: 11 pieces of porcelain dinner service 
manufactured by Noritake Co., Nogoya, Japan, 1962-66, which are a later 
edition of the service designed by Frank Lloyd Wright for the Imperial 
Hotel in Tokyo, ca. 1922 (1981.1084). 

Verna Rudd Kenvin and Joan W. Smith: 12 pieces of American paper money 
including Colonial, Continental, Confederate, U.S. legal tender and frac- 
tional papers, and State Bank Notes from Connecticut and the District of 
Columbia (1982.0594); letter dated April 15, 1831 to Dr. A. P. Beers, U.S. 
Navy, from Captain Isaac Chauncey, commandant of the New York Navy 
Yard, and an envelope addressed to Mrs. C. M. Beers (1983.0003). 

Claudia B. Kidwell: 11 toys and games used in the 1960s and 1970s (1982. 
0769). 

Gene W. Kijowski: hand-forged wrought iron cooper's cresset (1982.0640); 
cooper's V-iron croze plane, 18th century, and a roofer's hatchet copper, 
probably 19th century (1983.0185). 

H. J. Klapmeyer: 2 cotton shirts and a field jacket of U.S. Army make issued 
to U.S. Naval Air Cadets, \NW II (1983.0014). 

Frank E. Klapthor: 6 items of woman's clothing including 2 fur scarves, wool 
coat trimmed with fur, ermine and silk cape, ermine muff and a pair of 
gold brocade shoes (1980.0064); fragment of Fortuny fabric (1982.0458). 

Norma G. Kline: 2-piece pantsuit, 2-piece dress, and a beige quilted bag all 
designed by Mary McFadden, a brown and white textured bag by Gucci, 
and a multicolored scarf by Teal Traina (1980.0383). 

Robert Lee Klinger: veteran's cap of WW I worn by Aubrey Allen Klinger 
(1982.0560). 

Nelly G. Knight: 7 tintypes, 2 photographic prints, a daguerreotype, and a 

handwritten diary (1982.0771). 

Ronald A. KoUbeck: man's roll-type grey felt hat, ca. 1965, and a set of 
man's garters with a navy blue band, ca. 1945 (1981.0432). 

Evelyn Hecht Kramer: 2 French fencing foils, a carrying bag for foils, a 
fencing trophy, and a white fencing uniform including face mask, jacket, 
and pants, all used by Mrs. Kramer while a member of the Women's Fenc- 
ing Club of George Washington University in the 1940s (1983.0079). 

Gerald E. Kron, Ph.D.: astronomical electronic camera (1982.0404); quartz 
potassium-hydride photocell made by Jakob Kuntz for Joel Stebbins's work 
at Lick Observatory in the mid-1920s (1982.0623). 

Labor Institute of Public Affairs (through Gwenn K. Kelly) : 2 videotape 
cassettes, 2 audio tape reels, and a set of press releases for the advertising 
campaign "Unemployment's Up and I'm Down" (1982.0677). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 605 



Blanche B. and Jeffrey B. Lake: 15 blueprints and drawings of submarines by 

Simon Lake 1913-41 (1983.0055). 
David Lampe: bumper sticker "Free Dr. Mudd" (1983.0113). 
David K. Lander: U.S. 84th Colored Infantry regimental flag from the Civil 

War period (1982.0379). 
Margaret D. R. Langdon (through Anne R. Langdon) : beige silk petticoat 
possibly vvmorn by Sarah Saunders Hartshorne, 1760-99, and a woman's 
handkerchief of sheer linen, 1800-50 (1981.0024). 
John P. Langellier: U.S. rifleman button, ca. 1960, and a web belt, ca. 1977 

(1982.0134). 
Margaret R. Lawrence: 3-piece white satin wedding dress trimmed with lace, 
pearls, and pearl drops and a white veil worn by Caroline Summer Case 
Freeman at her wedding in 1888 (1981.0479). 
James R. Lee: drumstick and ticket from a West, Bruce and Laing concert in 

1973 and 4 phonorecords (1981.0591). 
John C. Leeds, Jr., and Mary E. Leeds: Troughton of London refractor tele- 
scope with a tripod head and accessories (1983.0088). 
Lehigh University, Department of Chemistry (through G. Doyle Davis, Jr.): 
Jarrell-Ash model 70-15e automatic spectrograph (1982.0643); Department 
of Civil Engineering, Fritz Engineering Laboratory (through Prof. Roger G. 
Slutter) : Pelton water wheel and nozzle, Pelton impulse turbine motor, and 
a Francis turbine model (1982.0562). 
George E. and Jackie Lenko: 2 buttons "I'm a Beatle Booster" and "Member 

Beatles Fan Club" (1983.0318). 
Lens Chemical Corporation (through W. Jeffrey Culbert) : World Labeller 

Model S machine for labelling glass bottles, 1904 (1983.0188). 
Grace C. and Walter Leonard: Erika portable typewriter made by Seidel & 

Naumann of Dresden, Germany, post-1927 (1982.0202). 
Mrs. Marcella Leonard: black velvet theatrical costume and a pink costume 

with sequins, a matching cuff, and a headband (1982.0577). 
Erminia C. Leonardo (through Ercole Leonardo): 50-star U.S. flag (1982.0571); 
6 uniform items, 3 pins, and an identification badge from WW I, a menu 
from the USS New Orleans dated Februard 15, 1934, and a National Yeo- 
men (F) membership card, 1973, all related to the career of U.S. Navy 
Yeoman (F) Erminia C. Leonardo (1982.0590). 
Dr. Harry Lepman: 4 handouts, 2 broadsides, an announcement, and a sticker 

(269634). 
Sara L. Lepman: Ernemann camera in leather case (1982.0773). 
Mrs. Stewart Lindsay: ticket to the funeral services of President Warren G. 
Harding, who died August 2, 1923, and a program for a memorial service 
at Westminster Abbey for Harding (1983.0274). 
Elisabeth Lineaweaver: porcelain vase with owl faces carved into pedestal 

feet made by Adelaide Alsop Robineau, ca. 1915 (1981.1029). 
Lions International (through Dennis Brennan) : 2 plaques titled "Lions Code 
of Ethics" and "Lions Club Objects," and a "Lions International" sign 
(1982.0797). 
Frank Lary Lipshultz: gold 8-escudo coin bearing a portrait of Philip V of 

Spain struck at the Lima mint in 1704 (1982.0800). 
Estate of Eleanor Hoffman Livingston (through Mary Livingston Ripley and 
S. Dillon Ripley) : Brewster-style hand-held wooden stereoscope made by 
Unis-France Stereoscopes of Paris, ca. 1920 (1978.1033). 
Robert Loeffler, M.D., and Vera Loeffler: blue-amber glass box made by 

Howard Ben Tre, Providence, Rhode Island, ca. 1978 (1981.0380). 
Albert M. Lopez: Leica Illf synchronized 35-mm camera with self-timer, ca. 
1951, a Leica Illf 35-mm camera, ca. 1955, Prado Leitz 250 miniature pro- 



606 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



jector, ca. 1950, and a Wollensak 9-mm wide-angle Cine Raptor lens, all 

in cases with various accessories (1983.0222). 
Jack and Marie Lord: 16 color progressives for Jean Chariot's lithograph 

Hawaiian Swimmer for Picture Book II (1983.0059). 
Barbara Brooks Lotz: 2-piece brown faille wedding dress and a silk hat worn 

by Hattie Hubbard Kay in 1892 (1980.0190). 
Roberta A. McAllister: 28 insignia, 10 uniform clothing items, and a duffle 

bag from the U.S. Army career of Ms. McAllister (1983.0081). 
William L. McCaughey: distinctive insignia from the Defense Language 

School of the Presidio of Monterey, California, worn by Mr. McCaughey, 

1967-68 (1982.0373). 
Col. J. B. McGurk: preassignment orders for Mobilization Day for Retired 

Regular Army Officers, 1982 (1982.0376). 
Mary T. MacKesey: black crocheted headdress worn by Susanna Hans Donini, 

1880-99 (1981.0920). 
Nadya Makovenyi: 18 medals, 13 patches, and a trophy from various riflery 

competitions; 2 bowling patches and a "G W" emblem (1982.0615). 
Alice Reno Malone: red plastic "Hula Hoop" made by the Wham-o Manu- 
facturing Co., ca. 1958 (1982.0578); 33 phonorecords, 2 gym suits, and a 

sweatshirt (1982.0620). 
Marble Collector's Society of America (through Claire W. and Stanley A. 

Block): razor sharpener (1981.1031). 
R. Markey & Sons, Inc. (through Hugh A. Markey) : A-frame scale used to 

weigh coffee and sugar upon entry into port, ca. 1900 (1982.0588). 
Donna Markus: 6 pieces of ingrain carpeting, 3 carpet bags, and a piece of 

Brussels tapestry carpeting (1980.0779). 
Martin Surfacing & Decking, Inc. (through Gerald L. Bosse) : 3 samples of 

"Versaturf 360" athletic surfacing (1983.0316). 
Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlow Martin: cast-iron baseburner-type parlor heating 

stove with isinglass panels and nickel, copper, and brass decorations made 

by the Detroit Stove Works, late 19th century (1982.0633). 
John Russell Mason: melodeon made by Estey and Green of Brattleboro, Ver- 
mont, ca. 1856 (1982.0293). 
John C. Mathes: white wedding gown with a pearl and silver-beaded chiffon 

cap worn by Cletus Fagan Mathes on December 27, 1929 (1981.0795). 
Margot Bell Maw: man's navy blue knit bathing suit worn by Col. J. Franklin 

Bell, ca. 1905 (1981.0797). 
Vera Maxwell, Inc. (through Vera Maxwell) : brown A-line kick-pleat skirt 

by Vera Maxwell (1982.0527). 
George E. Mayakis: 6 commemorative medals (1982.0703). 
Medical and Chirurgical Faculty of the State of Maryland (through Dr. Arthur 

T. Keefe, Jr. and Dr. Paul A. Mullan) : 443 medical instruments (302606). 
The Medical Society of the County of Kings and The Academy of Medicine 

of Brooklyn, Inc. (through Norman S. Blackman, M.D.) : medical kit with 

22 instruments in a mahogany case used by attending physicians while 

conducting an autopsy of President Abraham Lincoln on April 15, 1865 

(1983.0051). 
Eliza and Gertrude Merrill: white coat worn by Enoch Merrill, 1810-28 

(1981.0796). 
Bertrand H. Merwin: 2 shield-back side chairs possibly from Charleston, 

South Carolina, ca. 1800 (1982.0651). 
J. George Midgley: set of 5 bromoil transfer prints (1983.0007). 
Midwest Old Settlers and Threshers Association (through Helen M. Virden) : 

3 news clippings from the Des Moines Sunday Register and a program 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 607 



dated 1918 concerning the adult education Chautauqua movement in Iowa 
(285169). 

Caroline Benes Miller: candle holder brought from Bohemia in 1882 and a 
meerschaum pipe carved in the shape of an eagle's talon used by Josef 
Benes, prior to WW I (1982.0767). 

Deborah K. and Michael J. Miller: 5 Royal Crown Cola cans with pictures of 
baseball players Joe Rudi, Ron Cey, Cesar Cedeno, Gene Tenace, and Butch 
Wynegar (1982.0472). 

Dorothea S. Miller: 4 pairs of gloves, 4 handkerchiefs, 2 coats, 2 hats, 2 sets 
of cuff links, 2 sets of vest studs, 2 sets of shirt studs, 2 boxes, 2 vests, 2 
neckties, 2 collars, a suit, shirt, accessory case, pair of socks, button hook, 
set of suspenders, cigarette holder, and a glass boutonniere, all worn and 
used by Frank Miller (1979.0383). 

Edward R. Miller: set of 4 photographs taken by Mr. Miller (1983.0013). 

Milton Bradley Company (through Millens W. Taft, Jr.) : boxed game, "The 
Game of Life," ca. 1979, developed in 1960 by Reuben Klamer, an inventor, 
and Bill Markham, co-inventor (1981.0911); 2 boxed games, "Game of 
Life," ca. 1960, developed by Reuben Klamer, an inventor, and Bill Mark- 
ham, co-inventor, and an original version of the game invented by Milton 
Bradley in 1860, "The Checkered Game of Life," ca. 1910 (1981.0944). 

Christine Minter-Dowd: Qiana nylon scarf printed with sketches of Old 
Town, Alexandria, dated 1979, and a cotton scarf printed with a design in 
honor of the Bicentennial of the American Revolution dated 1976, both 
designed by Frankie Welch (1981.0122). 

Christopher S. and Nancy M. Moffitt: child's brown cotton dress, 1825-35 
(1981.0809). 

Ruth Cotton Mommessin: woman's purple satin formal gown by Lanvin and 
a girl's white cotton dress decorated with openwork (1981.0067). 

Albert E. Montague: Premograph single-lens reflex plate camera with case 
(1982.0554). 

Joe Moore: 2 insignia, one with metallic block letters "U.S." and the other 
with a metallic eagle (1982.0132). 

Jesslyn Morse, M.T.: anti-venom snake bite kit manufactured by the Monarch 
Drug Co. of San Diego, California, 1910-20 (1982.0351). 

Ruth V. Morse: boy's red, white, and blue plaid cotton dress worn by Charles 
Vezin, Jr. (1981.0371). 

Lt. Col. William B. Mozey, Jr.: pair of wooden roller skates (1982.0509). 

Wm. P. Murphy, Jr., M.D.: 1,762 linen tracings of machinery produced by 
the Corliss Steam Engine Co. and its successors, mid-19th to early 20th 
century, (1982.0784). 

Mrs. John H. Murray: woman's 2-piece knit dress by Leslie Fay, ca. 1970 
(1980.0868); 17 examples of white ironstone tableware, 5 pieces of Ameri- 
can pressed pattern glass including a "Nellie Bly" platter, ceramic plate by 
Wedgewood depicting "The Old North Bridge" of Concord, Massachusetts, 
and a Rockingham-glazed earthenware bowl (1981.1037); chromolithograph 
Li by Guth dated 1896 (1982.0242); porcelain-and-cloth doll marked 
"Helen" manufactured by Butler Bros., early 20th century (1982.0416). 

Ann B. and James C. Muth: infant's off-white wool winter baptismal coat, 

1890-1910 (1981.0373). 
Constance A. Myers: 2 pamphlets and a circular concerning women's rights 

(1981.0885). 
Susan H. Myers: 8 examples of U.S. ceramics including 2 turquoise-glazed 
plates, a mug, soap dish, stacking device for jugs in a kiln, advertising jug, 
advertising ash tray, and a sugar bowl with cover (1981.1040). 



608 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Mrs. John Myrdek: song book for Christmas and Easter written in Ukrainian 
Slavic, 19th century (1982.0219). 

Dr. Perham C. Nahl: 214 U.S. domestic first flight air mail covers from 
C.A.M. routes 4 and 11 and A.M. routes 73, 86, 97, and 98 (1982.0775). 

National Conservative Political Action Committee (through Mike Murphy) 
2 videotape cassettes of television commercials (1982.0654). 

National Organization for Women (through Judy Goldsmith) : 2 videotape 
cassettes of television commercials (1982.0626). 

National Republican Congressional Committee (through Edward N. Blakely, 
Jr., and Lawrence J. Holloran) : 2 videotape cassettes of the 1981 and 1982 
television campaigns (1983.0132). 

National Society Children of the American Revolution (through James H. 
Johnson) : 8 pieces of 19-century Quaker clothing including 2 woman's 
caps, a dark-grey silk bonnet, a dark-green silk bonnet cover, a dark-grey 
taffeta dress, a 2-piece brown taffeta dress, a man's tan and white gingham 
handkerchief, and a woman's white linen handkerchief (1980.0591); 2 
woman's parasols, black silk and white silk, 1875-1900, a white cotton 
nightgown with embroidered cuffs and collar, 1850-70, brooch made with 
silk and hair, 1850-90, and a box which contained the brooch (1981.0560). 

Hal Needham: Budweiser rocket car, the first land vehicle to break the sound 
barrier in an unofficial run at Edwards Air Force Base, California, on De- 
cember 17, 1979, via transference of 50 shares of Speed of Sound, Inc. stock, 
the entire outstanding interest in the company whose only asset was the 
rocket car (1982.0648). 

Mortimer L. Neinken: 112 ancient coins from Judaea and neighboring areas 
(1979.1159); 22 coins, 5 weights, and a tessera of ancient Greek and Roman 
manufacture (1982.0787). 

Alice Newell: set of 28 family photographs (1982.0772). 

Andrew A. Nilles: woman's 2-piece black and orange wool print dress, 1860- 
69, and a woman's black silk apron (1981.0573). 

Ens. Douglas B. Nordman: U.S. Naval Academy full-dress uniform blouse 
and trousers with the insignia of the USNA Drum and Bugle Corps, 1982 
(1982.0669). 

Emery May Holden Norweb in memory of Dr. Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli: 52 
silver, copper, and lead Colonial American coins (1982.0798). 

Norman S. Novack: "Philadelphia Tricentennial 1682-1982" button (1982. 
0467). 

Helen McK. Oakley: woman's organdy formal dress worn by Mrs. Helen 
Fairchild McKelvey, 1948-52 (1981.0026). 

J. G. Olson: 38 Byzantine, Ottoman, Greco-Roman, and Crusader coins, 
tokens, and sealings made mainly of lead (1982.0759); 35 Islamic bronzes 
(1982.0760). 

John W. Olson: woman's mink coat lined with brown satin by Ransohoffs, 
1940-45 (1980.0665). 

Capt. and Mrs. Noel Sever O'Reilly: 19th-century boxwood flute made in 
London by Henry Potter with a period case of walnut (1982.0719). 

Ralph Oswald: International Union Representative identification card, 1969, 
and a membership card in the International Union of Operating Engineers, 
1980-81 (1982.0792). 

Betty J. Ourisman: 11 pieces of woman's clothing including 2 two-piece 
crepe dresses by Chloe, a bright-green wool Galanos coat, 3-piece multi- 
colored wool and silk dress by Galanos, 2-piece tan wool Ralph Lauren 
pantsuit, Ralph Lauren Argyle sweater, beige silk crepe blouse by Frank 
Olivier, 2-piece rust knit dress by Courreges, 4-piece abstract-print chiffon 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 609 



dress by Zandra Rhodes, long black silk dress by Holly's Harp, and a 
2-piece long white wool dress by Norell (1981.0345). 

Dr. E. C. Page: Marconi wireless receiver, ca. 1912, with headphones and a 
crystal detector (1981.0082). 

Gust W. and Robby Pagonis: 5 Royal Crown Cola cans with pictures of 
sportsmen Doyle Alexander, Johnny Bench, Jim Chones, Tony Perez, and 
Jake Scott (1982.0470). 

Mildred R. Palmer: pair of man's black leather boots, pair of heather biege 
wool socks, man's dark-green and white checked wool shirt, all worn by 
G. E. Palmer, and a woman's 2-piece beige, brown, and green plaid wool 
Davidow suit and a green crepe blouse worn by Mildred R. Palmer (1980. 
0192); bracelet, brooch, and a brooch with a watch worn by Mrs. Palmer 
during the 1920s (1982.0437). 

Richard L. Palmer: scrapbook kept by Ruth Timmons while a college sorority 
member, 1925-31 (1982.0576). 

Elmerina L. and Dr. Paul D. Parkman: glass sculpture titled Veiled Form by 
Sylvia B. Vigiletti, Southfield, Michigan, 1981 (1981.1081). 

Martha M. Patrick: Handel Company electric table lamp with a stained glass 
globe and a Tiffany Studios metal candlestick with an opaque green glass 
cup (1980.0794). 

Christe and Otto J. Patzau: grand piano with inscription "L. A. Vogel priv. 
Mobilfabrik Pest," from Budapest, Hungary, ca. 1815 (1982.0740). 

Mrs. J. C. Pearce (through Mrs. Virginia H. Yates) : pair of white elbow- 
length kid gloves worn by Mrs. J. C. Pearce at her wedding in August, 
1914 (1981.0468). 

Dr. Sidney A. Peerless: 2 Roman imperial coins including a denarius "Tribute 
Penny" of Tiberius, A.D. 14-37, and a sestertius of Nero, A.D. 54-68 
(1982.0779); 2 tetradrachms struck in the Greek city of Syracuse, Sicily, in 
the early 5th century B.C. (1982.0780); 24 tetradrachms struck in the Greek 
city of Messana, Sicily, in the early 5th century B.C. (1982.0781); 15 tetra- 
drachms struck in the Greek city of Messana, Sicily, in the middle of the 
5th century B.C. (1982.0782); 3 tetradrachms struck in the Greek city of 

Messana, Sicily, in the middle of the 5th century B.C. and a tetradrachm 

struck in the city of Rhegium, Magna Graecia, in the early 5th century 
B.C. (1982.0783). 

Pamela Day Pelletreau: woman's long ermine cloak lined with turquoise 
velvet worn by Lotawana Plateau Nims, 1923-25 (1981.0164). 

Anna Peluso: tablecloth of synthetic fabric with traditional Italian cutwork 
made by Mrs. Peluso in 1981 (1983.0178). 

Allen J. Perry: salesman's suitcase used in selling the Bartlett drafting system 
containing 150 broadsides, a 53-piece drafting tool set, 45 contracts, 3 
pattern drafts, and an advertising sign, ca. 1892 (1980.0381). 

Roy Perry: silver print photograph of a store in the Bowery area of New 
York City taken by Mr. Perry in August 1939 (1983.0009). 

M. Peterson: 1743 sou marque of Canada recovered from the wreck site of 

the French frigate St. Ceran, which sank in 1744 (1982.0705). 
Robert B. Picking: Swiss cheese kettle, ca. 1917, and an apple butter kettle, 
ca. 1982, both made of copper and iron with iron stands by D. Picking & 
Co., Bucyrus, Ohio (1982.0599). 
Clarice Pierce: metal and wood soap saver, 1930s (1982.0694). 
Grace B. and Homer G. Pierce: roulette-like choza gambling table-top from 

New Mexico, 1860-1910 (1983.0022). 
Janice Plowman: 17 pieces of sheet music and 2 report cards dated 1897 and 

1915-16 (1982.0736). 
Arent Pol: 2 coins commemorating the abdication of Queen Juliana issued 



610 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



in 1980 and 2 coins of a new series issued in 1982, all from the Nether- 
lands (1982.0276). 

Polish American Numismatic Association (through Arthur Marquart) : 2 
Millennium, 2 Copernicus, and 2 Pulaski commemorative medallions (1981. 
0044). 

Constance Potter: poster with "No Nukes" slogan on a short yellow stick 
(1982.0340). 

William L. Pringle: Seneca No. 9 camera (1983.0065). 

Professional Pool Players Association (through Albert Balukas) : set of 16 
billiard balls and a wooden billiard rack used by Jean Balukas when she 
won the Women's World Champion Pocket Billiards title in 1982 (1983. 
0184). 

The Queen and Her Court (through Royal Beaird) : poster, souvenir booklet, 
and a softball and bat autographed by The Queen and Her Court comedy 
Softball team (1983.0315). 

Edward Allen and Martin N. Rasmussen: reflecting telescope made by Martin 
N. Rasmussen between 1931 and 1936 including 2-star diagonals, 2 eye- 
pieces, an accessory lens, and an adapter (1982.0789). 

Ann M. Rauscher: certificate and patch for the Presidential Physical Fitness 
Award, 1972 (1982.0559). 

Raybestos Brakettes (through Joseph P. Barber) : wood and metal trophy 
won by the Raybestos Brakettes at the 1975 American Softball Association 
World Championship (1983.0046); 2 Raybestos Brakettes uniforms from 
the 1950s and 1980s, one worn by team member Kathy Arendsen (1983. 
0295). 

Thomas McT. S. Raysor, Jr.: ticket for a rally and speech by President Rea- 
gan concerning the Balanced Budget Amendment, July 19, 1982 (1982.0476). 

Republican National Committee (through Kathryn Mattoon) : 2 videotape 
cassettes of the 1982 television campaign (1983.0130). 

Dr. R. Kurt Retrum in memory of Obert S. Retrum: field desk marked 
"Headquarters, Army of the Potomac, Records" possibly used by Gen. 
George B. McClellan during the Civil War (1983.0248). 

Oscar W. Richards, Ph.D.: drawing apparatus with 12 lenses and a case for 
use with a microscope (1982.0429). 

Harriet C. Riddile: Red Cross volunteer uniform, a white headpiece, and a 
headpiece with a navy blue veil, WW II (1981.0785). 

Riley Associates (through Paul F. Riley): WW II naval aircraft camera and 
processing unit (1981.0962). 

Joseph E. Riley: booklet titled ]oe Worker and the Story of Labor (1980.0792). 

Mrs. H. R. Rinehart: group of 6 daguerreotypes (1983.0012). 

F. E. Ringe, Jr., and Rosemary A. Ringe: wooden tourist cabin building with 
20 pieces of furnishings, 4 signs, and a privy building used from the 
1930s to the 1950s (1983.0179). 

Mary Livingston Ripley: New Home treadle sewing machine, ca. 1920 
(1982.0156). 

S. Dillon Ripley: medal commemorating the bicentennial of the Government 
Palace, now the City Museum, in Havana, Cuba, 1976 (1981.0096); York- 
town Bicentennial commemorative medal, 1781-1981, struck by the Franklin 
Mint (1982.0378). 

Stanley Q. Rodbell and Arnold D. Wolfe: folding bed, a folding table and 
2 benches in a door frame with double doors made for the Gwenwood 
Apartment House, Washington, D.C., built in 1938 (1981.0776). 
Sophie Rofofsky: boy's khaki-colored twill coat called an "Eisenhower 
jacket," worn by Gary Rofofsky, 1945-47 (1981.0233). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 611 



Carol A. Rolle and Susan J. Taylor: 2 pairs of stockings, a pink knit T-shirt, 

white shorts, and exercise shoes (1982.0066). 
Hazelle H. and J. Woodson Rollins: puppet stage used by Hazelle Rollins 

from the 1930s through the 1970s (1982.0558). 
Clara G. Romero: 2 booklets titled Proposed Executive Mansion published in 

March, 1898, and Washington Our Nation's Capital published in 1907 by 

L. H. Nelson Co. of Portland, Maine (1983.0166). 
Mrs. A. K. Rose: number 3 folding rollfilm camera with case made by Ansco 

(1982.0553). 
Samuel J. Rosenberg: number 3, model F folding pocket rollfilm camera made 

by Kodak (1982.0552). 
Irving Rosenzweig: 197 coins of ancient Greece and the Greek colonies 

(1981.1018). 
Ruth E. Rothschild: woman's 3-piece white satin dress trimmed in ecru lace 

worn by Rachel Cohen, 1850-93, and a pair of woman's white leather shoes, 

1840-69 (1981.0230). 
Harry Rubenstein: matchbook bearing the slogans "Strike a Light for Liberty" 

and "Right to Work is a Must in New Mexico" (1983.0293). 
Rubin Brothers Waste Company (through Bruce S. Bazelon) : 8 U.S. Marine 

Corps, U.S. Coast Guard, and U.S. Navy uniform items (1983.0240). 
Rutgers University, Rutgers University Libraries, Department of Special 

Collections and Archives (through Ruth J. Simmons) : copy of a photograph 

of Washington A. Roebling and an engraved profile portrait of Mr. 

Roebling prepared by the National Cyclopedia of American Biography 

(1982.0479). 
Helen A. S. Ryan: 2 three-piece vanity sets and a photograph of the Prahar 

decorating shop (1982.0407). 
John W. Ryan, Jr.: U.S. Army overseas garrison-style enlisted man's green 

wool cap (1981.0033); "Mendets" kit for repairing leaks in metalware and 

rubber goods, early 20th century (1982.0299). 
Luann Ryon: silver trophy plate won by Ms. Ryon at the Federation Inter- 
nationale de Terre I'Arc World Championship held in Canberra, Australia, 

in 1977 (1982.0627). 
Michael M. Salerno: prison shirt with "May 1975, James W. McCord, Jr." 

written across a pocket flap (1982.0507). 
Geraldine B. Sanderson: pair of girl's black patent leather Mary Jane-style 

shoes and a navy blue denim quilted jacket, 1975-76 (1981.0183). 
Joseph J. Sandler: 2 carved-wooden bookends each representing a cowboy 

drinking at a bar (1983.0149). 
Adolfo T. Sardina: red wool coat with satin lining and a matching wreath- 
style hat by Adolfo, as worn by Mrs. Ronald Reagan at the inauguration 

ceremony of President Reagan, January 20, 1981 (1981.0293). 
Eric A. Saul: Massachusetts Militia uniform coatee, 19th century (1982.0699). 
August K. Scheele: 36 football cards (1982.0621). 
Clara G. Schiffer: page 909 from Harper's Bazaar of November 28, 1868, with 

an article titled "Why Should We Not Vote?" (1983.0276). 
Lee-lee Schlegel: sleeveless wool knit sweater, WW I (1982.0622). 
Robert Jos. Schurk: 8 posters supporting ERA and disclaiming draft registra- 
tion and communists (1982.0314). 
Jacqueline Mallio Sciales: plastic identification tag worn by Mrs. Sciales in 

2d grade at a New York City public school, 1942 (1983.0314). 
Sy Seidman: 6 ambrotypes, 3 daguerreotypes, 2 tintypes, a photograph on 

milk or opal glass, and a box of miscellaneous photographic apparatus, 

clippings, and booklets (1983.0144). 
Susan A. Shaffer: poster depicting a slot machine (1982.0494). 

612 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Ron Shapiro: envelope and letter on official stationery signed by Adm. W. S. 
Benson, U.S. Navy, the first Chief of Naval Operations (1983.0194). 

Scott Shaw: 7 autographs on cards of baseball players Earl Averill, James 
Bell, Johnny Bench, Lou Boudreau, Ron Cey, Reggie Jackson, and Johnny 
Mize (1983.0102). 

Mrs. Allan Sherman: Cine-Kodak model A, 16-mm, crank-operated motion 
picture camera (1983.0017). 

Joseph F. Shores: white silk handkerchief and a pair of off-white kid gloves 
used by Joseph Ingle at his wedding, ca. 1820, and 2 pieces of fabric, one 
from the wedding dress and the other from the "second day" dress of 
Mary Ingle, 1825 (1981.0251). 

Shirley E. Siebert: 2 Camp Vail newspapers, a Camp Vail souvenir booklet, 
entrenching shovel, and a Private 1st Class insignia (1978.2501). 

Joseph S. Simms, Jr.: woman's cotton wrapper with a brown printed design 
on an off-white ground, 1877-87 (1981.0742). 

George W. Sims: 3 bicentennial commemorative plates and a hand-painted 
plate with a portrait of a woman (1981.0724). 

Frank Sinatra: 2 bow ties worn by Frank Sinatra, ca. 1942 (1982.0512). 

Vijai Pal Singh, M.D.: 7 postally used covers with stamps from the Indian 
Feudatory States of Bhor, Charkhari, Duttia, Nandgaon, and Wadhwan 
(1982.0660). 

Nancy Brenner Sinnott: final edition of the Washington Star newspaper, 
Washington, D.C., dated Friday, August 7, 1981 (1981.0695). 

Charlotte and Edgar H. Sittig: brass stencil with cutout letters "D. W. 
ROTHERMEL" made by F. H. Paff of Reading, Pennsylvania, ca. 1850, and 
a brass stencil with cutout letters "BAYOULABATRE, ALA." made by 
Southern Stamp & Stationery Co., of Richmond, Virginia, ca. 1850 (1982. 
0632). 

Marjorie N. Smith: woman's striped wrapper of white cotton, 1900-5 (1980. 
0867). 

Robert J. Smith: 5 insignia, a khaki cap, and an identification tag (1983.0352). 

Smithsonian Institution, Business Management Office, Mail Order Division 
(through Ann McClellen Miller): 5 tumblers, a pitcher, a compote, and 
compote with cover in the Broken Column pattern, late 19th century, 2 
celery vases, 1820-40, and a reproduction of a Broken Column tumbler, 
1980 (1981.0085); (through Luna Lambert): reproduction of an 18th-century 
Meissen "Flying Squirrel" leaf-shaped tray made by Lenox China, Inc., 1981 
(1981.0862). 

Smithsonian Institution, Smithsonian Institution Libraries, Office of Collec- 
tion Development and Collection Management (through Jack Goodwin) : 
61 original manuscript and printed pages from various books, 14th century 
through 18th century (1981.0253). 

The Smith-VVorthington Saddlery Co. (through Curtis Hanks): saddletree, ca. 
1920 (1982.0663). 

Society for the Preservation of Long-Island Antiquities (through Robert B. 
MacKay, Ph.D.): 23 scroll-sawn wooden artifacts (1982.0049). 

The Society of Medalists (through Donald A. Schwartz) : bronze medal por- 
traying Ronald Reagan and George Bush with the inscription "A New 
Beginning," November 4, 1980 (1983.0257); 5 bronze medals issued by The 
Society of Medalists, issues 99, 100, 102, 103, and 104 (1983.0260). 

Janet W. Solinger: untitled airbrush stencil print with birds, flowers, and a 

butterfly by William E. Hentschel, pre-1944 (1983.0071). 
South African Mint (through J. J. Groenewald) : 7 coins composing a 1982 

proof set of South African coins (1983.0264). 

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 613 



Margaret B. Southwick: child's blue and white striped cotton dress, 1860-69 
(1981.0372). 

Diana and Neil P. Sowards: 957 specimens of U.S. stocks and bonds (1980. 
0960). 

Arabella S. Sparnon: concert harp with original trunk made in the early 
20th century by Rudolph Wurlitzer Company (1982.0739). 

James E. Spears: oval-shaped photographic print (1983.0118). 

Virginia B. Spicer: 40 theatrical programs and 8 pieces of sheet music 
(1982.0745). 

Dr. Athelstan Spilhaus: electric space clock showing local time, world time, 
and astronomical positions designed by Dr. Spilhaus and manufactured by 
Edmund Scientific Company of Barrington, New Jersey, ca. 1964 (1982.0519). 

Springbrook High School (through Robert Milloy) : 3 football-shaped patches 
with the emblem "Maryland State Champions/Springbrook," 1979-81 
(1982.0616). 

Benjamin, Harvey G., and Norman Stack: ancient bronze coin of Scylletium, 
possibly 4th century B.C. (1979.1067); 210 silver coins of Tabaristan struck 
during the 8th century A.D. (1980.0887) ; 171 silver half-dirhems of Tabaris- 
tan struck in the names of Umar and Sa'id, several of which were previ- 
ously unknown (1980.0888); 95 silver coins of Tabaristan struck in the 
names of Hani and Unqatil including some previously unlisted, unique 
pieces (1980.0891); 30 half-dirhems struck with the names of Abbasid 
Governors of Tabaristan (1980.0893); 95 silver coins of Tabaristan all 
bearing the Pehlevi word "AFZUT" and including several coins struck in 
the name of Jarir, A.D. 787 (1980.0894); Washington half-dollar of 1792 
made of copper with an ornamented edge by Peter Getz (1981.1023); 4 
ancient coins from the Asia Minor area (1981.1047); extremely rare 
didrachm of Eryz, Sicily struck during the 5th century B.C. (1981.1051); 
tetradrachm of Ephesus with a characteristic bee design and the name of 
the magistrate Pythagoras (1981.1052); 2 ancient Greek coins from Cyzicus 
and Priene respectively (1981.1053); 2 rare tesserae and an ancient Roman 
sestertius commemorating the Emperor Septimius Severus (1981.1054); 17 
electrum coins struck in the name of Byzantine Emperior Manuel I, Com- 
nenus, A.D. 1143-80 (1981.1074); 2 bronze medallions portraying George 
Washington and Benjamin Franklin, possibly made in France during the 
late 1700s (1981.1077); 11 Byzantine electrum coins struck in the names 
of Emperors John II, Comnenus, A.D. 1118-43, and Manuel I, Comnenus, 
A.D. 1143-80 (1981.1078); 2 Roman Republican denarii of the 1st century 
B.C. (1982.0702); shield-shaped plaster plaque commemorating George 
Washington (1982.0704); 3 medals from France, Great Britain, and Vene- 
zuela and a German plaquette (1982.0706); 6 rare U.S. fractional notes, 
1862-64 (1982.0707); 5-dollar gold piece of the Massachusetts and Cali- 
fornia Company of San Francisco and a U.S. copper 3-cent piece, 1864 
(1982.0708); gold medal commemorating the centennial of the battle and 
massacre of Wyoming settlers on July 3, 1778 (1982.0709); U.S. gold medal 
by Morgan commemorating Joseph E. Temple conferred upon Julian Levi 
in 1962 by the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts (1982.0710); Danish- 
mendid coin of Sivas, Turkey, 12th century A.D. (1982.0712); 2 contem- 
porary counterfeits of Christopher Bechtler's North Carolina 1- and 5- 
dollar gold pieces (1982.0714); 163 contemporary imitations of ancient coins 
and modern American and foreign coins (1982.0731); 16 dies for striking 
the obverse and reverse of 8 gold solidi of late Roman Emperors (1982. 
0732); 20 dies for striking the obverse and reverse of 10 gold solidi of the 
Roman Empire (1982.0733); 5 unique U.S. fractional currency essays (1982. 
0734); 46 U.S. commemorative medals and tokens and an Italian medal 



614 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



(1982.0752); 12 dies for striking the obverse and reverse of 6 late Roman 
and Byzantine gold solidi and tremisses (1982.0753); 8 Byzantine bronze 
coins struck in the provincial cities of Catania and Syracuse (1982.0754); 
5 dies for striking the obverse of rare tremisses of Roman and Byzantine 
Emperors (1982.0755); 2 U.S. coins including an 1832 half-dime and a 1955 
double-struck Lincoln cent (1982.0756); 100-dollar stock certificate issued 
by Hope and Company of Amsterdam to the Bank of the United States in 
Philadelphia on August 29, 1844 (1982.0757); 6 rare counterstamped gold 
coins of the 18th century (1982.0765); 624 Rhode Island Colonial notes 
issued July 2, 1780 (1982.0768). 

Mabel Sterns: slide rule which belonged to George L. Sterns, ca. 1897 
(1983.0042). 

St. John X-Ray Laboratory (through Herbert R. Isenburger) : 3 Laue-pattern 
photographic prints, 2 photographs, and a radiograph print of noose-hook 
aluminum castings used on gliders which carried U.S. troops to Normandy 
(1983.0011). 

Lois Greene Stone: woman's blue handkerchief with an embroidered Air 
Force emblem, ca. 1945, silk handkerchief case, and a roll of film taken at a 
wedding in 1930 (1981.0401). 

Storz Instrument Company (through Dr. Ramon Castroviejo) : 29 ophthal- 
mological instruments designed by Dr. Ramon Castroviejo (1982.0048). 

5TP Corporation (through Alfred W. Vitale) : STP-Paxton Turbocar, the 
Siletit Screamer, ca. 1967, driven by Parnelli Jones in the 1968 Indianapolis 
500, Brawner-Ford racing car, the Hawk, ca. 1966, driven by Mario An- 
dretti to win the 1969 Indianapolis 500, and 2 racing suits with helmets and 
gloves (1978.0418). 

Lewis L. Strauss: box containing glass negatives and positives (1983.0068). 

Estate of Edwin Bates Stroble (through Wm. Ernest Gasch) : 2 WW II German 
enlisted-rank caps and a Nazi flag (1977.0788). 

George A. Stroud: Filmplate Premo folding camera with case manufactured 
by Rochester Optical Company (1982.0551); Brownie-Automatic camera 
(1983.0067). 

Mary E. Studebaker: jacquard woven coverlet with a central medallion design 
(1982.0750). 

Helen C. Sunday: set of 28 albumen carte de visite photographs, set of 28 
albumen cabinet prints, set of 4 tintypes, and an albumen card print 
(1982.0524). 

Susquehanna Broadcasting Company, The Pfaltzgraff Company (through 
Louis J. Appell, Jr.) : 5 porcelain cups of French and American manufacture 
with portraits of U.S. Presidents John Adams, John Quincy Adams, James 
Madison, Andrew Jackson, and James Monroe, mid-19th century (1982. 
0117). 

Mrs. Marie P. Tarnapowicz: letter and check for $1.25 from the U.S. Depart- 
ment of the Treasury, "President's Prayer" in frame with support, his- 
torical statement about the prayer, and an inaugural committee member 
Eisenhower medal (1982.0462). 

Eleanor Lee Templeman: 4 optical lens testers in a leather case (1982.0354); 
regulation 1851 officer's sword belt buckle and an ordnance insignia 
(1982.0380). 

Jerome Thor: trench coat worn by Mr. Thor in the television series "Foreign 
Intrigue," 1951-54 (1982.0614). 

Joayline T. C. Tilney: 2 Abraham Lincoln postcards (1983.0268). 

Mary D. Titus: 2-piece off-white satin wedding dress, white veil, white satin 
slippers, and a sheer white handkerchief all worn by Alice Mary Kleinhans 
Titus at her wedding on January 20, 1902 (1980.0754). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 615 



Transport Museum Association (through John P. Roberts, M.D.): reproduc- 
tion of a Harlan & Hollingsworth car builder's plate (1982.0371). 

Laura M. Trexler: navy blue wool streetcar conductor's coat worn in Atlantic 
City, New Jersey, 1910-11 (1980.0406). 

Trinity College, Department of Biology (through Marie T. Dimond, S.N.D.): 
25 pieces of biochemical and botanical science teaching apparatus (1982. 
0367). 

John Q. Tucker: combination Christmas program and menu from the US5 
Franklin, 1911 (1982.0543). 

Tufflight Track Corporation (through Rodney Hughes and Craig Lawrence): 
2 Tufflight rubber track surface samples (1983.0317). 

Lillian Scheffres Turner: porcelain vase with silver overlay decoration and a 
beehive-shaped honey pot with cover (1981.0763). 

Dr. Stephen R. Turner: 2 porcelain mugs decorated with scenes of monks in 
a wine cellar, 1892-1906 (1981.0759). 

Maxine Kennedy Turquette: 2 pairs of ice-skating panties and a membership 
card from the Saint Paul Figure Skating Club, 1941-42 season (1981.0165). 

International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace & Agricultural Implement 
Workers of America — UAW (through Douglas A. Fraser) : 11 posters con- 
cerning American trade and labor rights, 2 videotape cassettes titled "Build- 
ing America," and an audiotape reel of advertisements (1982.0412). 

UOP, Inc. (through John D. Culton and David O. Stephens) : B. F. Sturtevant 
steam engine-generator, 1897, revolution counter from the engine "Minne- 
haha," I. P. Morris builder's plate from the pumping engine "Michigan," 
1889, and a photographic copy of a tracing of the engines "Michigan" 
and "Winnipeg" dated 1888, all from the Calumet & Hecla copper mine in 
Upper Michigan (1982.0597); (through John D. Culton): 2 wire reels, a 
shaft measuring device, and a dynamite blasting machine patented by 
H. Julius Smith, ca. 1895 (1983.0077). 

Kenneth Trist Urquhart: daguerreotype possibly of Betty Taylor Bliss Dand- 
ridge (1983.0110). 

U.S. American Revolution Bicentennial Administration: 8 pewter plaquettes 
from "The Bicentennial History of the United States Ingot Series" issued 
by the Franklin Mint (1981.0547); 24 silver and 21 pewter plaquettes from 
"The Bicentennial History of the United States Ingot Series" issued by the 
Franklin Mint (1983.0265). 

U.S. Department of Commerce, National Bureau of Standards (through Dr. 
James M. Cassell) : panoramic dental X-ray machine (1978.0254). 

U.S. Department of Defense, Department of the Air Force, U.S. Air Force 
Academy, Cadet Wing Tradition Committee (through Cadet Michael L. 
Eberle and Maj. Theodore J. Fahrlander) : 40 U.S. Air Force Academy cadet 
squadron patches (1977.0722); Department of the Army, U.S. Army Trans- 
portation Center, U.S. Army Transportation Museum (through Les Jensen) : 
German tropical shorts, WW II (1982.0682); Department of the Navy, 
Naval Historical Center, Navy Department Library (through Fred Meigs): 
5 Lucky Bag yearbooks from the U.S. Naval Academy for the years 1898, 
1910, 1912, 1916, and 1927 (1977.0880); Naval Research Laboratory (through 
Capt. James C. Matheson) : first pulse radar receiver developed in 1936 
(1983.0256). 
U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare, Public Health Service, 
National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Arthritis and Metabolic 
Diseases, Laboratory of Experimental Pathology, Section of Rheumatic 
Diseases (through Leon Sokoloff, M.D.): O'Dwyer intubation surgical kit 
in a canvas case (1982.0636). 
U.S. Department of Justice, U.S. Marshals Service, U.S. Marshal: 19 U.S. 



616 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



half-dollars, 15 U.S. dollars, and 14 U.S. pennies, all coinage dating between 
1879 and 1959 (1983.0045). 

U.S. Department of State, Office of the Chief of Protocol: Republic of Panama 
mint proof set composed of 9 coins, 1975 (1979.0651). 

U.S. Department of the Treasury: 62 U.S. coins struck in 1979 in Philadelphia, 
Denver, and San Francisco (1982.0799); Bureau of the Mint (through Donna 
Pope): 2 George Washington commemorative half-dollars, 1982 (1983.0262); 
through George E. Hunter, Ph.D.) : 2 George Washington commemorative 
50-cent proof coins, 1982 (1983.0263). 

U.S. Legislative Branch, Library of Congress: Bureau of Engraving and Print- 
ing presentation volume of U.S. specimen notes prepared for Secretary of 
the Treasury, J. Sherman, 1877-78 (1981.0872); Prints Division: 30 docu- 
mentary objects including cartoons and pages from The Illustrated London 
News, The Graphic, Harper's Weekly and Cleason's Pictorial Drawing 
Room Companion (1982.0339). 

Virginia Hot Springs, Inc. (through Thomas J. Lennon) : Zander Type A 
adjustable-weight shoulder unit (1982.0213). 

Harry C. Vonk: 27 phonorecords (1982.0357). 

Nellie Ward (through Carol Cooper) : pair of women's beige suede shoes 
trimmed with tan silk and steel beads, 1880-95, and a pair of woman's 
light-orange seamed silk stockings, 1900-24, both worn by Helen Wilder 
Cross Denison (1981.0231). 

Walter Phelps Warren: 2 silver serving spoons made by Lewis Fueter, ca. 
1769, and a silver ladle made by William Terry, after 1755 (1983.0047). 

Washington and Jefferson College (through Howard J. Burnett) : combination 
ihercury barometer and thermometer made by J. M. Wightman of Boston, 
Massachusetts (1982.0570). 

Waterbury Companies, Inc., a subsidiary of Talley Industries, Inc. (through 
L. P. Sperry, Jr.) : collection of 974 objects including 2 books, a bakelite 
cast, camera obscura, stereoscope-graphoscope, miscellaneous boxes, mir- 
rors, spectacles, collotypes by Eadweard Muybridge, and Union cases with 
photographs, daguerreotypes, ambrotypes, and tintypes (322775). 

C. Malcolm Watkins: silver Boehm concert flute made by William S. Haynes 
Co. of Boston, ca. 1920, with case (1982.0511). 

Joan Pearson Watkins: teapot and sugar bowl with covers, cream pitcher, 
platter, and a pair of candlesticks all made of coarse red earthenware 
pottery by Benjamin Wade Owen of Seagrove, North Carolina, ca. 1965 
(1981.1039). 

Laura Woodside Watkins (through C. Malcolm Watkins) : 4 fragments of clay 
molds used for pouring iron at a 17th-century iron furnace in Braintree, 
Massachusetts (1979.0109). 

Bernice Webster: 2 boy's fancy-dress suits (1982.0027). 

Weider Hardware Wholesalers (through Sam Weider) : kitchen pendant 
switch with cord and a spare switch (1983.0297). 

Cheryl R. Weiss: Erpophon portable disc phonograph (1981.0690). 

Adam A. Weschler & Son, Auctioneers (through Michael J. Weschler) : 11 
hand tools from the Green Estate in Alexandria, Virginia (1982.0426). 

The Wheeler School (through William C. Prescott, Jr.) : 3 field hockey sticks 
showing changes in form from the 1920s to the 1980s, 2 pairs of shin 
guards, pre- and post-1970s, and a girl's field hockey uniform, including 
sweat shirt, shirt, tunic, kilt, briefs, and socks in the school colors of navy 
blue and white (1983.0058). 

The White House, Office of the Curator (through Clement E. Conger) : 19- 
piece place setting of the state dinner and dessert service selected by Mrs. 
Ronald Reagan and made by Lenox, Inc., 1982 (1982.0624). 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 617 



J. H. White, Jr.: 2-wheel Willis planimeter, late 19th century (1983.0173). 

Roger White: 4 glass lantern slides called "Song-Hit Slides "depicting song 
lyrics and scenes (1982.0271). 

Richard and Sarah Boys Widhu: wedding items including 3 brightly colored 
banners, man's off-white muslin hand-embroidered shirt, full-length white 
sleeveless wedding dress, circular headdress trimmed with artificial roses 
and ribbons, and a pair of woman's espadrilles (1980.0385). 

Doreen V. Wilber: U.S. archery team uniform consisting of a T-shirt and 
skirt worn by Doreen V. Wilber during the 1972 Olympic Games (1982. 
0595). 

Shedrick Williames: 5 photographic prints by Mr. Williames (1983.0050). 

Rollin L. Wilson: man's tan raincoat, navy blue and green plaid robe, a 
blue and grey plaid jacket, dark-grey heather-colored trousers, white short- 
sleeved shirt, burgundy striped tie, navy blue socks, and gold cuff links 
(1979.0552). 

Dr. Paul Winchell: ventriloquist's puppet "Knucklehead Smiff" made in 1951 
and used by Dr. Winchell (1982.0424). 

Barbara N. Winslow: 38-star U.S. national flag in use from July 4, 1877, to 
July 3, 1890 (1983.0349). 

Marie K. Wolf: Wang Programmable Calculator 700 with 5 reference man- 
uals and a cassette tape (198^.0171). 

Judy A. and Robert James Womack: 4 official Ronald Reagan presidential 
inaugural medals, 1981 (1982.0381). 

The Honorable Mark D. Woodward: linen sheet marked in ink "Willards 
Hotel No 122 1874" (1982.0676). 

Norman Wootton: vest-pocket sized Autographic camera with case by Kodak 
(1983.0066). 

George W. Workman: 3 police badges labeled "Commander," "Physician," 
and "Handwriting Examiner," from the City of Long Beach, California, 
1982 (1982.0402). 

Johnnie R. Wright: jacket and pants decorated with appliqued horses and 
brass tacks worn by country-western singer Johnny Wright (1982.0361). 

Edwin L. Young: numismatist's store card used by Edwin Young of Engle- 
wood, Colorado (1982.0711). 

Lewis Ludington Young: group of photographs consisting of 4 ambrotypes, 
2 daguerreotypes, a tintype, and a card (1983.0010). 

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 



Donors of Financial Support 

Ahmanson Foundation 
Associates Corporation of North 

America 
Barra Foundation, Inc. 
Barry Bingham, Sr. 
Ambassador and Mrs. Ben Hill 

Brown 
CBS Television Network 
Fisher Theatre Foundation, Inc. 
Gerald R. Ford Library 
Monica and Herman Greenberg 

Foundation 
Clarence and Jack Himmel 

Foundation 
Ralph Hopkins 



Illinois Arts Council 

Eugenie and Joseph Jones Family 

Foundation 
Mrs. Donald Klopfer 
Lilly Endowment, Inc. 
T. Bragg McLeod 
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation 
Minnesota Historical Society 
National Art Seminars Corporation 
New York Community Trust 
Simon Foundation, Inc. 
Rosalind Solomon 
Robert G. Stewart 
Swann Foundation for Caricature & 

Cartoon 



618 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Edmond E. Talbot 
Time-Life Books, Inc. 
Barbara Tuckman 

Donors to the Collections 

C. W. Baumgarten 

August Belmont IV 

Barry Bingham, Sr. 

Marcella Brenner 

Mrs. Vincent L. Buckley 

Mrs. James Caldwell 

Allyn Cox 

Herb Cruckman 

Salvatore Del Deo 

Alan Fern 

Charles F. Flynn 

Jem Horn 

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Hoover III 

Mrs. Herbert Clark Hoover 

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur St. Clair 

Johnson 
Paul Katz 



University of Chicago Club of 

Washington, D.C. 
William Allen White Foundation 



Clifford Krainik 

Katie Louchheim 

Clare Boothe Luce 

Mrs. Henry Lyne, Jr. 

T. Bragg McLeod 

Robert L. McNeil, Jr. 

Violet Oakley Memorial Foundation 

John O'Brien 

George R. Rinhart 

Edouard Roditi 

Charles Rowe 

Mr. and Mrs. Leslie J. Schreyer 

Richard Shack 

Donald R. Simon 

William F. Stapp 

University of Alaska 

Erwin Vollmer 



OFFICES OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS 
Donors of Financial Support 

Educational Outreach Fund for support of On-site Workshop Series cospon- 

sored with the Virginia Association of Museums. 
Educational Outreach Fund for the Native American Museum and Cultural 

Center Directors and Administrators National Workshop. 
Adolph Coors Company for the Native American Museum and Cultural Cen- 
ter Directors and Administrators National Workshop. 
United Indian Development Association, Los Angeles, California, for the 

Native American Museum and Cultural Center Directors and Administrators 

National Workshop. 
Edward W. Hazen Foundation for the support of an intern from Ghana. 
Native American Archives Project grant to produce a slide-cassette program, 

Tribal Archives. 
W. H. Kellogg Foundation grant for programs to "Expand the Educational 

Influence of Museums." 



OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE 
Donors of Financial Support 

Mrs. Watson Blair 
Alf. Christianson Seed Co. 
Crosby Arboretum 
Fahnestock & Co. 
Garden Club of America 
Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison 
Mrs. Dorothy Kidder 
Longwood Foundation, Inc. 
NCR Corporation 



Old Westbury Gardens, Inc. 

Colonel & Mrs. Harry Parham 

Mrs. Sherman Pratt 

Mrs.Oakleigh Thome 

The Oakleigh L. Thome Foundation 

United Catalysts, Inc. 

Dr. and Mrs. Karl Wamsler 

Mrs. Henry A. Wilmerding 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 619 



In-Kind Donations and Special Assistance 

Delta Air Lines, Inc. : shipping of garden furnishings and exhibition materials 
from the United States to Frankfurt, West Germany ($20,000). 

Garden Club of Bavaria: bricks for walkway in American Garden and silver 
trophies awarded at American Week races ($5,600). 

Kemnitzer, Reid, & Haffler Architects: preparation of architectural drawings 
for construction of the summerhouse in the American Garden ($5,703). 

Pan American World Airways, Inc.: three first-class round-trip tickets Wash- 
ington, D.C., to Munich, West Germany, and shipping of exhibition mate- 
rials ($10,000). 

Robert W. Reinhardt: design and preparation of architectural drawings for 
construction of the bower in the American Garden ($2,014). 

Robinson Iron: reduction in purchase price of cast-iron reproduction settees, 
urns, and pedestals ($5,166.85). 

Mrs. Honore Wamsler: made possible the construction and installation of the 
summerhouse, bower, and pergola, as well as underwriting costs for travel, 
plantings, supplies, garden furnishings, and American Week activities 
($111,500). 

Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Institution: $2,500 for flasking 
laboratory. 

Donors to the Seed Catalogue Collection 

Mrs. David Burpee and the W. Atlee Burpee Co.: 165 cases of antique and 
contemporary seed catalogues and records of the Burpee family and the 
W. Atlee Burpee Co. 

Donors to the Trees of Christmas Ornament Collection 

Barbara Hanft: 65 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree "Bread 
Dough Dummies." 

Elaine E. Head: 359 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree "Enchanted 
Wonderland." 

Donna Morgan: 697 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree "Interna- 
tional Paper Tree." 

Naval Officer's Wives Club, Washington, D.C., and the Awa Lau Wahine, 
Hawaii: 112 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree "Birds of 
Paradise." 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES 
Donors to the Collections 

INDIVIDUAL 

Andrew J. Berger: the papers of Andrew J. Berger. 

Richard E. Blackwelder: the papers of Richard E. Blackwelder. 

Ellen Burden: the papers of Robert E. Snodgrass. 

Arthur Detmers Dubin: the papers of Arthur Detmers Dubin. 

Farouk El-Baz : the papers of Farouk El-Baz. 

George B. Field: the papers of George B. Field. 

Mrs. A. Remington Kellogg: the papers of A. Remington Kellogg. 

Leo J. Hickey: the papers of Leo J. Hickey. 

Patricia Knight: the papers of Harry H. Knight. 

Jane Ladd: the papers of Harry S. Ladd. 

Otto Mayr: the papers of Otto Mayr. 

George Sprague Myers: the papers of George Sprague Myers. 



620 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Watson M. Perrygo : the papers of Watson M. Perrygo. 

Joseph E. Randall: the papers of Frederick A. Greeley. 

Theodore H. Reed: the records of the International Union of Directors of 

Zoological Gardens. 
S. Dillon Ripley: the papers of S. Dillon Ripley. 
Paul J. Spangler: the records of the Biological Society of Washington, the 

records of the Coleopterists' Society. 
T. Dale Stewart: taped reminiscences. 

Lawrence H. Walkinshaw: the papers of Lawrence H. Walkinshaw. 
Austin B. Williams: the papers of Austin B. Williams and the records of the 

Estuarine Research Foundation. 

INSTITUTIONAL 

American Ornithologists' Union: a collection from the union. 

American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists: the records of the 

society. 
Colonial Waterbird Group: the records of the group. 
Eastern Bird-Banding Association: the records of the association. 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 
Donors of Financial Support 

$10,000 OR MORE 

Dibner Fund Inc., Norwalk, Connecticut. 

$1,000 OR MORE 

David Dibner, Wilton, Connecticut. 

Donors to the Collections 

Susan Abrams: 8 volumes. 

Lady Emily Dreker Armstrong: 8 volumes. 

Richard Banks: Wildlife and Wildlife Habitat of American Samoa, pts. 1, 2. 

Dr. Bruce M. Beehler: The Behavioral Ecology of Four Birds of Paradise. 

John A. Betcher: 16 volumes. 

Dr. Rhea Blue: several volumes of Journal of the American Oriental Society. 

C. G. Boerner: 2 volumes. 

Melanie Bond: 9 volumes. 

Edwin Botwin: various volumes. 

Mrs. Edgar V. Bythiner: various volumes. 

Mrs. Lester Cahn: various volumes. 

Dr. Paul Campanella: 2 volumes. 

Dr. Margaret Child: Graphic materials. 

Roger Clapp: Marine Birds of the Southeastern United States and Gulf of 

Mexico, pt. 2: Anseriformes. 
Mrs. James H. Clement: The Sublime Heritage of Martha Mood, vol. 2. 
Quintina Colio: Das Kostumwerk. 
Mary Combs: Brooms, Buttons and Beaux. 

Dorothy Mann Cordry: 42 books on puppetry plus several journals. 
Dr. David Correll: 2 volumes. 
Dr. Donovan Correll: Index Filicum and supplements, 1-3. 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 621 



Dr. Richard Cowan: 3 volumes plus a subscription to Zandera. 

Marsha Cox. Galapagos: Siudi Richerche. 

Janet Crampton: various journals. 

Janet W. Crampton: 258 issues of scientific journals. 

Elaine Dee: 17 volumes. 

Gerald Deitzler: Strategies of Plant Reproduction. 

Dr. Bern Dibner: 2 volumes. 

Polly DuFresne: Celebration of Carnegie in Pittsburgh. 

William J. Ellenberger: 12 volumes. 

Dr. Richard Hyde: 3 volumes. 

Robert Faden: Monocot Weeds 3. 

Ellen Farr: 2 volumes. 

Gertrude Fehl: 22 photographs. 

Dr. William Field: Atlanta, volumes 1-10. 

Barbara Chaney Ferguson: The Paper Doll: A Collector's Guide with prices. 

Dr. Richard Fiske: 2 volumes. 

Michael Fleischer: Manganese Nodules. 

Richard Foote: Report on Agricultural Entomology in Cambodia. 

Shelly Foote: 3 volumes. 

Paul Forman: 12 volumes. 

Dr. Raymond Fosberg: A Handbook to the Flora of Ceylon. 

Katarine L. Fox: Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual. 

Marilyn Francis : 2 booklets. 

Dr. Vicki A. Funk: Advances in Cladistics, vol. 11: Proceedings of the second 

meeting of the Willi Hennig Society. 
Joan W. Gandy: 2 volumes. 
Thomas H. Garver: 6 volumes. 

Dr. Robert Gibbs: Turbidity in the Aquatic Environment. 
James R. Glenn: 2 volumes. 
Dorothy Globus: 6 volumes. 
Rita Goodfleisch: various volumes. 
Robert Gordon: Academy Players Directory, 75th ed., plus several journal 

issues. 
Dr. Richard Grant: Geological and Ecological studies of Qinghai-Xizang 

Plateau, vol. 1. 
Dona Guimaraes: 2 volumes. 

Dr. Charles Handley: A.A.Z.P.A. Manual of Federal Wildlife Regulations. 
Letitia Hanson: 2 volumes of National Geographic magazine. 
Elizabeth R. Harriage: 2 volumes. 
Ray Hebert: 4 volumes. 
Michael Heisches: Ruby and Sapphire. 
Dr. Gordon Hendler: 7 volumes. 
Dr. William R. Heyer: Evolutionary Relationships among Advances Snakes, 

plus several journal issues. 
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Hoff : Animate Creation. 
Donald W. Hoist: The British Establishment, 1760-1784. vols. 1-2. 
Lee S. Houchins : 800 volumes. 
Margot Hunt : 22 volumes. 
Everett Jackson: 4 volumes. 
Albert Jornet: Aanlyse Mineralogique et Chimique de la Ceramique Romaine 

Suisse a Enduit Brillant. 
Howard Kaylan: various volumes. 
Vija Karklins: issues of American Libraries. 
Robert Kaufmann: Texas Boots. 
Dr. Roman Kenk: Flora I Fauna Vodoemov Evropeiskogo Severa. An SSSR. 



622 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Claudia Kidwell: 9 volumes. 

Eylene King: 9 journal issues. 

Judith King: Man and Beast: A Visual History. 

Kohn Kingsolver: A Catalog of the Coleoptera of America North of Mexico. 

Donald Kloster: Supplying Washington's Armies. 

Dr. Leslie Knapp: 7 volumes. 

Ray Kondratas: Public Health Nursing in North Carolina: Oral Histories of 
Earlier Years. 

Barbara A. Kazosky: 38 volumes. 

Dr. Karl V. Krombein: Pereponchatokrylye Dalnego Bostoka. 

Sara Jane Lamlein: 8 volumes. 

Dr. Robert Laughlin: Estudios Preliminares Sohre los Mayas de las Tierras 
Bajas N oroccidentales. 

Roxie Laybourne: Dictionary of Alaska place names. 

Dr. David Lellinger: 4 volumes. 

Kathleen Lepercq: 4 volumes. 

Leo Lerman: various volumes. 

Mark Lewis : packet of photos and brochures. 

Dr. Elbert Little: 7 volumes. 

Felicia Lovelett: subscription to Association of Avian Verterinarians News- 
letter. 

Robert Luck: 25 volumes. 

Richard H. Lytle: various journal issues. 

Fiona McCleary: A Bad Boy's Diary. 

David McFadden: 133 volumes and catalogues. 

Dr. Raymond Manning: NMFS Circ, no. 446. 

Mrs. E. A. G. Manton: various journal issues. 

Dr. Maurice Margulies : Arahidopsis Information Services. 

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Markert, Sr. : The Lady's Book. 4 volumes. 

Susan B. Mason: The Only Sure Guide to the English Tongue. 

Dr. Otto Mayr: 118 books and journal issues. 

Dr. James Mead: Aufsatze und Reden der Senckenbergergischen Naturfor- 
schenden Cesellschaft. 

Lavinia Meeks: various newspapers and bulletins. 

Dr. Arnold Menke: complete run of the journal Sphecos: Newsletter for 
Aculeate Wasp Researchers. 

Pauline Metcalf : 46 journals and catalogues. 

Terese Milbauer: 9 journals. 

Dr. Scott Miller: various Chinese texts on entomology. 

Joseph Calvin Mitchell: Population Ecology and Demography of the Fresh- 
water Turtles Chrysemys Picta and Sternotherus Odoratus. 

Kinki Moriyama : 2 Japanese volumes. 

Aurelia Munos : Tapisseries I Muntatges Textils. 

Charles Murphy: 2 volumes. 

Dr. Dan Nicolson: 3 volumes. 

Mike Nocera: microfishe of 71 trade catalogues. 

Joan Norwicks: The Pahynology of the Malpighiaceae and Its Contribution to 
Family Systematics. 

Jacqueline Olin: 2 volumes. 

Dr. Storrs Olsen: 6 volumes. 

Jean Orteig: 34 volumes. 

Derek Ostergaard: L' Architecture, La Decoration, L'Ameublement. 

Roger Pasquier: various books and serials. 

Edgar E. Peck: 59 auction catalogues. 

Paul Perrot: Modern Kuwait. 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 623 



Karen Preslock : 2 volumes. 

Princeton University: Project Matterhorn Stellarator Division. Log Book: July 

1952-June 1953. 
Robert Purdy: History of the Smithsonian Exchanges. 
Mildred Raitt: Icelandic Sagas, Eddas, and Art. 
Dr. Clayton Ray: Treasury of Big Came Animals. 
Dr. Robert Read: Flora of Trinidad and Tobago, vol. LL part XI. 
Ernst S. Reese: Contrasts in Behavior. 
Dr. Harold Rehder: journal issue. 
Frank Rettenberg: Slave songs of the United States. 
5. Dillon Ripley: Naissance de la Louisiane 1682-1731. 
Ingrid Risop: 2 volumes. 

Dr. Warren Robbins: La Peinture Francaise (1905-1914) et "L'Art Negre." 
Christian Rohlfing: 3 volumes. 
Susan A. Romine: 6 volumes. 
Renata Rutledge: Behring Zum Cedachtnis. 
Peter Scherer: 2 volumes. 
James Seeman: 6 volumes. 
Nick Schliapin: 4 volumes. 
Waldo Schmidt estate: 5 volumes. 
Fares Schbouk: Dykes Catalog of Mouldings, 1949. 
Frederick D. Sharp: Relation Historique de la Virginie. 
Dr. Stanwyn Shetler: 7 volumes. 
Walter Shropshire: Marine Phytoplankton: Line Auswahl der Helgolander 

Pkanktonalgen. 
Mrs. P. O. Sigler: various Smithsonian annual reports and magazines. 
Dr. Laurence Skog: 2 volumes. 
Dr. Paul Slud: 3 volumes. 
Mrs. L. Smiley: various journal issues. 

Jean Chandler Smith: Charles Meryon: Prints and Drawings. 
Dr. Lyman B. Smith: Flore Manuel de la Province de Quebec. 
Sheila Smith: 3 volumes. 
Stephen Smith: 2 volumes. 
Dr. Thomas Soderstrom: 3 volumes. 
Dr. Theodore Spilman: various books and journals. 
Dr. Victor Springer: Histoire Naturelle des Poissons, plus other books and 

journals. 
Helen Stark: 16 journal issues. 

Wayne C. Starnes: Tennessee's Rare Wildlife: Vol. 1: The Vertebrates. 
John Stine: 6 volumes. 

Dr. Hans Syz: Meissen: Die Bibliophilen Taschenbucher. 
Lisa Taylor: various books and journals. 
Elizabeth Ten Houten: 10 volumes. 
Dr. F. Christian Thompson: Helvetischa Entomologie. 
Dr. Richard Thorington: Maiferos en la Coleccion de la Estacion Biologica de 

Rahcno Grande, Venezuela. 
Harold A. Treitel: 6 journals. 
Louise Ufland: various books and journals. 
Robert Vogel: 7 volumes. 
Dorothy Warren: various books. 
Pierra Watkins: The Artist and the Animal. 
Dr. George Watson: 19 volumes. 
Ellen Wells : 5 volumes. 

Dr. Dennis Whigham: Arctic and Alpine Research. 10 volumes. 
Eileen White: Importants Bijoux-Succession de Madame ]. Thors. 



624 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



James White: 4 volumes. 

John H. White: 9 volumes. 

Dr. Richard White: Serials Sources for the Biosis Data Base. 

Roger White: The Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters. 

Carlos Whiting: Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1946-1956. 

Dr. John Wierdack: Ferns and Flowering Plants of South Dakota. 

Herbert H. Wise: 2 volumes. 

Mrs. Marshall Wolf: various auction catalogues. 

T. G. Yuncher estate: 6 volumes. 

Dr. George Zug: 2 volumes. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE 



Donors of Financial Support 

Harold Abroms 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul J. Adelson 

Anheuser-Busch Companies, 

Incorporated 
Jeffrey Appleby 

Weiler Arnow Investment Company 
Dr. and Mrs. Larry Averbuch 
Dr. and Mrs. Richard Bader 
Nancy Beren 
Mrs. Henrietta Berger 
Steven Berger 
Best Foundation 
Leonard Block 
BIum-Kovler Foundation 
Ivan Boesky 
Marshall Brachman 
The Samuel Bronfman Foundation 
Champion International 
George and Phyllis Cohen 
Melvin Cohen 
Victor and Ellen Cohn 
Conoco, Incorporated 
Continental Services Corporation 
Arie and Ida Crown Memorial 
Culbro Corporation 
Harry J. and Claire S. Dworkin 

Foundation 
Editions Alecto, Ltd. 
Mrs. Allan Emil 
Federation of Jewish Philanthropies 

of New York 
Mrs. Susan Feer 
Mrs. Joseph Finer 
Philip William Fisher 
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Freedman 
Mr. and Mrs. Jacobo Furman 
Susan and Michael Gelman 
Joan and Elan Gerson 
Gilbert Gertner 
The Gimprich Family Foundation 



Fred P. Goldhirsch 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard N. Goldman 

Richard W. Goldman 

The Horace W. Goldsmith 

Foundation 
Alan Greenberg 
Arnold C. Greenberg 
Homer and Martha Gudelsky 

Foundation 
The Isadore and Bertha Gudelsky 

Family Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Haas 
Mrs. Walter A. Haas 
Mr. Kenneth Heriot 
Leon Hess (Hess Foundation) 
Mr. Gale Hoskins 
Frederick Jaffe 
Jesselson Foundation 
Sam Kane 

Mr. and Mrs. Abe Katz 
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Katz 
Kekst and Company, Incorporated 
Kirchner Fine Art, Ltd. 
David and Sadie Klau 
Mr. George Klein 
Simon Konover 
Mr. Robert Koch 
Miles Lerman 
Suzanne S. Levatin 
Mr. Richard Levy 
Lions Club International 
David and Marjorie Lissy 
Ms. Renee Logan 
Sam and Anna Lopin 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Low 
Steven A. Ludsin 
Barbara and Morton L. Mandel 
Florence and Joseph C. Mandel 
Lilyan and Jack N. Mandel 
Philip and Phyllis Margolius 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 625 



Ernest Martin 

Mrs. Robert Mayer 

William and Helen Mazer 

The Giles W. and Elise G. Mead 

Foundation 
Metromedia, Incorporated 
Mobil Oil Corporation 
Mrs. Melvin Moore 
Sondra Myers 
Jack Nash 

Mrs. Louis Nathanson 
Albert Nerken 
NVF Company Community Services 

Trust (V. Posner ) 
Gerald and Lynn Ostrow 
Pepsico International 
Perkins School for the Blind 
Charles I. Petschek 
Philip Morris Incorporated 
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Polinger 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Primds 
Mr. and Mrs. Mortimer Propp 
The Regis Foundation (Myron Kunin) 
Rite Aid Corporation 
Esther Leah Ritz Philanthropic Fund 
The RGK Foundation 
Rose Associates 
Norman and Dulcie Rosenfeld 
Mrs. William Rosenwald 
Mrs. Madeleine Russell 
Salem Management Company 
Gary N. Schahet 
S. H. and Helen R. Scheuer Family 

Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Ivan Schick 
Steven Schwarz 



Jane F. Sherman 

William S. Siegal 

Herbert M. Singer Philanthropic Fund 

James Smithson Society 

Smithsonian Institution Education 

Outreach 
Jerry and Lynne Speyer 
Abraham and Edita Spiegel 
Elliot Stein 

Mr. and Mrs. Myron Stone 
Sigmund Strochlitz 
Sukum Navapan Foundation 
Mrs. Peggy Tishman 
Mrs. Phyllis Tishman 
Susan Tomchin 
Julius Trump 
United Jewish Appeal of Greater 

New York 
United Jewish Appeal of Greater 

Washington, Inc. 
United States Information Agency 

(USIA) 
Warner Communications 
Washington Cathedral, Mount Saint 

Alban 
Mrs. Bernard Weinberg 
Harold M. and Anna M. Weinberg 

Family Foundation 
Sandra and Leon Weiner 
Mr. and Mrs. Mark Weinstein 
Mr. Sherwood Weiser 
Peter Wiesz 
Xerox Corporation 
Roger Yorke 
Mr. and Mrs. Louis I. Zorensky 



Donors of Support in Kind 

Aer Lingus 

Australian News and Information 

Bureau, Department of the Interior, 

Canberra Australia 
Beka, Incorporated 
By-Word Corporation 



Entheos Communications 

Hyatt Hotels 

Pantheon Books 

Philip Morris Incorporated 

Straw into Gold 



Donors to the Education Department 

Australian News and Information Bureau, Department of the Interior, Can- 
berra, Australia: 20 booklets. 

Beka, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota: 3 looms. 

Entheos Books, Bainbridge Island, Washington: 20 books. 

Straw into Gold, Berkeley, California: natural dyes. 

U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Washington, 
D.C.: visitor's guides. 



626 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



PUBLIC SERVICE 

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS 

Festival New Jersey '83, Inc. Air France 

The Government of France Reelsound, Inc. 

Continental Telecom Inc. 3M Corporation 

The Music Performance Trust Fund Sony Corporation 

John and Clara Higgins Foundation Eastern Airlines 

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS 

Donors of Financial Support 

Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 

Electronic Data Systems Corporation 

Ellis L. Phillips Foundation 

Gannett Foundation 

General Instrument Corporation 

Hogan Systems, Inc. 

Joseph H. Hazen Foundation, Inc. 

M/A-COM Development Corporation 

Nippon Electric Company, Ltd. 

N. V. Philips' Gloeilampenfabrieken (Eindhoven, The Netherlands) 

Psi Search Institute 

Rosenstiel Foundation 

Sage Foundation 

United Education and Software 

UVB Foundation 



MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT 

SMITHSONIAN RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM 

Donors of Financial Support 

Educational Outreach Fund, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Ser- 
vice and the Smithsonian Women's Committee: partial funding for the Free 
Film Theater. 

Netherlands-America Amity Trust, Inc.: funds for the director's participation 
as vice-chairperson for culture and publications, in connection with activi- 
ties to commemorate the bicentennial of the 1782 opening of diplomatic 
relations and the signing of a treaty of amity and commerce between the 
two countries; funds for designing and coordinating the printing of a poster 
commemorating the same events; and funds for programming and coor- 
dinating a nationwide Dutch Film Festival. 

The Rouse Company: funds for an exploratory study regarding possible con- 
tinuing education activities in shopping malls. 

Office of the Mayor, District of Columbia Commission on the Arts and 
Humanities and the Educational Outreach Fund, Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Public Service: partial funding for "Discover Graphics" pro- 
gram for area high school students and teachers. 

Educational Outreach Fund, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public 
Service: partial funding for outreach to the Indian and Pakistani com- 
munities for the Imrat Khan concert. 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 627 



Office of the Mayor, District of Columbia Commission on the Arts and 
Humanities: partial funding of musical tribute to Earl "Fatha" Hines by 
Dizzy Gillespie and Billy Eckstine. 



JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE 
PERFORMING ARTS 

CORPORATE FUND LEADERSHIP 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 



James H. Evans, Chairman 

Vice-Chairmen : 
Robert A. Beck 
Thornton F. Bradshaw 
Charles L. Brown 
James E. Burke 
Thomas E. Drohan 
James L. Ferguson 
Roberto C. Goizueta 
John P. Harbin 
Edward L. Hennessy, Jr. 
John J. Horan 
Edward G. Jefferson 
Howard C. Kauffmann 
James L. Ketelsen 
William F. Kieschnick 
Harold Burson, Secretary 

GOVERNORS 

Warren M. Anderson 
Bennett E. Bidwell 
Theodore A. Burtis 
Joseph E. Connor 
Donald F. Craib, Jr. 
Hugh Cullman 
J. Robert Fluor 
Thomas F. Frist, Jr. 
Howard Goldfeder 
Katharine Graham 
John H. Gutfreund 
Robert A. Hanson 
Edwin K. Hoffman 
Amory Houghton, Jr. 



James E. Lee 
M. Paul LeBlanc, Jr. 
Ruben F. Mettler 
John R. Opel 
Joseph H. Riley 
James D. Robinson III 
Roger B. Smith 
J. Paul Sticht 
Philip W. K. Sweet, Jr. 
Rawleigh Warner, Jr. 
Lew R. Wasserman 
John F. Welch, Jr. 
Thomas H. Wyman 



Charles F. Knight 
John G. McElwee 
Edward N. Ney 
T. Boone Pickens, Jr. 
Max Pine 

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. 
Donald E. Procknow 
Theodore C. Rogers 
Thomas F. Russell 
Donald V. Seibert 
Rocco C. Siciliano 
Donald R. Sloan 
Morton M. Winston 



DONORS OF SUPPORT TO THE CORPORATE FUND— FY 1983 



CORPORATE LEADERSHIP CIRCLE 



American Digital Systems Corporation 

American Telephone & Telegraph Company 

Atlantic Richfield Foundation 

Conoco Inc. 

Digital Equipment Corporation 



628 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Exxon Corporation 

The General Foods Fund Inc. 

International Business Machines Corporation 

Merrill Lynch & Co. Foundation, Inc. 

Mobil Foundation, Inc. 

R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc. 

Standard Oil Company (Indiana) 

Union Pacific Foundation 

CORPORATE PATRONS 

CBS Inc. 

Champion International Foundation 

Chevron U.S.A. Inc. 

Clark-Winchcole Foundation 

General Electric Foundation 

Herrick Foundation 

Merck & Co., Inc. 

The Procter & Gamble Fund 

Shell Companies Foundation, Inc. 

Texaco Philanthropic Foundation, Inc. 

Time Incorporated 

United States Steel Foundation, Inc. 

Warner Communications Program for the Arts 

The Xerox Foundation 

CORPORATE SPONSORS 

Allied Corporation 

The Allstate Foundation 

American Express Foundation 

American Security Bank, N.A. 

Arthur Andersen & Co. 

Ashland Oil, Inc. 

Bender Foundation, Inc. 

The Bendix Corporation 

The Chase Manhattan Bank 

Citicorp 

Coastal Corporation 

The Coca-Cola Company 

Deloitte Haskins & Sells 

Delphines Foundation 

E-Systems Inc. 

E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Inc. 

Ernst & Whinney 

Ford Motor Company Fund 

Foremost-McKesson Foundation, Inc. 

General Motors Foundation, Inc. 

GTE Foundation 

Gulf Oil Corporation 

Halliburton Company 

Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contribution Fund 

LKP International, Ltd. 

Metropolitan Life Foundation 

The N.C.R. Foundation 

The NL Industries Foundation 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 629 



Northrop Corporation 

Philip Morris Incorporated 

PhiUips Petroleum Foundation Inc. 

Potomac Electric Power Company 

Price Waterhouse 

The Prudential Foundation 

Raytheon Company 

The Riggs National Bank of Washington, D.C. 

Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc. 

Sears, Roebuck and Co. 

Sheller-GIobe Corporation 

Sundstrand Corporation Foundation 

Tenneco Inc. 

The Times Mirror Foundation 

The Washington Post Company 

Whirlpool Foundation 

CORPORATE DONORS 

ALCOA Foundation 

Alexander & Alexander Services Inc. 

American Broadcasting Company 

The Andreas Foundation 

BankAmerica Foundation 

Bankers Trust Company 

The BDM Corporation 

Bechtel Foundation 

Bethlehem Steel Corporation 

The Boeing Company 

Borg- Warner Foundation, Inc. 

The Bristol-Myers Fund, Inc. 

Brown-Forman Corporation 

Burlington Industries Foundation 

The C & P Telephone Company 

Caterpillar Foundation 

Celanese Corporation 

Charles E. Smith Companies 

Chemical Bank 

Chesebrough-Pond's Inc. 

CIBA-GEIGY Corporation 

Cities Service Foundation 

Communications Satellite Corporation 

Coopers & Lybrand 

Cox Communications, Inc. 

District Photo 

Dow Corning Corporation 

Dresser Industries, Inc. 

The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Foundation 

Eastman Kodak Company 

Fairchild Industries Foundation, Inc. 

Federal-Mogul Corporation Charitable Trust Fund 

Federal National Mortgage Association 

Federated Department Stores, Inc. 

First Virginia Banks, Inc. 

The Fluor Foundation 

Gannett Foundation 



630 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



General Dynamics 

General Bills Foundation 

The George Hyman Construction Company 

Getty Oil Company 

The Gillette Company 

Goldman Sachs & Co. 

Gould Inc. Foundation 

Grace Foundation Inc. 

Grumman Corporation 

Hallmark Cards Incorporated 

Harris Foundation 

Hoffman-La Roche Inc. 

Honeywell Foundation 

Hughes Aircraft Company 

Humana Inc. 

International Telephone and Telegraph 

John Hancock Charitable Trust 

Johnson & Higgins 

The Johnson's Wax Fund, Inc. 

Kimberly-Clark Foundation, Inc. 

Lomas & Nettleton Financial Corporation 

MCA Foundation Ltd. 

The McGraw-Hill Foundation, Inc. 

Manville Fund 

Martin Marietta 

Mary Horner Stuart Foundation 

The May Stores Foundation, Inc. 

Meredith Corporation 

Mesa Petroleum Co. 

Monsanto Fund 

Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York 

National Geographic Society 

National Steel Corporation 

The Northern Trust Company 

Occidental Petroleum Corporation 

The Olayan Group 

Owens-Illinois, Inc. 

Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. 

J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 

The Pfizer Foundation, Inc. 

Phelps-Dodge Industries, Inc. 

Phibro-Salomon Inc. 

Radio Corporation of America 

The Reader's Digest Association, Inc. 

Reynolds Metals Company Foundation 

Rockwell International Corporation Trust 

St. Regis Corporation 

Saks Fifth Avenue 

Security Pacific Foundation 

The Signal Companies, Inc. 

SmithKline Beckman Corporation 

Sperry Corporation 

The Standard Oil Company (Ohio) 

Sun Company, Inc. 

Ticor Foundation 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 631 



TRW Foundation 

Union Carbide Corporation 

Union Oil Company of California Foundation 

United Technologies 

Walt Disney Productions 

The Warner-Lambert Foundation 

Wells Fargo Foundation 

Wells, Rich, Greene, Inc. 

Western Electric Fund 

Woodward & Lothrop, Inc. 

CORPORATE CONTRIBUTORS 

AMF, Inc. 

Acacia Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

The Air Products Foundation 

American Airlines, Inc. 

American Cyanamid Company 

American Stock Exchange 

Automatic Data Processing, Inc. 

Avco Corporation 

The Burroughs Corporation 

Burson-Marsteller 

Cabot Corporation Foundation, Inc. 

Campbell Soup Company 

Capital Cities Communciations 

Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc. 

Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc. 

Comerica Inc. 

Consolidated Natural Gas Company 

Continental Bank 

The Continental Group Foundation, Inc. 

Cooper Industries Foundation 

Corning Glass Works Foundation 

Cross & Trecker Foundation 

Damon Raike and Company 

Dancer Fitzgerald Sample, Inc. 

Detroit Bank & Trust Company 

Donohoe Construction Co., Inc. 

Earl G. Graves Ltd. 

Earle M. Craig, Jr. Corporation 

Edward Larrabee Barnes Associates, P.C. 

Eli Lilly and Company 

Ellen Newman Associates 

Emerson Charitable Trust 

Engelhard 

Enserch Foundation 

Ethyl Corporation 

First & Merchants National Bank 

The First Boston Corporation 

Garfinckel's 

GEICO Philanthropic Foundation 

General Signal Corporation 

Giant Food Foundation, Inc. 

GK Technologies Incorporated 

B. F. Goodrich Company 



632 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Grey Advertising Good Neighbor Foundation Inc. 

Handy & Harman Foundation 

Harnischfeger Foundation, Inc. 

Hecht's 

H. J. Heinz II Charitable and Fan\ily Trust 

Hiram Walker & Sons, Inc. 

Hitachi America, Ltd. 

Holiday Inns, Inc. 

Hoover Universal 

Hospital Corporation of America 

The Howard P. Foley Company 

Investors Diversified Services Inc. 

John Deere Foundation 

Kellogg Company 

Ketchum Communications 

Kidder, Peabody & Co. 

The Kiplinger Foundation 

The Kissinger Family Foundation 

L. B. Foster Company 

Lazard Freres & Co. 

Levi Strauss Foundation 

Loews Foundation 

Lutz and Carr 

Main Hurdman KMG 

Mapco Inc. 

Mars Foundation 

Maugus Manufacturing, Inc. 

McCaffrey and McCall, Inc. 

McLachlen National Bank 

Mitusi & Co. (U.S.A.) Inc. 

Morgan Stanley & Co. 

National Bank of Detroit 

Neiman-Marcus 

Norton Simon Inc. Social Responsibility Fund 

NS&T Bank 

The Oakleigh L. Thome Foundation 

Ogilvy & Mather 

The Oliver T. Carr Company 

Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation 

Peoples Drug Stores, Incorporated 

Pittsburgh Corning Corporation 

Pittsburgh National Foundation 

Pritzker Foundation 

Raleigh Stores Foundation 

Reading & Bates Corporation 

Restaurant Associates Industries, Inc. 

Rorer Group 

The Rouse Company 

Sandoz, Inc. 

B. F. Saul Company 

Scali, McCabe, Sloves Inc. 

The Scott & Fetzer Foundation 

Sheraton Foundation, Inc. 

The Silverstein Family Foundation 

The Southland Corporation 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 633 



Square D Foundation 

Squibb Corporation 

Stewart-Warner Foundation 

The Stouffer Corporation Fund 

Suburban Bank 

A. Sulka & Company 

SYMS Clothing Inc. 

Taft Broadcasting Company 

Technicolor, Inc. 

Thomas J. Lipton Foundation Inc. 

J. Walter Thompson Company Fund Inc. 

Touche Ross & Co. 

UOP Foundation 

USAir 

U.S. News & World Report 

Washington Fish Exchange, Inc. 

Weaver Bros., Inc. 

Weyerhaeuser Company Foundation 

The Young & Rubicam Foundation 

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 



Donors of Works of Art and Financial Support 



Mr. and Mrs. William Howard 

Adams 
William A. Albaugh 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward K. Aldworth 
Thomas Alexander III 
Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton 
The Honorable Walter H. and 

Lenore Annenberg 
Anonymous 

Mr. and Mrs. Isaac Arnold, Jr. 
The Art Lovers' League of Baltimore 
The Atlas Foundation 
Avalon Fund 
Margaret M. Bailey 
Mr. and Mrs. A. L. Ballard 
Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Bass 
Mr. and Mrs. Sid R. Bass 
Eugenio Battisti 

William E. and Kathleen T. Baxter 
Davitt S. Bell in memory of 

Constance Barber Mellon 
Ruth B. Benedict 
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin A. Bergman 
Siegfried and Josephine Bieber 

Foundation 
Arthur A. and Alison B. Birney 
The Brown Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. George R. Brown 
Robert Brown 
Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund 
Mildred G. Bryan 



Butterick Company, Inc. 

The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz 

Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. William N. Cafritz 
Amon G. Carter Foundation 
The Honorable and Mrs. Henry E. 

Catto, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. George V. Charlton 
Jean Chatelain 
Michael Clark 
Collectors Committee 
Catherine Mellon Conover 
Mr. and Mrs. B. J. Cutler 
G. DeVito 
John Dimick 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Ducommun 
Jacques Dufwa 
Alessandro and Mano d'Urso 
Y. Egami 

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Elkins, Jr. 
Mrs. Charles W. Engelhard 
David B. Epstein 
James R. Epstein 
Miles Epstein 
Richard A. Epstein 
Sarah Carianne Epstein 
Epstein Family Fund 
Frank and Jeannette Eyerly 
Thomas and Betty B. Evans 
Paul B. Fay, Jr. 
David Edward Finley 



634 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Margaret Eustis Finley 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Fisher 

Lawrence A. Fleischman 

Mrs. Julius Fleischmann 

Raquel Forner 

Mr. and Mrs. Ben J. Fortson 

Rita and Daniel Fraad 

The Fuller Foundation, Inc. 

Jo Ann and Julian Ganz, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert N. Ganz 

Charles R. Gardner 

Mrs. George Angus Garrett 

Anthony Geber 

GTE Corporation 

David Gensburg 

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty 

Katharine Graham 

Philip L. Graham Fund 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Griswold 

George Gund, III 

Leo S. Guthman 

Walter and Elise Haas Fund 

Mr. and Mrs. Prentis Cobb Hale 

Hallmark Educational Foundations 

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Hampton 

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes 

Mr. and Mrs. James Gordon Hanes III 

Mrs. Horace Havemeyer, in memory 

of her mother-in-law, Louisine W. 

Havemeyer 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hazen 
Mrs. Rudolf J. Heinemann 
Joanne King Herring 
Susan Morse Hilles 
H. R. Hitchcock 
Oveta Gulp Hobby 
Mrs. Ernest W. Hony 
Mrs. James Stewart Hooker 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward R. Hudson, Jr. 
International Business Machines 

Corporation 
R. L. Ireland III 
Everette James, Jr. 
Pupul Jayakar 

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr. 
Mrs. J. Seward Johnson 
Robert Wood Johnson Jr. 

Charitable Trust 
Ruth Carter Stevenson 
S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen, in honor 

of Charles Parkhurst 
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical 

Corporation 
Mr. and Mrs. George M. Kaufman 



Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Kellen 

Roger Kennedy 

The Honorable and Mrs. Randolph A. 

Kidder 
Marian King 
Seymour H. Knox 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod 
The Samuel H. Kress Foundation 
Loula D. Lasker Fund 
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore N. Law 
Joan Lees 

Mr. and Mrs. Judd Leighton 
Mr. and Mrs. Irvin L. Levy 
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis 
Edward R. MacCrone 

Charitable Trust 
Frank L. Mansell 
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Mayer in 

memory of Constance Barber 

Mellon 
Mrs. Robert B. Mayer 
Mr. and Mrs. John A. McCone 
Mrs. Eugene McDermott 
Arthur J. McLaughlin 
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation 
Constance B. Mellon 
Paul Mellon 

Dr. George and Dr. Lois de Menil 
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Van R. Milbury 
Charles Millard 
Mobil Foundation, Inc. 
Montgomery Sign 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Moncrief 
Ruth-Maria Muthmann 
The National Italian American 

Foundation 
Nancy Brown Negley 
Hugo V. Neuhaus, Jr. 
Mrs. P. Roussel Norman 
John O'Brien 
Georgia O'Keeffe 
William S. Paley 
Charles Parkhurst 
Javier Perez de Salazar y Solana 
Jay H. Perry, in honor of 

Susan Huffard 
Mary Lynn Perry 
Phillips Family Fund 
James Pipkin 
Pittway Corporation Charitable 

Foundation 
Kimiko and John Powers 
Mr. and Mrs. A. N. Pritzker 
Mr. and Mrs. Jay Pritzker 



Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution I 635 



Angela A. Puglisi 

General and Mrs. Dillman A. Rash 

Mr. and Mrs. Stewart A. Resnick 

Ann Michelle Roberts 

David Rockefeller 

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Rogers, Jr. 

Cornelius Van S. Roosevelt 

Alexandre P. Rosenberg 

Judy Rosenblum 

Harry E. Rothman 

Madeleine Haas Russell 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Salomon 

Lili-Charlotte Sarnoff, in memory of 

Robert and Martha von Hirsch 
Mrs. H. S. Schaeffer 
Mrs. Paul Scheerer 
Mr. and Mrs. Benno C. Schmidt 
Evelyn Sharp 
Joseph Sheppard 
Leonard L. Silverstein 
William K. Simpson 
Carolyn Skelly 
Regina Slatkin 

Dorothy J. and Benjamin B. Smith 
Joshua P. Smith 
Robert H. and Clarice Smith 
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Sowell 
George F. Spilenberg 
Mr. and Mrs. John Steiner 
H. Peter Stern 
John R. Stevenson 



Ruth Stokoe 

Mary Swift 

Countess Szembek-Milobenski 

Anne Burnett and Charles Tandy 

Foundation 
Mrs. Raymond F. Tartiere 
Time-Life Books, Inc. 
David Tunick, in honor of Charles 

Parkhurst 
Maurizio Valenzi 
Arthur and Charlotte Vershbow 
Lila Acheson Wallace 
Mr. and Mrs. F. Howard Walsh, Jr. 
Rachel Mellon Walton Fund of the 

Pittsburgh Foundation 
"The Washington Dossier" 
C. Malcolm Watkins 
P. Devers Weaver 
John C. and Joan Whitehead 
John Hay Whitney 
Mrs. John Hay Whitney 
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson 
Emile Wolf 

Mr. and Mrs. William Wood Prince 
Ian Woodner 
The Honorable and Mrs. Stanley 

Woodward 
George W. Wyckoff 
Mrs. Lowe Yost 
Mr. and Mrs. George M. Young 



636 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



APPENDIX 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution 
in Fiscal Year 1983 



As a trust instrumentality of the United States, the Smithsonian Institution 
has received federal support since it was established in 1846 to carry out the 
terms of James Smithson's will. Appropriated funds have long provided 
important additions to the trust funds, donated by Smithson and subsequent 
benefactors, to enable the Institution to carry out its responsibilities for 
research and exhibition of the national collections and maintenance of the 
valuable objects and records of science, history, and culture entrusted to the 
Institution. 

The Smithsonian's basic trust funds have provided the Institution with the 
elements of flexibility and independence essential to its creative, innovative 
growth. Trust funds traditionally have made possible many of the research, 
acquisition, and educational programs that are central to the Smithsonian's 
achievements. 

The Smithsonian is extremely grateful to the foundations, corporations, and 
individuals listed below for their gifts, bequests, and contributing member- 
ships in the Smithsonian Associates. If the name of any benefactor has been 
omitted from the following list, it is unintentional and in no way lessens the 
Smithsonian's appreciation. 



GIFTS AND BEQUESTS TO THE SMITHSONIAN 



Mrs. Enid A. Haupt 
The Pew Memorial Trust 
Dr. Arthur M. Sackler 



$1,000,000 or more 



$100,000 or more 



The American Scandinavian 

Foundation 
American Society of 

Anesthesiologists 
The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz 

Foundation 
The Coca-Cola Company 
The Commemorative Association for 

the Japan World Exposition 
The Dallah Establishment 
Mr. Gaylord Donnelley 
The Ford Foundation 
Mr. Arnold C. Greenberg 
H. J. Heinz II Charitable & Family 

Trust 
The Hillman Foundation 
International Business Machines 



Corporation 
The Japan Foundation 
W. Alton Jones Foundation, Inc. 
Estate of Mrs. Kei Kikuchi 
L. A. W. Fund 
Marriott Corporation 
Brooks and Hope B. McCormick 

Foundation 
Mobil Oil Corporation 
Philip Morris Incorporated 
Mr. Arthur Ross 

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr. 
Mary Horner Stuart Foundation 
Warner Communications Foundation, 

Inc. 
Yorktown International Bicentennial 

Committee, Inc. 



Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 637 



$10,000 or more 



The Ahmanson Foundation 

The Joe L. and Barbara B. AUbritton 

Foundation 
American Association of Zoo 

Veterinarians 
American Can Company Foundation 
American Express Foundation 
American Security Bank 
American Society of Association 

Executives 
American Telephone and Telegraph 
Anonymous 

Argonaut Securities Company 
Weiler Arnow Investment 
Atlantic Richfield Foundation 
State of Bahrain 
Mrs. Evelyn F. Bartlett 
The Barra Foundation, Inc. 
Bass Foundation 
Mr. Henry C. Beck, Jr. 
Estate of Charlotte V. Bergen 
Best Products Foundation 
The Bio-Energy Council 
Britain Salutes New York, Inc. 
Bronfman Foundation 
The Brown Foundation, Inc. 
Brown Group, Inc. Charitable Trust 
Miss Helen Buckner 
Mary Livingston Griggs & Mary 

Griggs Burke Foundation 
Cabot Corporation Foundation, Inc. 
The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz 
Foundation 

Citibank, N.A. 

Clark-Winchcole Foundation 

Mr. David Coffin 

Carr P. Collins Foundation 

Community Service Trust 

Continental Telecom, Inc. 

Dr. G. Arthur Cooper 

Arie and Ida Crown Memorial 

Peggy and Richard Danziger Fund 

Dart & Kraft Foundation 

The Dibner Fund, Inc. 

Duke University 

Earthwatch Expeditions, Inc. 

Edison Electric Institute 

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Elkins, Jr. 

Exxon Corporation 

The Fashion Group, Inc. 

Miss Gertrude Helen Fay 

Federation of Jewish Philanthropies 
of New York 



Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Gertner 

Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr. 

Goldsmith Foundation 

Alan C. Greenberg Foundation, Inc. 

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Greene 

Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin 

GTE Foundation 

Gudelsky Foundation 

Mr. Gordon Hanes 

C. E. Heath and Company 

John W. and Clara C. Higgins 

Foundation 
Holocaust Remembrance 

Foundation, Inc. 
Jewish Community Federation of 

San Francisco 
The Johnson's Wax Fund, Inc. 
Robert Wood Johnson, Jr. 1962 
Charitable Trust 

Sam Kane Beef Processors, Inc. 

Kekst and Company, Inc. 

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney 

The Seymour H. Knox Foundation, 
Inc. 

Mr. David Lloyd Kreeger 

Samuel H. Kress Foundation 

L. S. B. Leakey Foundation 

Mr. Richard Levy 

Lions Club International Foundation 

Longwood Foundation, Inc. 

The Henry Luce Foundation, Inc. 

Mr. Larue R. Lutkins 

MASCO Corporation 

Mr. T. Bragg McLeod 

Giles W. and Elise G. Mead 
Foundation 

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation 

Mr. Ruben F. Mettler 

Michigan Council for the Arts 

Mr. Arjay Miller 

Mr. Lester S. Morse, Jr. 

Nash Foundation 

National Geographic Society 

The NCR Foundation 

Mrs. Nancy B. Negley 

The Overbrook Foundation 

Pepsico Foundation, Inc. 

The Perkin Fund 

Mr. H. R. Perot 

Mr. Milton Petrie 

Petschek Foundation 

Ellis L. Phillips Foundation 

Frederick Henry Prince Trust 



638 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



The Radiological Society of North 

America, Inc. 
The Regis Foundation 
R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc. 
RGK Foundation 

Smith Richardson Foundation, Inc. 
The Riggs National Bank of 

Washington, D.C. 
Rite Aid Corporation 
The Rosenstiel Foundation 
Helena Rubenstein Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. B. Francis Saul II 
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc. 
Estate of Ottilie Schilling 
Sears, Roebuck and Co. 
Mrs. Sonia P. Seherr-Thoss 
Mr. Arthur A. Seeligson, Jr. 
Shell Companies Foundation, Inc. 
Simpson, Thacker & Bartlett 
The Southways Foundation 
Mrs. Edson W. Spencer 
Standard Chartered Bank PLC 
Estate of Donald H. Sultner 



The Swann Foundation for 

Caricature and Cartoon 
Dr. Hans Syz 
Mr. A. Alfred Taubman 
The Ruth and Vernon Taylor 

Foundation 
Tenneco Oil Company, Inc. 
Friends of Thailand, Inc. 
Time Incorporated 
Twentieth Century-Fox Corporation 
United Jewish Appeal of 

Greater New York 
United Jewish Endowment Fund of 

the United Jewish Appeal 
Ralph J. VVeiler Foundation 
Mrs. Bernard Weinberg 
Weyerhaeuser Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. John G. Wolbach 
The Women's Committee of the 

Smithsonian Associates 
World Wildlife Fund 
Zoological Society of San Diego 



$1,000 or more 

Mrs. Josephine Abercrombie 
Abroms Charitable Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. Harold L. Abroms 
Mr. Paul J. Adelson 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 
The Ahmanson Foundation 
Air Line Pilots Association 

International 
AKC Fund 

The Robert Alan Foundation, Inc. 
Miss Caroline R. Alexander 
Mr. and Mrs. E. Rudge Allen 
The Alvord Foundation 
Amax Foundation, Incorporated 
American Legion Post 88 
American Philanthropic Foundation 
American Philosophical Society 
American Radio Relay League, Inc. 
The American Scandinavian 

Foundation 
American Watchmakers Institute Inc. 
Amos Press 

Mr. William S. Anderson 
Dr. J. Lawrence Angel 
Anheuser-Busch Companies 
Anonymous 
Mr. Jeffrey J. Appleby 
The Arcadia Foundation 
The Asia Society, Inc. 



Associates Corporation of North 

America 
Atwood Foundation 
Mr. Don Baker 
The George F. Baker Trust 
Miss Bettina Bancroft 
J. M. R. Barker Foundation 
Miss Mary Barnes 
The Barra Foundation, Inc. 
The Bass Foundation 
Mr. Ernest Bel Fay 
The Bendix Corporation 
Beneficia Foundation 
Beneficial Foundation, Inc. 
Bergman Family Charitable Trust 
Mr. Barry Bingham, Sr. 
Mrs. Julia A. Bissell 
Blum-Kovler Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. William W. Bodine, Jr. 
The Boeing Company 
Mr. Ivan Boesky 
Mrs. Carol Bohannon 
Boise Cascade Corporation 
Mrs. John Bowles 
Viola E. Bray Charitable Trust 
British Aerospace, Inc. 
Eli and Edythe L. Broad Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. George Brown 
Mr. Slade Brown 



Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 639 



Bull's Head Foundation, Inc. 

Burlington Industries, Inc. 

Byron Protective Equipment 

Canadian Pacific 

Mr. Waller Carson, Sr. 

CBS Television Network 

Challenge Fund 

Clark Endowment Fund 

Communities Foundation of Texas, 

Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Coneway 
The Consolidated Natural Gas 

System 
Continental Services 
Denton A. Cooley Foundation 
Mr. James C. Cooper 
Mr. and Mrs. Lammot DuPont 

Copeland 
Mr. John Corroon 
Mr. Warren Covill 
Cowen and Co. 
Dr. and Mrs. E. L. Crain, Jr. 
The Crosley Foundation 
Mr. Robert J. Cruikshank 
Mr. and Mrs. Walker Davis 
Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan Day 
D.C. Commission on Arts and 

Humanities 
Diamond Shamrock Corporation 
Mr. David Dibner 
Mr. Pat Diclements 
Mr. Peter F. Drucker 
Mrs. Henry B. Dupont 
Les Eckert of Emett & Chandler 

Texas, Inc. 
Consolidated Edison 
Mr. Joel S. Ehrenkranz 
Dr. Eisenberg 

Estate of Lynette Forde Eltinge 
Mr. Ostrom Enders 
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Farb 
Fendrick Gallery 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Finer 
Mr. Phillip W. Fisher 
Fisher Theatre Foundation, Inc. 
Walter and Josephine Ford Fund 
Ford Aerospace & Communications 

Corporation 
Mr. Billy Francis 
Frankfurt Zoological Society 
Stein Freiler Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Furman 
Gannett Foundation 
The Garden Club of America 
Mrs. Johnson Garrett 



General Dynamics Corporation 
General Electric Company 
General Instruments Corporation 
Sumner Gerard Foundation 
Miss Joan Nathan Gerson 
Gordon P. and Ann G. Getty 
Gimprich Family Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Glassell 
Mrs. Bea Gold 

Henry L. Goldberg Foundation 
Miss Roberta Golding 
Mr. Richard W. Goldman 
The Phillip L. Graham Fund 
Monica and Hermen Greenberg 

Foundation 
The Lucile and Robert H. Gries 

Charity Fund 
Grumman Corporation 
Homer and Martha Gudelsky 

Foundation 
Gulf States Paper Corporation 
Gulf+ Western Manufacturing 

Company 
J. Gurwin Foundation, Inc. 
Mrs. Emma Swan Hall 
Hallmark Cards Incorporated 
Mr. Gary Hardison 
The E. F. Hauserman Company 
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert E. Hawkes 
Mr. Joseph Hawthorne 
Joseph H. Hazen Foundation, Inc. 
Hess Foundation 

The Henry L. Hillman Foundation 
The Clarence and Jack Himmel 

Foundation 
Mr. Gerald Hines 
Judge and Mrs. Roy H. Hofheinz 
Hogan Systems, Inc. 
Mr. Ralph Hopkins 
Hughes Aircraft Company 
Miss Suzanne Huguenin 
Mrs. Caroline H. Hume 
Idaho Art at the Smithsonian 
Illinois Arts Council 
International Association of 

Amusement Parks 
The Society for Investigative 

Dermatology Inc. 
The Irwin Family 
Itek Optical Systems 
International Union for the 

Conservation of Nature 
Dr. Joseph M. Jacobson 
Jesseksin Foundation 
Jewish Communal Fund of New York 



640 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Jewish Federation of Greater 

Houston, Inc. 
Johns Hopkins 
Mrs. Henry Clyde Johnson 
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson 
Eugenie and Joseph Jones Family 

Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Don D. Jordan 
Mr. Jack Josey 
The M. Kaplan Fund, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Katz 
The Katzenberger Foundation 
Mr. Edgar Kaufmann, Jr. 
Mr. Richard Keating 
Mrs. Marguerite H. Kellogg 
Miss Dona S. Kendall 
Mr. Kep Keplinger 
Mr. Warren B. King 
The Kiplinger Foundation, Inc. 
Klau Foundation 
Mr. George Klein 
Mrs. Donald Klopfer 
Robert Koch, Inc. 
Mr. David Lloyd Kreeger 
Laclede Gas Charitable Trust 
Dr. Catherine C. Lastavica Fund 
Mr. Donald E. Lefton 
Richard S. Levitt Foundation 
Mr. Irving Levy 
Lilly Endowment, Inc. 
Lindblad Travel, Inc. 
Mrs. Jean C. Lindsey 
Howard and Jean Lipman 

Foundation, Inc. 
Little Gallery 
Mr. George D. Lockhart 
Lockheed Missiles & Space 

Company, Inc. 
Miss Renee Logan 
Mr. and Mrs. Meredith Long 
Sam and Anna Lopin Foundation 
Mrs. Kathleen 5. Louchheim 
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Lovelett 
Miss Marilyn Lubetkin 
M/A-COM Development 

Corporation 
Clark MacGregor Revolving Fund 
Mad River Foundation 
Lt. General and Mrs. Sam Maddux, 

Jr. 
Mrs. Elizabeth H. Maddux 
The Magowan Family Foundation, 

Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manney & 

Daughter 



Phillip N. and Phyllis G. Margolius 

Martin Marietta 

Carl Marks & Co., Inc. 

Mr. James Maroney 

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas B. Marshall, 

Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Tom Marsh 
Mr. Ernest L. Martin III 
Dr. Brian H. Mason 
Mr. and Mrs. Harris Masterson 
P. J. and Darle Maveety 
William and Helen Mazer 

Foundation, Inc. 
Miss Mary E. McCarthy 
Mr. and Mrs. Sanford E. McCormick 
Mr. George C. McGhee 
Dextra Baldwin McGonagle 

Foundation, Inc. 
The McKee Foundation Inc. 
Katherine Mabis McKenna 

Foundation, Inc. 
Mrs. Maria Z. McRae 
Mr. Alexander R. Mehran 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon 
Menil Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. George Wall Merck 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Merriam 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Miller 
Milwaukee Federation 
Minnesota Historical Society 
Mr. and Mrs. Earl D. Mitchell 
Miss Marian Mitchell 
Mr. Carter R. Montgomery 
Mr. George Murray 
The Mutual Benefit Life Charitable 

Trust 
Mrs. Louise Nathanson 
National Railway Publication Co. 
National Space Club 
Native Imports 
The NCR Foundation 
NCR Corporation 
NEC Corporation 
Mr. Hal Needham 
Mr. Albert Nerken 
New York City Audubon Society 
The New York Community Trust 
The New York Institute for the 

Humanities 
New York Zoological Society 
Mrs. Muriel Kallis Newman 
Mr. Bruce W. Nichols 
Miss Laurie O'Connell 
The Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer 



Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 641 



Tane Orfebres, Inc. 
Outdoor Amusement Business, Inc. 
The Overbrook Foundation 
Owens-Corning Fiberglas 

Corporation 
Paper Group, Inc. 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. 
The Perkins-Elmer Corporation 
Perot Fund of the Communities 
Mr. John Perruzzi 
Mrs. George Peterkin 
Mr. Richard S. Petit 
Leslie Petranek Fine Art 
Mrs. Anne W. Phillips 
N. V. Phillips' Gloeilampenfabrieken 
Phillips Petroleum Foundation, Inc. 
Lionel I. Pincus Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Polinger 
Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope 
Prana Corporation 
Mrs. Sherman Pratt 
Prime Computer, Inc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Primus 
PTTI Planning Conference 
Mr. David S. Purvis 
Mr. Lloyd E. Raport 
Anne S. Richardson Fund 
Mrs. Sheila Riddell 
The Riggs National Bank of 

Washington, D.C. 
Dr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley II 
Miss Elyse Robbins 
Mr. and Mrs. Corbin J. Robertson 
Mrs. John D. Rockefeller III 
Rockwell International 
Mr. Ferdinand W. Roebling III 
Mr. Nat Rogers 
Billy Rose Foundation, Inc. 
Mrs. John Rosekrans 
The Mark Rothko Foundation, Inc. 
The Rouse Communications 

Company 
Mr. Harry Rubin 
Mrs. Madeleine H. Russell 
Sage Foundation 
Mr. and Mrs. Fayez Sarofim 
S. H. & Helen R. Scheuer Family 

Foundation, Inc. 
Irving and Helen Schneider 
Miss Arlene Schnitzer 
Sea-Land Industries, Inc. 
Seattle Art Museum 
Miss Rosemarie Sena 
Mr. George Seybolt 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro 



Miss Jane F. Sherman 

The Sidney Fund 

Miss Celia Siegel 

Simon Foundation, Inc. 

Singer Philanthropic Fund 

Skinner Foundation 

Mr. David E. Skinner 

Mr. Frank W. Skinner, Jr. 

Alan B. Slifka Foundation, Inc. 

The John Sloan Memorial Foundation 

Society of Women Engineers 

The Southways Foundation 

Mrs. Eloise A. Spaeth 

Speigel Family Foundation 

Mr. and Mrs. Speyer 

Mr. Malcolm Stamper 

Standard Brands Incorporated 

Mr. George R. Steiner 

Mr. and Mrs. Myron K. Stone 

Stanley and Polly Stone Foundation 

Allie L. Sylvester Fund Inc. 

The Taubman Company, Inc. 

Thiokol-Wasatch Division 

Miss Dorothy F. Thorne 

The Oakleigh L. Thorne Foundation 

Lois Comfort Tiffany Foundation 

Time-Life Books Inc. 

Mrs. Phyllis Tishman 

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Towning 

TRW Space and Technology Group 

TRW Defense and Systems Group 

Mrs. Barbara Tuchman 

United Education and Software 

United Catalysts, Inc. 

United Technologies 

UVB Foundation 

Estate of Evelyn Van Duyn 

Mrs. Robert D. Van Roijen 

Miss Harriet G. Vicente 

Dr. and Mrs. Anthony W. Viola 

Mr. Stephen Wainger 

Mr. and Mrs. Karl Wamsler 

The Washington Craft Show 

The Raymond John Wean Foundation 

The Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation 

Weinberg Family Foundation 

Mr. Sherwood Weiser 

Mr. Herbert C. Wells 

Nina A. Werblow Charitable Trust 

Mr. Jerome Westheimer 

Westminster Biologic 

Mrs. Annie B. Wetmore 

Miss Kathleen R. Wilmerding 

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson 

Harry Winston, Inc. 



642 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Mr. Parke Wright 

Miss Virginia Bloedel Wright 



Steven and Gail Burger and 
Roger Yorke 



$500 or more 

Agricultural and Industrial 

Corporation 
Mr. Malcolm P. Aldrich 
Amos Press Inc. 
Lourdes V. Andaya, M.D., P.C. 
Anonymous 
Mrs. Lucille B. Askin 
Atari Incorporated 
Mr. Louis C. Baker 
Mrs. Norma Baumgold 
Diane and Norman Bernstein 

Foundation, Inc. 
Mr. Barry Bingham, Sr. 
Mr. Leonard Block 
Miss Dorothea S. Blume 
Mrs. Dorothy N. Bowie 
Dr. and Mrs. Irving Burton 
Mr. Timothy W. Childs 
Mrs. Robert Johns Clark 
Dr. and Mrs. J. F. Gates Clarke 
Queene Ferry Coonley Foundation, 

Inc. 
Adolph Coors Company 
Mrs. J. Rorick Cravens 
Mrs. Priscilla Cunningham 
Mrs. Janice P. Daniel 
Miss Lucile Daum 
The Dover Fund, Inc. 
Harry J. and Claire S. Dworkin 

Foundation 
Efratom Inc. 

EG&G Technical Products Group 
Mr. Joel S. Ehrenkranz 
Mr. Rey Eilers 
Mrs. Elizabeth C. Faulkner 
Mrs. Evelyn H. Fellows 
First American Bank, N.A. 
Mr. Lawrence A. Fleischman 
William and Martha Ford Fund 
Miss Helena Fraser 
Frequency Electronics 
Miss Elizabeth N. Fuller 
Goldhirsch Special 
Mr. and Mrs. Aron S. Gordon 
Mrs. Mason L. Gordon 
Miss Elyse Grinstein 
Mrs. Elizabeth P. Guest 
Mr. Alfred C. Harrison, Jr. 
Miss Pauline L. Harrison 
Mrs. lola Haverstick 



Mrs. Gwendolyn A. Higgins 
Mr. Gerald D. Hines 
Remembrance of the Holocaust 

Foundation 
Hughes Aircraft Company Research 

Laboratories 
Hydro-Quebec 
Mr. Calin Lawton Johnson 
Mrs. Dorothy M. Johnson 
Mrs. George W. Johnson 
Mrs. Henry Clyde Johnson 
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson 
Mr. John L. Jones 
JVC Company of America 
Mrs. Dorothy I. Kemper 
Tibor Kerekes, Jr. 
Dr. and Mrs. Charles Kessler 
Mr. Robert P. Kogod 
Lakeside Foundation 
Mr. Alan D. Levy 

Litton Guidance & Control Systems 
Miss Janet Cook Loeb 
Mrs. Margro Reppert Long 
Mrs. Hin-cheung Lovell 
Mr. and Mrs. Wendell Lund 
Mrs. Robert T. Lundy 
James A. MacDonald Foundation 
Magnavox Advanced Products Co. 
Mr. Richard Manoogian 
Mr. William A. Marsteller 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Massar 
Professor Ernst Mayr 
Mrs. Helen J. McCray 
Miss Nan Tucker McEvoy 
Edward and Joan McGrath 
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander McLanahan 
Mr. T. Bragg McLeod 
Mrs. Maria P. McPhail 
The Mediators, Inc. 
Miles Petroleum Inc. 
Mrs. Janice Miller 
Mrs. Hope Ridings Miller 
Miss Marian S. Mitchell 
Mobil Foundation, Inc. 
Miss Elaine Pohi Moore 
Mr. Mitchell J. Nelson 
New York Carpet World 
NS&T Bank 
O'Donnell Foundation 
Occidental Petroleum Corp. 



Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 643 



Organization of Black Pilots 

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Oroshnik 

Miss Cornelia Watts Perry 

Mrs. Shirley Polykoff 

Mr. Gustavus D. Pope 

The Rau Foundation Inc. 

Mrs. Dorothy Rautbord 

Miss Elizabeth B. Rea 

Miss Jacquelin Rea 

James Renwick Collectors Alliance 

Miss Blanchette H. Rockefeller 

Mr. David Rockefeller, Jr. 

Rockwell International 

Mrs. Ednah Root 

Mr. Harry Rosani 

Miss Rodris R. Roth 

Mr. Michael Rothenberg 

Miss Mary F. Russell 

Salem Management Co. 

Mrs. Joan W. Saltzstein 

Miss Jean M. Seth 

Mr. and Mrs. Dudley C. Sharp 

Dr. and Mrs. Robert Silver 

Miss Caroline T. Simmons 

World Wide Sires, Inc. 

Mrs. J. Scott Smart 



Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth 

Mr. Maury Spanier 

Mr. Joel Spira 

Mr. Jack C. Staehle 

Stanley Enterprises, Inc. 

The Stebbins Fund, Inc. 

Mr. Elliott Stein 

Estate of Clare Timberlake 

Charles H. Tompkins Co. 

Tracer Inc. 

Miss Marietta Tree 

The Tilman Trotter Foundation 

Mr. Julius Trump 

Verian Associates 

Mr. and Mrs. John S. Warringer 

Mr. Joseph Weinstein 

Mr. and Mrs. Victor Wertz 

The Westport Fund 

Mr. H. Wade White 

John Wiley & Son, Publishers, Inc. 

Mr. Marion J. Wise, Jr. 

Mr. David S. Wolff 

Mr. Warren R. Woodward 

Miss Jean Davies Wright 

The Yale Club of Washington, D.C. 

Mr. Harry W. Zichterman 



SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES 
CONTRIBUTING MEMBERS 

The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National Associates support 
the Institution's work through annual contributions of $50, $100, $250, $500, 
and $1,000. 

The James Smithson Society was created in 1977 to encourage and recog- 
nize major gifts to the Smithsonian Institution. The Society, which is the 
highest order of the Contributing Membership in the Smithsonian Associates, 
is comprised of Annual and Life Membership categories. Extraordinary con- 
tributions to the Smithsonian Institution are recognized through the Society's 
Founder Medal award and Life Membership. 

The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges the generous support 
of the James Smithson Society and the Contributing Membership of the 
Smithsonian Associates. 



JAMES SMITHSON SOCIETY LIFE MEMBERS 



Mrs. Anni Albers 

Mr. Joseph V. Alhadeff 

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton 

Mr. David K. Anderson 

Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo 

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Bains 

Mrs. Joan Hay Baizerman 

Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow 



Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett 

Mr. and Mrs. Preston R. Bassett 

Mrs. Donald C. Beatty 

Mr. and Mrs. Clay P. Bedford 

Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin 

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Benton 

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry 

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald M. Best 

Dr. and Mrs. B. Narayana Bhat 



644 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Mr. Richard A. Bideaux 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner 

Mr. Leigh B. Block 

Mr. and Mrs. William Beaty Boyd 

Mr. Lee Bronson 

Mrs. David K. E. Bruce 

Dr. Ruth Dowling Brunn and 

Dr. Bertel Brunn 
Dr. and Mrs. George E. Burch 
Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein 
Mr. and Mrs. Barnet Burstein 
Mr. and Mrs. Hyman Burstein 
Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein 
Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin Hubbard 

Caldwell, Jr. 
Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Daniel Stone 

Campbell 
Mr. and Mrs. Lawson J. Cantrell, Jr. 
Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell 
Mr. Allan Caplan 
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Capps 
Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland 
Mr. Robert L. Coleman 
Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton 
Mrs. Howard F. Cook 
Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell 
Dr. and Mrs. E. J. Cunningham 
Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling II 
Mr. John R. Doss 
Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover 
Mr. Edward R. Downe, Jr. 
Dr. Dale B. Dubin 
Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. duPont 
Mr. Duncan L. Edwards 
Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans 
Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford II 
Mrs. Edwin Gaines Fullinwider 
Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt 
Mr. and Mrs. George Garfield 
Mr. and Mrs. Julius Garfield 
Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston 
Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson 
Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson 
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott 
Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould 
Mr. Jerome L. Greene 
Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Gross 
Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall 
Dr. and Mrs. Armand Hammer 
Mrs. Richard Harkness 
Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold 
Mrs. Enid A. Haupt 



Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen 
Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen 
Mrs. Francis Tracy Henderson 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Henning 
Mrs. Edith Mansfield Hills 
Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn 
Mrs. James Stewart Hooker 
Mr. Paul Horgan 
Dr. and Mrs. Howard Ihrig 
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus 
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner 
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman 
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk 
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Merrill Klein 
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler 
Dr. and Mrs. David Landau 
Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land 
Dr. Morris P. Leibovitz 
Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger 
Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon 
Mrs. Sara L. Lepman and 

Mr. Joshua M. Lepman 
Mr. and Mrs. John Levey 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey 
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis 
Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn 
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Logan 
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord 
Mrs. Louis Lozowick 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Magowan 
Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian 
Mr. John A. Masek 
Honorable and Mrs. Robert M. 

McKinney 
Mr. Vincent Melzac 
Mr. Jack L. Messman 
Mrs. Sandy Levey Miller 
Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Moldermaker 
Mrs. Edmund C. Monell 
Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H. Mosmann 
Mr. Fredric Mueller 
Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins 
Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray 
Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken 
Dr and Mrs. James Brooks Newbill 
Honorable and Mrs. R. Henry 

Norweb 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow 
Mrs. Rudolf Pabst 
Honorable and Mrs. G. Burton 

Pearson 
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger 



Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 645 



Mrs. John H. Phipps 

Mrs. John A. Pope 

Mrs. Abraham Rattner 

Mr. John Paul Remensnyder 

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Roberts 

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis H. Robison 

Honorable Martin J. Roess 

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers, Jr. 

Mrs. Helen Goodwin Rose 

Mr. Arthur Ross 

Mrs. Edgar L. Rossin 

Mrs. Howard J. Sachs 

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs 

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler 

Mr. and Mrs. Harry I. Saul 

Mr. and Mrs. Janos Scholz 

Honorable and Mrs. Hugh Scott 

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery 

Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith 

Mr. Raphael Soyer 

Mrs. Otto Spaeth 

Mr. and Mrs. Earl J. Spangler 

Mr. Stuart M. Speiser 

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Stack 

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack 

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack 



Dr. Richard F. S. Starr 

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky 

Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli 

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr. 

Dr. and Mrs. Hans Syz 

Mrs. Katherine S. Sznycer 

The Drs. Yen Tan 

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon L. Taylor, Jr. 

Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper 

Mrs. Edith Hale Thomas 

Mr. Richard W. Thomssen 

Mr. Bardyl R. Tirana 

Mrs. Juan Terry Trippe 

Mrs. Milton Turner 

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda 

Dr. and Mrs. Francis S. Walker 

Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang 

Mr. Richard W. Weatherhead 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Whiteley 

Mrs. Leonard E. Wilkinson 

Mr. Leonard J. Wilkinson 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams 

Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Withers 

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence C. Witlen II 

Mrs. David O. Woodbury 

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Woodward 

Mr. and Mrs. James Wu 

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol 



$1,500 JAMES SMITH50N SOCIETY ANNUAL MEMBERS 



Mr. Arthur G. Altschul 
Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson 
Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson 
Honorable Walter H. Annenberg and 

Honorable Lenore Annenberg 
Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett 
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Hood Bassett 
Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass 
Mr. and Mrs. Lucius D. Battle 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry C. Beck 
Mrs. Harry Payne Bingham 
Mr. William Blackie 
Honorable and Mrs. Robert O. Blake 
Mr. and Mrs. Winton M. Blount 
Mrs. William W. Bodine, Jr. 
Mrs. John Bowles 
Honorable and Mrs. Nicholas F. 

Brady 
Mr. and Mrs. Bob Brinkerhoff 
Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks 
Mr. Keith S. Brown 
Honorable and Mrs. Wiley T. 

Buchanan, Jr. 



Honorable and Mrs. Philip W. 

Buchen 
Mrs. Jackson Burke 
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Butner 
Mr. and Mrs. William D. Campbell 
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Carter, Jr. 
Honorable and Mrs. Henry E. 

Catto, Jr. 
Honorable and Mrs. Robert Home 

Charles 
Mr. and Mrs. Taylor Chewning, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Blair Childs 
Mr. and Mrs. James H. Clement 
Mr. David L. Coffin 
Honorable and Mrs. James M. Collins 
Mr. Joseph E. Connor 
Mr. Richard P. Cooley 
Mr. and Mrs. Gardner Cowles 
Mrs. Raymond E. Cox 
Mr. Marshall B. Coyne 
Miss Louise Crane 
Mr. John D. Crow 
Mr. and Mrs. John David Crow 



646 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III 
Mr. Arthur J. Curry 
Mr. Kent T. Cushenberry 
Mr. and Mrs. Justin Dart 
Honorable and Mrs. Shelby Cullom 

Davis 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Davis 
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley R. Day 
Mr. and Mrs. Morse C. Dial, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Di Bona 
Mr. Norman L. Dobyns 
Mrs. Kathryn W. Donaldson 
Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley 
Mr. and Mrs. John T. Dorrance, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Douglas 
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Elkins, Jr. 
Mrs. Eric Eweson 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Exley, Jr. 
Honorable and Mrs. William H. 

FitzGerald 
Mrs. John Clifford Folger 
Mr. and Mrs. John Dulin Folger 
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Gantt 
Mrs. George A. Garrett 
Miss Rachel Gay 
Mr. and Mrs. John T. Gibson 
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr. 
Mr. William B. Graham 
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Greene 
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway 
Mr. and Mrs. William H. Greer, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley Griffin 
Mr. and Mrs. Alton B. Grimes 
Mr. William A. Hall III 
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes 
Honorable and Mrs. W. Averell 

Harriman 
Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison 
Honorable and Mrs. Parker T. Hart 
Mr. Joseph H. Hazen 
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Healy III 
John and Lucia Heard 
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Heiskell 
Mrs. Olivia Antoine Helmeherbert 
Mr. Richard D. Hill 
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Holladay 
Mr. R. Bruce Hunter 
Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Ireland III 
Honorable and Mrs. John N. Irwin II 
Mr. and Mrs. George D. Jagels 
Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Johnson 
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson 
Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Jonsson 
Mrs. Garfield Kass 



Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Kaufmann 
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper, Jr. 
Honorable and Mrs. W. John Kenney 
Mrs. Virginia K. Kettering 
Honorable and Mrs. Randolph A. 

Kidder 
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney 
Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Kirby 
Honorable and Mrs. Philip M. 

Klutznick 
Mrs. S. Kent Legare 
Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey 
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred L. Loomis, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Love 
Jack and Betty Lou Ludwick 
Mr. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr. 
Mrs. Edward Macauley 
Lt. Gen. and Mrs. Sam Maddux, Jr. 
Mr. Edgar S. Mangiafico 
Honorable and Mrs. Leonard H. 

Marks 
Mr. and Mrs. J. Willard Marriott, Sr. 
Honorable and Mrs. William 

McChesney Martin, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick P. Mascioli 
Mr. David O. Maxwell 
Mr. and Mrs. Brooks McCormick 
Honorable and Mrs. George C. 

McGhee 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald McNeely 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. McNeil, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry S. McNeil 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry W. Meers 
Dr. Ruben F. Mettler 
Mr. and Mrs. Arjay Miller 
Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Mountain, Jr. 
Dr. Josephine L. Murray 
Mrs. Nancy B. Negley 
Honorable and Mrs. Paul H. Nitze 
Mr. and Mrs. John R. Norton III 
Cmdr. and Mrs. Lester E. Ogilvy 
Mr. and Mrs. George Ohrstrom 
Mr. and Mrs. Ricard R. Ohrstrom 
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Bruce Olds 
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Oliver 
Mr. M. G. O'Neil 

Honorable and Mrs. Daniel Parker 
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson 
Mr. and Mrs. C. Wesley Peebles 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott 
Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury 
Mr. and Mrs. Louis F. Polk 
Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Price 



Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 647 



Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Reed 
Mr. H. Smith Richardson, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Ridder 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter T. Ridder 
Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton Robinson 
Mr. Laurance S. Rockefeller 
Dr. and Mrs. Milton L. Rock 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Roth 
Honorable and Mrs. Kenneth Rush 
Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon 
Mr. and Mrs. B. Francis Saul II 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Seeligson, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frates Seeligson 
Lt. Gen. and Mrs. George M. 

Seignious II 
Mr. William McAlphin Shiland 
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard L. Silverstein 
Dr. and Mrs. Lionel J. Skidmore 



Mr. and Mrs. David E. Skinner 

Honorable and Mrs. Gerard C. Smith 

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond F. Smith 

Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer 

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm T. Stamper 

Miss Edith C. Steinbright 

Miss Marilyn L. Steinbright 

Mr. David A. Sutherlund 

Mrs. Clark W. Thompson 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland 

Mr. and Mrs. C. Woods Vest, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Wean, Jr. 

Mr. Leigh L. Weiner 

Mr. and Mrs. David Wintermann 

Mr. James O. Wright 

Mr. Parke Wright 

Mr. Jerome Zipkin 



$1,000 PATRON MEMBERS 

Mrs. L. M. Aroniss 

Mr. Laurence L. Champion 

Mr. James H. Curl 

Mr. Charles T. Fisher III 

Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith 

Mr. John G. Makauskas 

Dr. R. A. McReynolds 



Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert D. Mead 

Ms. Helen Ann Patton 

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Slawecki 

Dr. and Mrs. William A. Sullivan 

Mrs. Gardiner Symonds 

Mr. and Mrs. Jean L. Vaillant 

Mr. and Mrs. Warren K. Wilhelm 



$500 SUSTAINING MEMBERS 

Mr. W. Mike Adams 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Agger 

Mr. and Mrs. James E. Akins 

Mr. Thomas Aldredge 

Ms. Camilla D. Alexander 

Mr. G. J. Andrews 

Mr. and Mrs. R. S. Antes 

Mr. and Mrs. George A. Argabrite 

Ms. Mary M. Ashmore 

Mrs. Theodore Babbitt 

Mrs. W. P. Battell 

Mr. and Mrs. James R. Bemis 

Colonel and Mrs. George C. Berger 

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Bernett 

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Bettingen 

Mr. John L. Black 

Mr. John A. Blakemore 

Mr. Christopher T. Blayney 

Mr. and Mrs. Allen A. H. Blessman 

Dr. Joan Blondin 

Mr. and Mrs. David H. Blumberg 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Blum 

Dr. George P. Bogumill 

Mr. J. A. Boorman 



Dr. Harold M. Boslow 
Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell T. Bowie 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul A. Bowles 
Mrs. John W. Bowman 
Mr. and Mrs. George J. Brown 
Mr. and Mrs. Townsend Burden III 
Mrs. Poe Burling 
Dr. and Mrs. J. A. Burwell 
Mr. Nicholas Bush 
Dr. Cesar A. Caceres 
Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Garten 
Mrs. Harold W. Cheel 
Mr. and Mrs. Page B. Clagett 
Mrs. Louise Black Clark 
Mrs. Sylvia M. Clark 
Mr. and Mrs. Francis X. Coleman, Jr. 
Colonel J. M. Compton 
Mrs. Jack Coopersmith 
Mr. Curtis W. Cox 
Mr. James R. Cramblett 
Ms. Joyce Creamer 
Mr. Michael 5. Currier 
The Honorable and Mrs. Antonio 
F. A. Da Silveira 



648 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Captain and Mrs. R. L. Daniels 

Mr. and Mrs. F. Davis 

Mrs. Keith Davis 

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Dean 

Mr. Donald W. Douglas, Jr. 

Mr. Charles S. Draper 

Mr. and Mrs. David C. Dressier 

Mr. and Mrs. H. Stewart Dunn, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Iienee Dupont, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Emlet 

Mr. Richard England 

Dr. and Mrs. John Esswein 

Mr. and Mrs. John N. Eustis 

Mr. Julius Fleischman 

Mr. Henry W. Franklin 

Captain and Mrs. J. E. Galloway 

Mrs. J. Gardiner 

Mrs. Melvin Gelman 

Mr. Mario F. George 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Goldman 

Ms. Susan R. Goldman 

Mr. Stuart N. Goodman 

Mr. Ernest T. Guy 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick J. Haas 

Mr. Theodore J. Hadraba, Jr. 

Miss Elizabeth P. Hagen 

Mr. and Mrs. Kingsley W. Hamilton 

Ms. Helen Leale Harper, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Allen H. Harrison, Jr. 

Mr. Daniel P. Hays 

Mr. John W. Hechinger 

Mr. and Mrs. Felder F. Heflin 

Ms. Nona G. Herndon 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Hinton 

Mr. and Mrs. Edgar W. Holtz 

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Hoover 

Dr. and Mrs. N. S. Irey 

Mr. Edward Jonas 

Dr. Charles Joseph 

Mrs. George C. Keiser 

Mr. and Mrs. Harris L. Kempner, Jr. 

Mr. A. Atwater Kent, Jr. 

Mr. Patrick T. King 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Kirchheimer 

Mr. E. C. Kirkpatrick 

Ms. Elizabeth G. Kossow 

Mr. Albert Kramer 

Mr. Norman H. Kreisman 

Mr. E. C. Kubik 

Mr. Stanley J. Kuliczkowski 

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Lacock 

Ms. Agatha Larson 

Dr. Walter E. Lawrinson 

Mr. Charles W. Lee 

Mr. Melvin F. Lee 



Mrs. Halleck Lefferts 

Mrs. Jac J. Lehrman 

Mr. William Leier 

Mr. and Mrs. M. William Levy 

Mr. Edmund W. Littlefield 

Mrs. John E. Long 

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Maclntyre 

The Honorable Rebecca Mathews 

Mr. and Mrs. Terence McAuliffe 

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon W. McBride 

Mr. Thomas C. McCague 

Mr. James D. McClary 

Mr. E. J. McCormack, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Clayton McCuistion 

Mr. and Mrs. Marcus Mehtonen 

Mr. Paul Mellon 

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon K. Milestone 

Dr. William J. Mitchell 

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Monrose 

Mr. M. G. Morris 

Mr. William J. O'Connor, Jr. 

Mr. John F. Olmstead 

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald H. Patrick 

Mrs. Alys E. Phreaner 

Mr. George B. Pletsch 

Ms. Doris D. Poole 

Mr. and Mrs. John G. Powell 

Miss Helen G. Price 

Mr. and Mrs. Philip E. Ratcliffe 

Mr. Joseph A. Rice 

Mr. and Mrs. William W. Richardson 

Ms. Mary M. Roberts 

Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr. 

Mr. Anton H. Rosenthal 

Mr. Ray W. Rosevear 

Mr. and Mrs. Bennett Y. Ryan, Sr. 

Ms. Louise Sagalyn 

Mr. and Mrs. Thorndike Saville, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Morton W. Schomer 

Mr. C. W. Scott 

Mrs. Leonora D. Scott 

Mr. and Mrs. William W. Sharp 

Mr. and Mrs. M. Silverman 

Mr. Charles E. Smith 

Mr. and Mrs. Dean Smith 

Mr. Jonah Smith 

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh M. South 

Mr. and Mrs. John J. Stanton 

Mr. William R. Sullivan II 

Mrs. Arthur H. Sulzberger 

Dr. Arthur L. Thiele 

Ms. Arlene K. Thomashow 

Mr. and Mrs. Max E. Thompson 

Dr. John L. Thornton 

Mr. Charles Lee Turner 



Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 649 



Mr. John H. Turner 
Ms. Ann T. Van Rosevelt 
Mr. and Mrs. L. Von Hoffmann 
Ms. Nancy B. Wagner 
Dr. Joseph Walker 
Mr. Richard B. Wallace 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Waters 
Miss Lida Whitaker 
Colonel and Mrs. Grover C. 
White, Jr. 



Mr. and Mrs. Thomas L. Wiebe 

Mrs. Vivian Wildman 

Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Wilkinson, Jr. 

Mrs. John M. Willits 

Mrs. Louise W. Willson 

Mr. W. H. Wolf 

Mrs. S. T. Wyland 

Mr. and Mrs. Gary B. Yost 

Mr. Bernard J. Young 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Zitter 



$250 SPONSORING MEMBERS 

Mr. David E. Aaronson 

Mr. and Mrs. Byrle M. Abbin 

Ms. Drucilla Adams 

Mrs. Jobeth J. Adamson 

Dr. B. N. Addis 

Mr. David Agnew 

Mr. P. Albiez 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard T. Alexander, 

Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Danny Alexander 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald C. Alexander 
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Allbert 
Mr. Ethan Allen 
Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Allen 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Allen 
Mr. Thomas Roy Allen 
Ms. Marcia Y. Almassy 
Mrs. Carolyn Alper 
Mr. and Mrs. H. Max Ammerman 
Mr. and Mrs. David Anderson 
Mr. and Mrs. David R. Anderson 
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis B. Anderson 
Mr. F. C. Anderson 
Mr. John Anderson 
Colonel and Mrs. John S. Anderson 
Mrs. Myron Anderson 
Mrs. Paul S. Anderson 
Mr. Samuel D. Anderson 
Dr. Thomas W. Anderson 
Mr. Alfred C. Antoniewicz 
Mr. Nicolas A. Apgar 
Miss Marcia Ann Appel 
Mr. Earl S. Archibald 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter W. Arensberg 
Mr. Philip R. Armstrong 
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Atwood, Jr. 
Mr. G. Augustin 
Dr. Doris B. Autry 
Ms. Mildred Bach 
Mr. and Mrs. Norman G. Bach 
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Baer 
Lt. Col. Dorothy A. Baetcke 



Mr. Warren Baker 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Balfour 

Mr. and Mrs. C. L. Barbieri 

Mr. Michael Barczak 

Mr. Jean L. Barker 

Mr. and Mrs. Allen E. Barlow 

Mrs. Earl W. Barnes 

Ms. Janine F. Barre 

Mr. William Barstow 

Mr. and Mrs. Jay Barton 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Bash 

Ms. Ileana C. Basil 

Ms. Margaret R. Baudoin 

Mr. Ralph B. Beals 

Mr. Donald R. Bean 

Mr. John W. Bean 

Mr. W. H. Beardsley 

Mr. and Mrs. William L. Becker 

Mr. Brent L. Beckstead 

Mr. Charles Beer 

Mrs. Jack Bender 

Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Benedict 

Dr. and Mrs. Richard W. Benjamin 

Mr. C. R. Bennett 

Dr. Barry M. Berger 

Ms. Marie Bergmann 

Mr. and Mrs. George W. Bermant 

Mr. Samuel W. Bernheimer 

Ms. Margaret Bethany 

Mr. John A. Biddle 

Ms. Mary E. Biehusen 

Mr. E. A. Bigornia 

Mr. H. Harold Bishop 

Mr. Frederick Blachly 

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Eric Black 

Mrs. Page Blackstock 

Mr. and Mrs. Timothy N. Black 

Mr. C. N. Blair 

Mr. Harrye Blethroad 

Mr. Frank Bliss, Jr. 

Mrs. Edna F. Blum 

Mr. Fred W. Borrish 



650 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Ms. Barbara C. Bottarini 

Mr. and Mrs. Steven R. Bowen 

Colonel Donald S. Bowman 

Mr. Jay M. Boyd 

Mr. and Mrs. John Gordon Boyd 

Miss Eugenie R. Bradford 

Mrs. Julio J. Brancoli 

Mr. and Mrs. Calvin Brantley 

Ms. Ceraldine Braun 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Brechler 

Mr. and Mrs. Karl K. Breit 

Mr. and Mrs. Roy Bremerman, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Leo V. Brenna 

Mr. and Mrs. Clemens B. Bribitzer 

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen B. Brickel 

Mr. Robert L. Bridges 

Miss E. G. Brintnall 

Mr. Ronald C. Britt 

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Brodie 

Ms. Patricia L. Brown 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Brownson 

Mr. and Mrs. Gerard E. Brundige 

Mr. Glen W. Bruner 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick B. Bryant 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick P. Burgee 

Mr. James M. Burger 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Burka 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick F. Burks 

Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Burnham, Sr. 

Mr. and Mrs. James J. Burr 

Miss Edna-Lea Burruss 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Burton 

Miss Martha E. Burton 

Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Buttner 

Mr. E. T. Byram 

Mr. Boyd W. Caffey 

Mr. Carrol D. Cagle 

Mr. Donald E. Callahan 

Mr. G. W. Callender 

Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Campbell 

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth S. Carpenter 

Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Carrera 

Mr. Philip L. Carret 

Dr. and Mrs. Frank E. Carroll 

Ms. Patricia Carroll 

Colonel and Mrs. Douglas H. Carter 

Mrs. George A. Carver, Jr. 

Mrs. Robert A. Cashell 

Dr. and Mrs. Rocco Cassone 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Catania 

Dr. Ann B. Catts 

Mr. Richard S. Cayo 

Dr. William M. Chardack 

Mr. Harry R. Charles, Jr. 

Mr. Robert F. Charles 

Mr. Joel Chaseman 



Mr. and Mrs. John C. Chester 

Mr. John C. Cini 

Mr. H. Lawrence Clark 

Mr. and Mrs. Jerold L. Clark 

Mr. and Mrs. William A. Clark 

Mr. Harry Clauss 

Mr. William H. Cochrane 

Dr. and Mrs. David A. Cofrin 

Mr. S. Harold Cohen 

Mrs. William T. Coleman, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Cole 

Mr. T. Clyde Collins, Jr. 

Ms. Margaret S. Collins 

Ms. Virginia M. Collins 

Mr. and Mrs. Philip L. Collyer 

Miss Bertita E. Compton 

Mr. and Mrs. Louis C. Conant 

Miss Vivian G. Conklin 

Mrs. H. P. Connable 

Mr. Gerard Conn 

Mr. Ormand F. Cook 

Mr. Thomas Cook 

Ms. Mary L. Cooper 

Mr. and Mrs. George L. Cornell 

Mrs. Louis Corson 

Mr. Walter H. Corson 

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph J. Coselli 

Mr. Melvin E. Cox 

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Crabtree 

Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey Creede 

Ms. Margery Cridland 

Mr. W. Raymond Crosier 

Mrs. Richard S. Cross 

Mr. Joseph William Cuddy 

Mr. Charles S. Curran 

Mr. and Mrs. Mark H. Curtis 

Ms. Ida D. Cuthbertson 

Mrs. Richard M. Cutts 

Mr. Terry G. Dallas 

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Dalton 

Mr. Kevin B. Dalton 

Major Robert E. Dalton 

Mrs. Evelyn Y. Davis 

Mrs. Jerry R. Davis 

Mr. and Mrs. Tom L. Davis 

Mrs. Alva A. Dawson 

Mr. E. A. Dawson 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter L. Day, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. C. Woodford Dayton 

Mr. Robert M. Decker 

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F. Dellheim 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph P. Dellinger 

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S. Deming 

Dr. Hugh F. Demorest 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul F. Dickens, Jr. 

Mr. Hilton B. Dickerson 



Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 651 



Mr. Phil Dickey 

Mr. Raymond C. Diebel, Jr. 

Mr. T. A. Dietz 

The Honorable Douglas Dillon 

Mrs. W. M. Dillon 

Dr. and Mrs. Ernest M. Dixon 

Mrs. Walter W. Doescher 

Mr. and Mrs. Austin F. Dohrman, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Sumner A. Dole, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. H. R. Dolstra 

Mr. Sigmund R. Domanski 

Mr. and Mrs. D. A. Doran 

Mr. Alden Lowell Doud 

Mr. Karl Douma 

Mr. George A. Dragan, Jr. 

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Drage 

Mr. Russell F. Dubes 

Ms. Mary Jane C. Due 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas L. Dunn 

Dr. and Mrs. Vernon J. Dwyer 

Mr. and Mrs. Leroy Eakin 

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Earnest 

Mr. and Mrs. Lynn R. Eastridge 

Mr. Edward E. Eckert 

Mr. and Mrs. Mark K. Edmondson 

Miss V. A. Edwards 

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence A. Ehrhart 

Mr. Bertwin Einfalt 

Mr. Robert B. Eldridge 

Mrs. Leila Eley 

Mr. F. H. Ellenberger 

Mrs. Virginia Ellingsworth 

Mr. Ward H. Ellis 

Mr. and Mrs. George T. Elmore 

Mr. Ostrom Enders 

Colonel Charles O. Eshelman 

Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Estridge 

Mr. and Mrs. James G. Evans, Jr. 

Mr. W. M. Evans 

Mr. Henri Eyl 

Mr. John Farnam 

Ms. Marilyn Farrand 

Miss Patricia C. Farrell 

Miss Patricia Fenton 

Mr. Joseph C. V. Ferrusi 

Mr. and Mrs. R. D. Fesler 

Dr. Jack Fine 

Colonel Gerald Fink, USMC (Ret.) 

Mr. James P. Finn 

Mr. Thomas T. Finn 

Mr. and Mrs. S. Fischer 

Ms. Mary G. Fitzpatrick 

Mr. and Mrs. M. F. Flaherty 

Mr. Dennis M. Flemons 

Ms. Josephine E. Flood 

Mr. R. E. Fochtman 



Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Folkerth 

Mr. Albert A. Folop 

Miss Helen E. Forshier 

Dr. and Mrs. Giraud V. Foster 

Miss Alta Fowler 

Mr. Wilbur H. Friedman 

Mr. Cary J. Frieze 

Mr. William C. Frogale 

Mr. and Mrs. James E. Gadde 

Mr. and Mrs. Bob Gardner 

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm O. Garfink 

Mr. and Mrs. John Garney 

Mr. and Mrs. Carleton G. Gebhardt 

Mr. Edward K. Geehan 

Mr. Lee Geismar 

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Geller 

Dr. William H. Gerber 

Mr. Arthur F. Gerding 

Mr. Carl S. Gewirz 

Mr. Joseph P. Ghilardi 

Miss Helen W. Giacobine 

Ms. Frances E. Gibson 

Mr. Wallace E. Giles 

Mrs. Sara E. Gillis 

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald K. Gleason 

Mrs. C. Leslie Glenn 

Colone and Mrs. Julius Goldstein 

Mrs. Winifred L. Goodwyn 

Mrs. Louis R. Gordon 

Mr. Louis Gordon 

Mrs. Seabury S. Gould IV 

Mr. and Mrs. William Gouldsbury 

Mr. Harold D. Grant, Jr. 

Mrs. Earle Gray 

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Green II 

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Green 

Mr. Preston Greene 

Mr. and Mrs. Peter B. Greenough 

Ms. Rosemary Green 

Mr. Seymour D. Greenstone 

Mrs. Joseph B. Gregg 

Mr. Barron K. Grier 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas N. Grigg 

Mr. William A. Grimes 

Ms. Audrey J. Groene 

Mr. and Mrs. William P. Groves 

Ms. Helena Gunnarsson 

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Guttag 

Mr. Marc Haas 

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander S. Haig 

Mrs. Najeeb Halaby 

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell L. Hall 

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Halpern 

Miss Anne E. Hamill 

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth A. Hamman 

Mr. and Mrs. B. C. Hammock 



652 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Mr. H. H. Hamra 

Mr. Bernard J. Hansen 

Ms. Morella R. Hansen 

Mr. Charles C. Hansult 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul O. Harder 

Mr. Hardy Hargreaves 

Dr. Robert A. Harper 

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Harris, Jr. 

Mr. Robert C. Harris 

Dr. Michael J. Hartman 

Mrs. Robert K. Hartwick 

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald W. Haughton 

Mr. Mones E. Hawley 

Dr. John T. Hayes 

Dr. Kenneth P. Head 

Miss Annabelle Heath 

Ms. Linda A. Heckman 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Hector 

Mr. Frederick H. Heierding 

Mr. H. C. Heldenfels 

Mr. Jeffrey L. Hendry 

Mrs. Catherine W. Herman 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul C. Herndon 

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Hewitt 

Mr. William L. Higgins 

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Hines 

Mrs. J. H. Ward Hinkson 

Mr. Joseph U. Hinshaw 

Mrs. Robert H. Hoexter 

Mr. Andy W. Hogan 

Dr. and Mrs. Raymond T. Holden 

Mr. Nick Holland 

Mr. and Mrs. Franklin P. Holman 

Ms. Ann Hopping 

Miss Jennifer J. Horinek 

Mr. and Mrs. William E. Horn 

Mr. J. King Horner 

Mr. John K. Hoskinson 

Mrs. Ruth Housek 

Dr. and Mrs. John H. Hoyert 

Mr. Samuel G. Hubbard 

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Hughes 

Mr. William R. Hunter 

Mr. Claude D. Hurd 

Ms. Eleanor Ingman 

Admiral and Mrs. Walter D. E. Innis 

Mr. John Ippolito 

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Ireson 

Mr. and Mrs. R. D. Isinger 

Mr. Rollo E. Jacobs, Jr. 

Dr. John R. Jacoway 

Mr. John M. Jacquemin 

Dr. and Mrs. Jonathan David Jaffe 

Mr. Sidney A. Jaffe 

Mr. Reinhardt H. Jahn 

Mr. William P. Jambor, Jr. 



Mrs. W. N. Jardine 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Jaske 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Jenks 

Mr. J. J. Jeresek 

Colonel Alfred H. Johnson 

Ms. Diane S. Johnson 

Mr. Charles Johnston 

Dr. and Mrs. James V. Jolliff 

Mr. G. Quinton Jones, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Jones, Jr. 

Mr. Charles W. Jones 

Miss Charlotte Jones 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Jones 

Mr. and Mrs. Ted Jones 

Mr. Thomas O. Jones 

Mr. Thomas A. Jordan 

Dr. N. Jorgenson 

Dr. Herbert H. Joseph 

Dr. and Mrs. S. C. Kaim 

Mr. John M. Kalbermatten 

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne W. Kaley 

Admiral and Mrs. John D. H. Kane 

Dr. John J. Kane 

Mrs. R. H. Karns 

Dr. and Mrs. Richard A. Kaslow 

Mr. Walter Keating 

Major John R. Keiper, Jr. 

Ms. Juanita C. Kelly 

Dr. and Mrs. George A. Kelser, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. George P. Kendall, Jr. 

Ms. Anna Marie Kent 

Mr. Ralph A. Kerber 

Mr. Walter H. Kidd 

Ms. Eleanor Kingsley 

Mr. George H. Kinkel 

Mr. and Mrs. Philip C. Kirby 

David P. Kirschbaum 

Mr. and Mrs. K. W. Klages 

Mr. Kenneth W. Klein 

Mrs. J. K. Knee 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Knight 

Ms. Diana Sinkler Knop 

Ms. Anne Knowles 

Mr. Steven R. Koman 

Mr. and Mrs. John D. Kotler 

Mr. Irving Kreisberg 

Ms. Janet Anastacia Krombar 

Mr. and Mrs. M. J. Kuff 

Mr. and Mrs. W. O. Kurtz, Jr. 

Miss Martha Ladd 

The Honorable and 

Mrs. Marion Ladwig 
Mr. John A. Laird 
Mr. Garry Lambert 
Mr. Gary A. Lane 
Mr. Sanford A. Langworthy 



Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 653 



Mr. Sperry Lea 

Mr. C. W. Ledebur 

Ms. G. E. Lemos 

Ms. Rachael Lemus 

Mrs. Ethelynne H. Leonard 

Mr. Richard J. Leonard 

The Honorable William Leonhart 

Mrs. Lawrence 5. Lesser 

Mr. Daniel W. Leubecker 

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Levin, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest E. Lewis 

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred B. Lichtenstein 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Lindberg 

Mr. Frank W. Lindenberger 

Mr. Gary Dean Lindsay 

Ms. R. Lindstrom 

Mr. Robert F. Lint 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. List 

Mr. Clyde R. Littlefield 

Mr. David H. Lloyd 

Dr. R. H. Lloyd 

Mr. Walter H. Long, Jr. 

Mr. William A. Long 

Mr. Joseph R. Lorence 

Miss Doris J. Lothrop 

Mr. P. H. Loughlin III 

Mr. Bart W. Lovins 

Mr. Charles L. Lowery 

Mr. La Rue R. Lutkins 

Mr. Maurice B. Lynch 

Mrs. Alexander F. MacDonald 

Ms. Marian S. Maclntyre 

Ms. Ellen B. MacNeille 

Mr. and Mrs. A. Martin Macy 

Mrs. Louise Mann Madden 

Mr. and Mrs. Rex A. Maddox 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Maffitt 

Mrs. James T. Magee 

Mr. Philippe L. Maleval 

Mr. E. Mandac 

Mr. Duane F. Marble 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Margus 

Mr. Edward Marks 

Mr. F. E. Mars, Jr. 

Mr. 5. C. Marshall 

Mr. George H. Marston 

Mr. Alfred 5. Martin 

Mrs. Elizabeth Martin 

Mr. M. S. Martin 

Dr. Robert B. Matheny 

Dr. and Mrs. Glenn B. Mather 

Mrs. Elbert G. Mathews 

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias 

Lt. Col. and Mrs. Glenn W. Mayer 

Dr. William B. May 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Mazza 



Mr. James L McAuliff 

Mrs. Violet McCandlish 

Mr. Jack H. McCreery 

Mr. Brian L. McDonald 

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy 

Ms. Nancy J. McGinness 

Mr. James P. McGranery, Jr. 

Dr. and Mrs. John J. McGrath 

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth C. McGuiness 

Mr. and Mrs. Philip L. McHugh 

Mr. John S. Mclnnes 

Dr. and Mrs. W. E. Mclntyre 

Dr. and Mrs. Douglas W. McKay 

Mrs. G. H. McKee 

Mr. Arthur J. McLaughlin 

Mrs. W. J. McNeil 

Mr. Ralph Eugene McWhorter 

Mr. Ted S. Merrill 

Mrs. Kathryn Mervenne 

Mr. Paul D. Meyer 

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel H. Meyers 

Mr. Dominic L. Meylor 

Ms. Helen J. Migh 

Ms. Joan H. Militzer 

Mr. and Mrs. E. Kirkbride Miller 

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert E. Miller 

Mr. and Mrs. James T. Miller 

Mr. Malcolm Miller 

Mr. Warren G. Miller 

Mr. and Mrs. James T. Milne 

Mr. and Mrs. Glenn J. Mischel 

Mr. and Mrs. George B. Mitchell 

Mr. Dexter N. Mohr 

Mr. and Mrs. Leo Molinaro 

Mr. James A. Montanye 

Colonel and Mrs. E. W. Moody 

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Cotton Moore 

Mrs. E. Moore 

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Moore 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Moore 

Mr. Michael A. Moran 

Mrs. Theda A. Moreno 

Mr. Shane Moriarity 

Mr. Charles W. Morris 

Dr. W. Dickson Moss III 

Mr. Philip M. Mount 

Mr. and Mrs. Carl J. Mulert, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. James Mulshine 

Mr. Jerry L. Mungo 

Dr. and Mrs. John C. Munson 

Mr. and Mrs. James Murphy 

Mr. John M. Murray 

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence S. Myers, Jr. 

Miss Lucile Myers 

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen H. Nash 

Mr. Robert H. Neff 



654 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Dr. Heidar Nemat 

Ms. Nancy C. Nersesian 

Mr. and Mrs. William Nevvlin 

Mr. Stuart C. Nichols 

Mr. Robert H. Nicholson 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Niles 

Mr. Carl F. Norden 

Mr. and Mrs. Giles R. Norrington 

Mr. Milton G. Nottingham, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Michael P. Novelli 

Ms. Eileen O'Brian 

Mr. Robert C. Ochsner 

Ms. R. O'Hara 

Mr. Carl L. Olson 

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Olyniec 

Mrs. John Omaster 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Orben 

Mrs. Arthur E. Orloff 

Mr. and Mrs. E. G. Osborne 

Mr. Newton G. Osborne 

Ms. Christine C. Osmun 

Mr. James C. Overholt 

Mrs. Henry S. Owens 

Mr. Arnold E. Palmer 

Dr. and Mrs. Michael N. 

Papadopoulos 
Commander Everett A. Parke 
Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Parker 
Dr. and Mrs. J. R. Parsons 
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard E. Pasek 
Dr. and Mrs. E. Passamani 
Mr. William Patterson 
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Patton, Jr. 
Dr. M. P. Paularena 
Mr. James R. Peace 
The Peacock Foundation 
Mr. Raymond Pearlstine 
Mr. C. L. Pecchenino 
Mr. Louis Peller 
Mrs. Doris T. Pendleton 
Mr. Edmund Pendleton 
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Penick 
Mr. Clarence Pennington 
Mr. David T. Perkins 
Dr. Philip L. Perkins 
Mr. J. Perruzzi 
Ms. Dorothy F. Perry 
Mr. Gene Perry 
Miss Jacqueline Perry 
Mr. James P. Perry 
Ms. Samantha A. Peterson 
Dr. J. C. Petricciani 
Mr. John W. Pfeiffer 
Mrs. Jackman Pfouts 
Mr. Joseph J. Phelan 
Mr. W. M. Piatt III 



Mr. and Mrs. James S. Picken 

Ms. Jacqueline Pierce 

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence B. Pike 

Mr. Welch Pogue 

Mr. Paul E. Pontius 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Poor 

Ms. Janice Popp 

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight J. Porter 

Mr. Louis Potkonski 

Miss Amy H. Pound 

Dr. and Mrs. W. F. Pounds 

Mrs. Anne D. Pozzi 

Mr. Charles P. Price 

Mr. and Mrs. Melville J. Price 

Miss Jeanne Priester 

Dr. and Mrs. Jerold Principato 

Mr. and Mrs. John E. Purcell 

Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Purnell 

Mr. N. B. Randall 

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony J. Raso 

Mr. Michael F. Reagan 

Mr. Philip D. Reed, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Reese 

Mr. and Mrs. Albert P. Reidhead 

Dr. Michael J. Reilly 

Mr. Frank C. Reynolds, Jr. 

Mrs. Frank M. Reynolds 

Mrs. H. L Rhine 

Mr. and Mrs. John V. Rhoads 

Mr. Arthur H. Rice 

General and Mrs. Ralph J. 

Richards, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles S. Richards 
Ms. Melissa J. Richens 
Mrs. Richard Riddell 
Dr. Monira K. Rifaat 
Dr. J. Jerome Rinaldi 
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Rixse, Jr. 
Mr. Lew Roberts 
Ms. Nancy J. Robertson 
Admiral W. D. Robertson 
Mr. Walter P. Robinson, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ray Robinson 
Mr. D. Roesler 
Mrs. Claire V. Rogers 
Mr. Thomas D. Rogers 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Root 
Mr. Charles H. Rose 
Mr. Kurt E. Rosinger 
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence J. Ross 
Ms. Janice K. Rothlauf 
Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Rowe 
Mr. and Mrs. Josiah P. Rowe 
Drs. Philip and Randi Rubovits-Seitz 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur R. Rule 
Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Russo 



Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 655 



Mr. and Mrs. Jack B. Ryan 

Mr. Wayne D. Rydberg 

Mr. R. A. Sadler 

Mr. and Mrs. Wesley R. Sandell 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Sander 

Mr. and Mrs. Cameron H. 

Sanders, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Marcus A. Sandleman 
Mr. Milton C. Sappe 
Mrs. Stanley J. Sarnoff 
Mr. David Saunders 
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Sawick 
Mr. James P. Scannell 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Schaffer, Jr. 
The Honorable and 

Mrs. James H. Scheuer 
Miss Matilda P. Schlicht 
Mr. Anthony A. Schoendorf 
Mr. and Mrs. J. Schroeder 
Dr. and Mrs. James Schwartz 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Scott 
Mr. Richard J. Sekerka 
Mr. and Mrs. Harold J. Selinsky 
Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Selk 
Mrs. Catherine H. Sells 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Seubert 
Shaw Investment 
Mr. and Mrs. Gerard E. Shelton 
Mr. and Mrs. George E. Sherman 
Mr. Theodore J. Shively 
Mr. Rufus Shivers 
Mr. and Mrs. Abraham Shore 
Mr. Robert H. Short 
Dr. Stefan Shrier 
Mr. Roy Shrobe 
Mr. and Mrs. Milton L. Shurr 
Mr. W. W. Sidney 
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Silberman 
Dr. A. E. Silver 
Mrs. John Farr Simmons 
Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur M. Sims, Jr. 
Mr. A. R. Jarvis Sinclair 
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Singer 
Mrs. E. Slack 

Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Small 
Mrs. Beth D. Small 
Mr. Benjamin M. Smith, Jr. 
Ms. Ella E. Smith 
Mr. James B. Smith 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Smith 
Mr. Zachary Smith 
Mr .and Mrs. Robert G. Sobeck 
Mr. Richard P. Solloway 
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Sottile 
Mr. and Mrs. Denny Stam 
Mr. Ellwood C. Stang 



Mr. Gary Staples 

Admiral and Mrs. M. H. Staring 

Lieutenant Allan R. Starkie 

Mr. Stuart L. Stauss 

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Steib 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Stephens 

Mr. W. Clington Sterling III 

Mr. William C. Sterling, Jr. 

Dr. and Mrs. T. Dale Stewart 

Mr. and Mrs. William O. Stewart 

Mr. W. K. Straley, Jr. 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Stratton 

Mrs. Hamilton S. Styron 

Miss Sally A. Sullivan 

Ms. Mary Swanson 

Dr. Russell Swanson 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Swart, Jr. 

Mrs. Phelps H. Swift 

Mr. and Mrs. Richard O. Swim 

Mr. Paul C. Symmons 

Mr. Albert Szvetics 

Mr. and Mrs. Leland E. Talbott 

Mr. John Taylor 

Mrs. May Taylor 

Mrs. Richard R. Taylor 

Mr. Joseph M. Tessmer 

Mr. Alan Thebert 

Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Therrell 

The Thiry Foundation 

Mr. Allen D. Thomas 

Mr. Holcombe H. Thomas 

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Thomas 

Mr. Beverly T. Thompson 

Mrs. Gilda B. Thompson 

Mr. W. Thompson 

Mrs. Margot K. Thomson 

Mr. J. Cockrell Thornton 

Mrs. B. W. Thoron 

Mrs. Vincent M. Throop 

Mrs. Alfred Tietze 

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip E. Tiger 

Mr. Neil Tillotson 

Mr. Richard Timmons 

Mrs. Clarence O. Tormoen 

Mrs. William C. Tost 

Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur L. Townsend 

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Tralla 

Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Traub 

Mr. George S. Trees, Jr. 

Mrs. James N. Tulloh 

Mr. Robert L. TuU 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Turner III 

Mrs. Jean A. Twitchell 

S. J. Ungar Foundation 

Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Valencourt, Jr. 

Ms. Caroline E. VanMason 



656 / Smithsonian Year 1983 



Ms. Natalie D. Venneman 

Ms. Margaret S. Vining 

Mr. Theodore H. N. Wales 

Mr. and Mrs. Carl Walske 

Mr. and Mrs. Frank S. Walters 

Mrs. Harry Wanger 

Miss Carolee J. Ward 

Mr. and Mrs. Gary W. Ware 

Mr. George E. Watson 

Mr. V. Phillips Weaver 

Ms. Mary E. Weber 

Mr. and Mrs. Nathan Wechsler 

Mr. and Mrs. Eric W. Weinmann 

Dr. H. T. Weinstein 

Dr. and Mrs. Alan Weintraub 

Mr. and Mrs. Jack W. Wells 

Mr. O. B. Werntz 

Miss Hilda Wexler 

Mr. H. E. Whalen 

Ms. Annette P. Whatley 

Mr. and Mrs. George Y. Wheeler III 

Ms. Adelia C. Wheeler 

Mr. Dennis A. Wheeler 

Dr. John P. Whiteley 

Mr. Peter C. White 

Mrs. Catherine L. Whitsitt 

Mr. and Mrs. P. Widener 



Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth R. H. 

Williams, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis W. Williamson 
Mr. J. Reid Williamson 
Ms. Pauline E. Williman 
Mr. David C. Willmon 
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Willoughby 
Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry T. Wilson 
Mr. and Mrs. Kendall W. Wilson 
Ms. Harriet L. Wilt 
Ms. Louise Woerner 
Mr. Peter K. Wolff, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Payson Wolff 
Dr. and Mrs. Allan Y. Wolins 
Mr. David L. Wood 
Mr. William S. Woods 
Mrs. Jane Ludwig Worley 
Ms. Judith C. Wright 
Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Wurz 
Mr. David E. Wyman, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick B. Wynn 
Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Yaney 
Mr. and Mrs. Gregory B. Young 
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Zimmerman 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Zorc 
Mr. and Mrs. Barry Zorthian 



Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution I 657 



APPENDIX 10. 



Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution 
in Fiscal Year 1983 





Smith- 
















sonian 










National 






Institu- 


Arts and 


Natural 


Air and 


Freer 


Museum of 






tion 


Industries 


History 


Space 


Gallery 


American 




Month 


Building 


Building 


Building 


Building 


of Art 


History 


Totals 


October 1982 


75,771 


89,934 


338,991 


679,595 


29,318 


288,118 


1,501,727 


November 


58,132 


71,320 


342,971 


541,897 


22,438 


260,440 


1,297,198 


December 


44,150 


53,828 


273,650 


368,645 


16,412 


216,949 


973,634 


January 1983 


32,734 


41,906 


192,827 


304,139 


13,702 


148,904 


734,212 


February 


33,492 


41,321 


247,976 


284,717 


11,389 


167,536 


786,431 


March 


77,387 


92,150 


493,729 


662,147 


23,022 


354,858 


1,703,293 


April 


125,099 


130,407 


828,456 


1,195,635 


29,665 


684,439 


2,993,701 


May 


89,985 


111,007 


662,476 


1,125,010 


22,739 


584,213 


2,595,430 


June 


115,438 


116,178 


685,424 


1,160,636 


25,404 


684,379 


2,787,459 


July 


131,498 


125,810 


694,889 


1,430,123 


26,457 


662,024 


3,070,801 


August 


110,298 


111,363 


631,504 


1,326,224 


29,936 


680,114 


2,889,439 


September 


56,442 


58,000 


257,513 


758,883 


19,498 


317,064 


1,467,400 


TOTALS 


950,426 


1,043,224 


5,650,406 


9,837,651 


269,980 


5,049,038 


22,800,725 




American 






Anacostia 




Museum 






Art and 






Neigh- 


Cooper- 


of 






Portrait 


Renwick 


Hirshhorn 


borhood 


Hewitt 


African 




Month 


Gallery 


Gallery 


Gallery 


Museum 


Museum 


Art 


Totals 


October 1982 


33,927 


13,915 


81,006 


104 


17,681 


4,874 


151,507 


November 


33,013 


14,012 


74,286 


1,315 


12,980 


6,489 


142,095 


December 


27,816 


12,612 


54,133 


1,526 


10,957 


9,104 


116,148 


January 1983 


25,375 


13,117 


49,018 


1,799 


8,825 


5,661 


103,795 


February 


43,539 


9,475 


39,774 


2,567 


10,062 


6,204 


111,621 


March 


44,116 


11,938 


87,707 





11,453 


8,571 


163,785 


April 


31,860 


11,865 


120,202 


849 


34,142 


5,234 


204,152 


May 


30,837 


10,615 


127,913 


1,923 


40,127 


8,229 


219,644 


June 


31,588 


8,746 


118,209 


1,694 


31,895 


6,272 


198,404 


July 


34,301 


14,395 


123,994 


2,842 


15,533 


6,006 


197,071 


August 


32,145 


13,439 


111,355 


1,695 


10,697 


5,407 


174,738 


September 


28,715 


15,318 


65,189 


896 


12,368 


3,187 


125,673 


TOTALS 


397,232 


149,447 


1,052,786 


17,210 


216,720 


75,238 


1,908,633 


Grand Total 














24,709,358 



Note : Not reflected in the above tabulation are an estimated 3,300,000 visitors to the National 
Zoological Park in fiscal year 1983. The very nature of the park, with its indoor ancf 
outdoor exhibits and its several vehicular and pedestrian entrances, makes it impos- 
sible to obtain exact visitor statistics. To overcome this difficulty, NZP has developed 
a reliable sampling system, which was used to determine this fiscal year 1983 estimate. 



658 I Smithsonian Year 1983 



